ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17592	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask you a few questions, as president of the National Assembly. I am interested – how is it possible, with such ease for months, and especially in recent weeks, that you have suffered the evil that the executive government, headed by Boris Tadic, and through the puppetized government of the Republic of Serbia and his cabinet, is working for the National Assembly? You could see the last days and proposals of some laws, regulations, which, by the executive authority, are trying to impose certain behaviour on certain institutions that come directly from the National Assembly and have nothing to do with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's in a package of these regulations. I'm interested in how is it possible for you to perform that function that you perform without answering at any time, as the first among the equals here, when it comes to the humiliation of the National Assembly? How is it possible that you have not reacted to all these weeks when a hack has been led in certain media against the National Assembly in general, regardless of what the National Assembly is burdened with when it comes to internal relations, so before the conduct of one group of MPs, which the ruling majority finds incorrect, directly related to the behaviour of the ruling majority and the perception of the atmosphere in the National Assembly, created by the ruling majority in their heads and transferred to the work of the National Assembly? Second question. Does it occur to you, as chairman of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, that you call this committee? You know we've asked you questions many times – are you aware that it's 31. 12. In 2008, did the deadline expire to comply with all regulations with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the Constitutional Law? What does it occur to you to do about it? Do you think you should call the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and have this Committee on Constitutional Affairs conclude something on the subject and recommend that the two-thirds majority of the National Assembly amend the Constitutional Law in that part and extend the deadline? What do you think you're gonna do? When will the Law on the National Assembly be passed? You know there's a bill of law. If one part of the MPs is not satisfied with what it says in that law, there is a way that it will change with the amendments. That law can and should be in the process. What did you do against my question the last time I asked, when I said the opposition's proposals, first of all the DSS, and that many of the laws we've passed over the past months, were not found as laws on the list in the procedure or on the website of the National Assembly? It hasn't changed yet, until this morning. You can go, turn on the computer and see what the Web presentation of the National Assembly looks like. What does that look like? Do you even know how many laws should be brought into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Can you answer the number right now? What are you going to do with independent institutions after all? I'm not talking about who gets paid. When there's a crisis, we all need to tighten the belt, including all the other institutions. Do you think that, in front of this National Assembly, you should do something to defend the independent institutions that this assembly has chosen, such as the NBS, governor and others, from the insolence of the executive authority on them, in the way it is now done? Because what does that prove? That the president of the state is a god and a beating, and that Parliament is worth nothing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17593	Mr. Aligrudic, the Assembly has co-operation with other instance of government, and decisions by the assembly majority are also an official message to all Serbian authorities and citizens about the positions of this assembly. The Law on the Assembly is, as you know, in the procedure and our plan is to put it on the agenda during this period, before the holidays. 95% of the content of this law has been agreed, to my satisfaction, among representatives of all parliamentary groups and we have a period of alignment of about 5% more text. As for our constitutional obligation, i.e. the constitutional obligation of the government and the resolution ministries to comply with the Constitution, the Assembly, in December of last year and early this year, informed the government of this and we expect them to do so as soon as possible. What are the laws in the procedure? It is true that the largest number of acts you have proposed, the DSS, is in the process without being on the site, but you have received written information from professional services that it is necessary to deliver texts in electronic form, so that they can be on the site. I know how many documents are in procedure, 91, of which 39 are ratifications. That would be about it. You're not satisfied? Here you go. This morning, a memo went to you, and I have information from Mr. Secretary that you were sent a letter this morning with instructions on the need to submit the drafts of the law in electronic form.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17594	You know how, this second thing you've said is the ultimate final answer to what I've asked you, which means you haven't answered anything, especially about the relationship between this National Assembly and the institutions of this state. What I'm looking at these days is absolutely undoing the value of this home that way. If this home elects the governor of the NBS, if this home chooses other independent institutions and has a relationship with these institutions, then this home should regulate the way these institutions behave in situations of crisis, rather than listen to instructions from one centre, first of all, the cabinet of Boris Tadic. You didn't answer that. If I didn't look back on other things, just for a little while, so I wouldn't take any further time, your last answer, which you gave when it comes to the Web presentation of the National Assembly and the display of acts in the procedure, is a direct violation of the basic principles of parliamentaryism. The way the Secretary-General of the National Assembly behaves and you who, apparently, assist him, or someone who gives you orders to act like this directly violates the value of this home and what would be called - the equality of the rights of the Members of the people. Under the Constitution of this state, we have the right to propose laws. We have the right, like all other MPs, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to have these laws passed on to the web site. You cannot force us to deliver to you, based on your memos, Mr. Secretary-General, in electronic form our draft laws that do not exist in electronic form. I asked you a question three weeks ago, and you sent us a memo this morning. After all, these laws have been seduced. You've got services, go ahead, type 'em up, put 'em in electronic form and hang on to a web presentation. That's what you have to do. We don't have to do this, because it doesn't say anything. So much for your answer, how smart and correct he is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17595	Mr Aligrudić, I would like to agree with you that it seems to be an attempt to degrade some of the National Assembly, the position of parliamentarians, personally, and the importance of Parliamentarians and the National Assembly, and in all communications, above all, with the media and with other instances, I am making an effort to make this home, which is doing an extremely responsible job, be valued in the right way. We need to do this together. Your suggestions, in the sense that it is necessary for Parliament to have the dignity to be observed and out of this house, are fully in place. I fully agree with you here, and I think we need to have a joint and synchronised action, which should begin with our, above all, proper work, and we have witnessed the fact that this has been happening in recent weeks. I'm sorry you're not happy with all my answers, but in any case, we'll find a way to retest whether you're in charge or professional service. If you're not bound by it, we'll make every effort to find everything in the legal procedure on the site because it fits the truth. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17596	I have a question for the first Deputy Prime Minister, Vice President, Mr. Ivica Dacic, one single question, which speaks a lot about the government's behaviour, which one speaks, and the other works. The question is – why did Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic sign a decision on the appointment of two members of the Management Board of the Foreign Affairs Insurance and Finance Fund, which we are abolishing at this session, what have we discussed in principle? In fact, under the 21st agenda of the session, which began on 30 March, we have a topic – the abolition of the Foreign Trade Insurance Fund. What is the Fund's Management Board, which was already suspended in the principle debate, which was due to be abolished three years ago, because its operations are being doubled into the Export Business Insurance Agency? Whether the explanation lies in the planting, without an apology to the term, Mr Dinkic, whose two employees are at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development appointed as members of the Management Board. It is about Dragan Matovic, a graduate lawyer, and Dusan Vukkovic, also a graduate lawyer at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. In Official Messenger number 26, which was printed on 14 April, a week ago, a decision on their appointment was published, while Mr Milan Krkobibic was resolved. The moment he's threatened to fire a large number of government employees, when we're discussing rebalancing and following laws that need to be saved, this is really amazing information. Dinkic wants his ministry staff to provide a way that is not worthy of a serious government in crisis. Since Article 235 allows me to give one notice, this was a question, I inform the citizens that it is necessary that those empty papers in the supply notebooks, which now remain naked, are used to record these procedures by the government, because a lot of things are being accumulated, and don't let them be forgotten, because in times like this, this is inadmissible behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17597	Thank you. Your questions will be forwarded to the government, or vice-presidents of the government. The word has a folk MP, Mr Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17598	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I have some questions and I need answers to these questions, or notices, so that I and New Serbia's MPs can give some answers to the citizens, as far as the province's MPs who are part of the Vojvodina Assembly are concerned. As we can see, it is, first of all, a grudge to the media that exists in these congregations that exist in our country's political system of good guys and bad guys. Of course, this assembly consists of 'bad guys', because we come to work and we work as much as we know and we know and we accept and we support every action of saving, cutting wages, paying all the bills that MPs spend on the guests they have, but I wonder – what about MPs in the Vojvodina Assembly, who have more salaries than MPs in the National Assembly? What about the President of the Assembly, Shandor Egereshi, who plays the head of state and performs on behalf of the state of Vojvodina? Is that a reward for those "good guys" who don't come to the assembly? This congregation has not worked for months, and they receive more wages than the MPs have here. Is this a prize for the vote of the "good statute", a statute that you must not put on the agenda of the Assembly, and as we heard Mr Aligrudić's statement, under the Constitution, you were obliged to do so until December 31st? Is this getting your head in the sand? This is a question, first of all, for DS representatives at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because, as far as I know, they are in the absolute majority of the Regional Assembly. My second question -- is it easier for the government, which is planning to fire, as we hear from the media, tens of thousands of employees, people who work in administration in various places, to fire 10,000 workers or ten ministers? Is it possible for the heads of government to respond that if they fire some ministers, or abolish some unnecessary ministries, there will be no government? So what if there won't be a government? Is it possible that they think they're God-given, that only that government can rule this country? Are they in those places of the will of the citizens? With the will of the citizens, they should leave. Do the government and the Prime Minister think about yesterday's data in the media, that 47% of Serbian citizens are seeking elections, 31% are against it? Third, I have a question for the Ministry of Agriculture. We all witness that on the proposal of New Serbia MPs, in particular Mr Milutin Jelic, Mr Milutin Jelic, an amendment of the NS MPs was adopted, so that a billion dinars for the purchase of tractors, which would be used, above all, by young farmers, are foreseen in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. I don't need to remind all of you here, I think you know about this information, that agriculture machinery in Serbia is obsolete and that the tractor average is over 15 years old. What did the Minister of Agriculture do to make this amendment, which is an integral part of the Budget Law, realise? We all voted to implement this amendment; I guess I shouldn't tell anyone how significant it would be for the tractor industry, which, according to my data, is about 1,500 tractors a year, and it used to be a powerful industry where thousands of workers were getting paid. The fourth question, for the Prime Minister and Minister of Defence -- what do they think they are doing about the news that NATO exercises in Georgia will include Serbia at the border with Russia? Do these people even have the current political situation in the world, do they know where we live and where our country is, from whom we have the support, the only one at this point, what such? I ask the DS MPs, the Prime Minister, the president of the state and the defence minister to make an immediate decision, to hitchhike that decision where, allegedly, two officers, or two people from the Serbian Army, will participate in NATO exercises in Georgia, at the border with Russia. When I heard it yesterday, and I believe the vast majority of citizens, in the media, I couldn't believe my ears and eyes. I want answers to these questions by Thursday, due to urgency and importance, especially as far as Georgia and NATO exercises in Georgia are concerned, because if they're going to suit us as some ministers did, after two or three months, when the train passed, as the people say... (President: Time. ) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17599	Your questions will be forwarded to the Assembly of Vojvodina, the Government, or the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Agriculture. Thank you. Mrs. Marina Ragush has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17600	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, what has startled the SRS is Mr. Tadic's visit to the High Decans, not just a visit, as much as the need for permission to visit Kosovo authorities. We also heard some negatives from Mr Tadic's cabinet afterwards. However, what I would like to say to this occasion, the clarifications doing, is that the US Embassy in Pristina issued a statement that, in fact, denies completely what Mr. Tadic said for the purpose of visiting the High Decians. To avoid paraphrasing what the US Embassy in Pristina has announced, they welcome the Kosovo government's decision to approve Boris Tadic of attending the High Decani monastery service. "The decision was a just act. This decision was made by the sovereign state, in line with Ahtisaari's plan and for the benefit of neighbouring relations," the statement added. We couldn't take a bigger and stronger shot. What the opposition has been talking about for a number of months now, we have just received a statement from the US Embassy in Pristina. Also, one of the confirmations of procedures on the basis of which Serbian officials visit the sanctities at KIM and on the basis of which they can enter the sovereign part of Serbia's territory, we received from the EU special envoy's spokesman for Kosovo, Mrs Juliet Roter, who, among other things, said that, under the constitution, Kosovo institutions are the only authority that can allow, or prohibit, visits by Serbian statesmen. With this in mind, the SRS is asking for detailed information from the Prime Minister, the interior minister, and what we want is an official response to what appears to be the procedure for visiting state protocols, state officials Kosovo and Metohija, and on this basis we will know what is going on behind the eyes of the public. I guess it'll be one of the very important evidence. We are also trying for days to say that the derogation of the Parliament's dignity is happening at times when public attention should be drawn to some quite ephermerical things compared to what might seem, which we think already seems to be entering into negotiations with Kosovo authorities, which we think is unacceptable. We hope to get this answer as soon as possible. I also have to tell you that last year, October or November, I do not have a precise date, I have asked a question and asked for an explanation, in fact, a detailed piece of information about which team participates in drawing up a basis that should go before the International Court of Justice, and as regards the legality of the declaration of independence of the KIM. The SRS Parliament Club has not received any answers to this day, no information. It is now the end of April, and we think that such a relationship between the government, the resolution ministries and the first minister is unacceptable and unacceptable. Thus, it proves that we are obviously living in two parallel states, two parallel systems and that, most likely, the only thing that is functionally possible is that the opposition is ambushed in one building and the position in another building. These are all evidence that speaks of the relationship the executive authority has with the legislative authority. I hope that these benches will be filled during today, because this is one picture, when we discuss details, what the government's attitude towards Parliament is. Another question, directly for the defence minister, in fact, can be grouped with the question of Mr Markicevic from New Serbia. Just to clarify, it is the participation of Serbia in manoeuvres to be held in the period of 6 May – 1 June in Georgia, which all Russian and Russian Federation officials have responded very sharply and sent an official note to NATO's alliance, requesting that such a maneuver be cancelled. We are also looking for an clarification in this regard, but since I know that the issue cannot be doubled, I have no problem with the fact that this is going into Mr Markicevic's question. One more question. I don't see if this fifth minute's up from here. Okay, nothing, I'll leave for Thursday, so I hope we have some space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17601	Thank you. Your question will be forwarded to the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior, I suppose, and the Minister of Justice, regarding the response you have been expecting since November, and the defence minister will go as part of the already asked question. Since no one to the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups has answered the floor, we continue the work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Jelena Travar-Miljević, Miroslav Petkovic and Vladan Batic. I would also like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for meetings, in addition to the proposing representatives Milan Markovic, the Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, and Oliver Dulic, the Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, to be attended by Gradimir Nenadovic, the Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law and Darko Radojčić, the Assistant Director. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – PROPOST OF THE LAW AND USES OF THE GRBA, ZAVA AND HIMNE REPUBLIK SRBJE (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Zlata Djerić, Božidar Delić, Zoran Marić, Vladjan Jeremic, Mićo Rogović, Borislav Pljević, Gojko Radić, Miroslav Marković, Dragan Todorović, Branimir Đokić, Vesna Marić, Vladjan Jeremic, Ljubisa Petković, Dusan Šević, Gordana Pavnović, Gordana Pavnović, Dragović, Dragović, Srboljubljan Živović, Marina Toman, Paja Momčov, Vitomir Plužar Pljužrević, Milović, Miljan Radović, Dušan Marić, Radan Marić, Radan Marić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radina Žović, Dragović, Dragović, Drag, Drag, Dragović, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag and Mo. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 1, the amendment, which, according to the assessment of the Legislative Committee, was submitted by the MPs: Marina Ragus, Vjerica Radeta, Branimir Đokić, Milorad Buha, Tomislav Ljubenović, Lidija Vukicevic, Nikola Savić, Milan Škrbić, Filip Stojanović, Sulejaman Spaho, Dragan Zivkov, Nikola Žutić, Vesna Marić, Vitomir Plužarevic, Ljubomir Kragović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Milan Nikolic, Mirko Munić, Dragan Stevanović, Marina Toman, Dusanka Plecevic, Sreto Perić, Elena Christmas-Talijan, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Boris Aleks and Aleksandar Martinović. According to Article 143, paragraphs 5 and 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if several MPs from the same parliamentary group submit amendments which are identical by their content, will be deemed to be one of the same amendments submitted by several MPs and, in that case, the right to explain that amendment on behalf of the applicants shall only have one of the Members of Parliaments signed, for up to two minutes. The government has not accepted these amendments. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that these amendments be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendments legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17602	What should now be done to the Serbian public, I hope it is written on transmission screens, to be completely transparent, is how many MPs are able, firstly, to explain the amendment in two minutes. I will try to stay within these two minutes, and I hope that the arguments that should be explained by these amendments will be presented in a thorough manner. I am saying this with my intention, in order not to put certain pressure on the ruling coalition that the envisaged norm of the Rules of Procedure, in terms of only two minutes for the interpretation of the amendments, is changing in favour, for example, five minutes. If it's 15 minutes long, it's five minutes, I think it's a good time. Perhaps then the number of amendments would be smaller, but therefore we would all have a better chance of explaining each amendment in a more detailed and reasoned way. The SRS parliamentary group has time that allows it to, even, use the time foreseen for the parliamentary group to explain the amendments, but you have parliamentary groups that don't have that much time at their disposal, have a number of amendments and a problem to explain the amendments in two minutes, which we seem may in some way improve the proposed legislative solutions. This is the contribution of the SRS Parliament Club to creating a constructive political atmosphere and agreements that should allow all parties to carry out their duties. The amendments submitted by the members of the SRS, which you have grouped, in fact, what I should say now is that we wanted to be a member of the 1st. Proposal for a law on the appearance and use of coat of arms, flags and anthem of the Republic of Serbia changes... (President: Time. That's it. This is exactly a demonstration of what I'm talking about. Now I'm just announcing that I'm going to use the time that's scheduled for the MP's group. Are you letting me do that?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17603	No, I don't. The time of the Parliamentary Group is 15 minutes, but this amendment is not. On Article 1, amendments submitted by the MPs: Natasa Jovanovic, Zoran Krasic, Vladja Milojković, Momcilo Duvnjak, Slobodan Vuković, Dragan Todorovic, Paja Momčilov, Petar Jojić, Ognjen Mihajlović, Vladan Jeremic, Marko Milenković, Dusan Marić, Milovan Radovanović, Goran Mihajlović, Momir Marković, Milan Veseinović, Radisa Ilic, Dobrislav Prelić, Zoran Popović, Ljubisa Petković, Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljevic, Srboljub Živanovic, Milorad Krstin, Milan Avramović, Jadranko Vuković, Bojan Mladen, Radica Jocic, Dejan Mirović, Sladjan Mijaljević and Dragan Aćimović. According to Article 143, paragraphs 5 and 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if several MPs from the same parliamentary group submit amendments which are identical, will be deemed to be one of the same amendments submitted by several MPs and, in that case, the right to explain that amendment on behalf of the applicants only has one of the Members of Parliaments signed, for up to two minutes. The government has not accepted these amendments. The Justice and Administration Committee proposes that these amendments be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that these amendments do not comply with Article 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17604	Now I'd just like you to tell me how many MPs and I, as an authorised representative, have total time at our disposal?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17605	Parliamentary Group – 68 minutes, and you – 15 minutes, as an authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17606	Which means I can use all that time to explain the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17607	You can, but not about a specific amendment. Come in and tell me in advance you want to use that time. It's not a dispute. First you want to talk about this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17608	Actually, I want to pick up where I left off earlier, and time wouldn't let me explain that amendment in an argument. I will try to make it clear to the public in Serbia what the SRS thinks should be corrected by this bill on the appearance and use of coat of arms, flags and anthem of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Our intervention is to define the appearance and use of political, historical, heraldic and musical symbols of territorial integrity, state sovereignty and freedom of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. coat of arms, flags and anthem. We are talking about a bill on the appearance and use of coat of arms, therefore, of national symbols, which we consider to be extremely important, but we are talking in the context of historical and political events, that our sovereign part of the territory, Kosovo and Metohija, is usurped, therefore, under occupation, that Marty Ahtisaari's plan is being implemented in that part of the territory, that I am in the debate in principle and showed to the entire Serbian public, which, however, you will allow me, the most significant one for this topic, to implement the law on the use of the national symbols of Kosovo. The law was passed very soon after the declaration of independence, so-called independence. the countries of Kosovo. What is a fundamental issue for the SRS and an attempt to make this very clear to these amendments is the question, and we did not get that answer from the representatives of the resolution ministry – will this bill, when adopted and become law, be implemented on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? This means that there is a Serbian flag on all institutions, that there is a two-headed non-deficient eagle in all institutions and that in all the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, in all manifestations, an anthem is heard "God of Justice". That's what we want, too, and we insist on a concrete answer – will they and when? If we don't get that answer, it means we're right, and then it's a groundless debate about this, as well as any other bill. However, we are participating, just to show the Serbian public in what time and how the state of Serbia uses its prerogatives throughout its territory and to prove, at the end or at the beginning, that what the administration and Washington and Brussels are doing is nothing more than, in actual language, an attack on the constitutional order of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17609	So, in this case, you spent three minutes of your time as a representative of the Parliamentary Group, since you were not a supporter of the amendments. On Article 2, the amendments, which, according to the assessment of the Legislative Committee, were submitted by the Members of the People's Republic: Aleksandar Martinović, Ljubomir Kragovic, Dragan Acimović, Elena Bozic-Talijan, Srboljub Živanovic, Marina Toman, Milorad Buha, Zoran Krasic, Ognjen Mihajlović, Marina Ragus, Sulejman Spaho, Sreto Perić, Vitomir Plužarević, Dragan Stevanović, Vesna Marić, Filip Stojanović, Mirko Munjic, Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljevic, Milan Vesenović, Vladan Jeremic, Slobodan Vuković, Dusan Marić, Radiša Ilic, Jadranko Vuković, Milorad Krstin, Milan Avramović and Bojan Mladenov. According to Article 143, paragraphs 5 and 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if several MPs from the same parliamentary group submit amendments which are identical, will be deemed to be one of the same amendments submitted by several MPs and, in that case, the right to explain that amendment on behalf of the applicants only has one of the Members of Parliaments signed, for up to two minutes. The government has not accepted these amendments. The Justice and Administration Committee proposes that these amendments be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers these amendments legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17610	I've been reported. I don't suppose you're aware of the fact that there's a microphone left, so when I try to pull the card, I turn you off. I hope your technical problems are solved. We know that in the previous session, the Serbian Parliament has annulled acts that have been brought immediately after the declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija, but perhaps we should now take a closer look at it, since we did not have the opportunity in the debate in principle, now is the opportunity, when we speak in particular, and to hear from representatives, I suppose, of the resolution ministry – what is the provision in relation to the law on the use of the state symbols of Kosovo? Just to remind him, in the first chapter, in the general provisions, that is, in Article 2, it says that the state symbols of the Republic of Kosovo are the flag, coat of arms and anthem, which represents the Republic of Kosovo, the identity of the Republic of Kosovo. The flag, coat of arms and anthems of the Republic of Kosovo are used in accordance with the laws and the relevant sublaws adopted in the implementation of the same law, and then it is not clear how our law on the use of coat of arms, flags and anthems with this law, which is not existing for us, the countries of Kosovo, which have become exclusively on Shipar terrorism. In Article 3, they speak of the form, the composition of the state symbols of the Republic of Kosovo, of the use, setting and comparison of the flag of Kosovo. They also talk about the way the Kosovo flag is used by citizens etc. What we should get at least as an explanation, even as an official protest by the Republic of Serbia, in relation to the completely illegal situation in KIM territory, we have not won until today. We have a situation where Marty Ahtisaari's plan is being implemented in that part of the territory. We have an explanation of the official state institutions that this is not the case. We have a completely foggy situation, or should we simplify it in a radical way, recognizable to all of us – we think that the state of Serbia, i.e. The official authorities, in a certain way, since there is no official protest in this context, no explanation, no official response, simply accepted the fact that KIM's territory is implementing Marty Ahtisaari's laws and has its national symbols, which are completely contrary to the symbols of the Serbian state. What the SRS, the Serbian public must know, has asked for its amendments, is that the Serbian flag must not be fluttered past the flags of all those who have recognised an independent Kosovo, regardless of what kind of a science institution it is. This would mean for us that the Serbian state is giving an official message to everyone in the world that KiM will never be a fact for them, in the sense that the Shiptar terrorists, who have been freed from their terrible crimes, the US and Brussels administration have made a state, invest some funds there and daily slap the slaps on the official institutions of the state of Serbia, which, de facto and de jure, do not exist on the part of the KIM territory. What the Serbian public should know is that we, again, were expecting answers from officials in Serbia, expecting a certain protest, and this would again be a picture of protection of Serbia's dignity. Every time any national symbol of Serbia, from the flag and beyond, fell or treated in certain rough ways in the neighbouring republics, we did not get that answer, and no note of Serbia referred to Croatia during the handball championship, and we had many examples that I would talk about later. When we get, in particular, the official position of the executive authority in Serbia, in the sense that everything that Serbia represents at any step, as far as within Serbia's own state, as well as on the outside, we will have the opportunity to talk about the state behind the constitution of the guaranteed system. The table now has a truly terrible situation of flagrant violation of all constitutional principles, hitting the constitutional order of Serbia. Any normal country in the world would react in a certain way when it comes to such illegal savagery. The SRS has repeatedly asked for explanations, asked questions, tried to draw the amendments' attention to what should be changed in this bill, to make this bill look better, and first and foremost, we did not get an answer whether this bill, or when adopted, would apply to part of the territory that is a sovereign part of Serbian territory, i.e. for Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17611	On Article 2, amendments submitted by the MPs Gordana Pop-Lazic, Boris Aleksic, Dejan Mirović, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Radica Jocic, Dusanka Plečević, Paja Momčev, Natasa Jovanovic, Vlad Milojković, Momcilo Duvnjak, Dragan Todorovic, Branimir Djokić, Tomislav Ljubenović, Lidija Vukić, Petar Jojić, Vjerica Radeta, Milan Škrbić, Nikola Savik, Dragan Žutić, Nikola Žutić, Milovan Radovan, Goran Mihajlović, Momir Marković, Sladjan Mijaljevic, Milan Popović, Ljubisa Petkovic and Dobrislav Prelic, according to their content. According to Article 143, paragraphs 5 and 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if several MPs from the same parliamentary group submit amendments which are identical, will be deemed to be one of the same amendments submitted by several MPs and, in that case, the right to explain that amendment on behalf of the applicants only has one of the Members of Parliaments signed, for up to two minutes. The government has not accepted these amendments. The Justice and Administration Committee proposes that these amendments be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that these amendments do not comply with Article 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Does Mrs. Ragush want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17612	I will try in a manner worthy of my colleagues to present everything they have tried to present to their amendments. According to these rules of the Rules of Procedure and the interpretation of the President of the Assembly, unfortunately, I cannot discuss concrete solutions to a concrete amendment to the proposal for a law on the use of coat of arms, flags and anthem of the Republic of Serbia, and how, and I hope that you will allow me to do so. All that we failed to discuss in the principle of saying, here is the opportunity to speak through concrete examples of paintings and historical, and social, and political, above all, context, when we first, after so much time, speak, thank God, of national Serb symbols, when we first try to say that the tradition of implementing Serbian national interest was nothing more than the continuing killing of the Serbian national question in the most different ways possible. What many authors say and what we confirm is, firstly, because the interest of the great forces in this part of the territory was such and in the context of the approximation of the great Russia. It's a topic for another agenda, so on that occasion, maybe if there's a chance, we'll talk about it. What the state of Serbia is trying to convince the Serbian public now is that it exists on every part of the territory, and we say it does not exist. He's trying to convince him to enforce constitutionally guaranteed rights in every part of the territory, and we say he's not, and that's why this bill of law with us is causing the infidel to be implemented in any way. This time I would like to draw attention and remind the Serbian public that it is extremely important and we are all proud when our athletes are getting certain recognitions for the fantastic results achieved under incredible difficult circumstances. It's really nice to listen to "God of Justice" and watch the Serbian flag fly. It's not like that every time. What's most common, and it seems to me that athletes, first of all, are great patriots and patriots, and when you talk and talk to them, then you see that most often in certain primary ones they feel lonely. One such case was the handball championship in Croatia. What's left and what really disgusted us is the fact that this championship took place at the Lori. I'll remind you that the "Lora" sports facility was created at the Serbian torture site. There once, as members of the army, people were tortured. The response of the Serbian state in terms of any protest is lagging behind. Since the games were held in various cities, just to remind the Serbian public, perhaps the Serbian public doesn't know that, because we have informed ourselves of this from athletes who were in an extremely difficult situation there and under extreme stress, Serbian national symbols were derivated in their eyes in the worst possible way, and in these circumstances they should have defended Serbia's colors and achieved certain results. The state of Serbia was left with no protection to those children who were doing their best. One example is that Croatian fans tried to physically attack Serbian handball players, that after they burned the Serbian flag, with chauvinist insults directed to the Serbian people. If it were the other way around, I think that we would be on the agenda of all international organisations and that we would already have terrible notes from senior officials, say, the EU, perhaps the United Nations, but when Serbs do so, then even the Serbian side lacks a reaction. What caused the biggest incident, in fact, is the move of the mayor of Zadar, one of the hosts of the World Cup, who from the official mast, on which all the flags of the participants of the championship were exposed, took off only the Serbian tricolor. The reason for removing the Serbian flag, according to him, was a preventive measure avoiding the irritation of Croatian fans. An unprecedented incident, but unfortunately, without conviction from the Serbian side. We can allow Serbian officials not to be familiar with this situation, but we think it is outrageous that the Ministry of Sports, for example, has no such information. If she didn't have it, she has it now. It was a week ago, maybe a month ago, but we still don't have an official response from the Serbian executive from all these incidents that are happening, related to Serbian national symbols. Since this is because the executive power in Serbia tells Serbia that it is not important for it to protect all its citizens, regardless of any specificity, all of its teams, sports or any other, we can say that it is only some form of executive authority, that Prime Minister Cvetkovic and Mr Boris Tadic, in fact, do not intend to protect everything that is Serbian dignity in a certain way, through the protection of Serbian national symbols. We are also very likely to not even get an answer to this request, and we have received the answer that the amendment has been rejected, that the Serbian flag must not be swerved past the flags of those countries that have recognised Kosovo and Metohija independently. These are, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, the circumstances in which we are discussing and discussing the proposed set of laws, first of all, on the bill on the appearance and use of coat of arms, flags and anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Today or tomorrow, a similar incident will happen again. What we can assume, based on our current behaviour, is that there will be no reaction. What's next? Should someone be hurt somewhere because they will protect the flag of the country they come from, because it means everything to him at that moment, or because they will react in a certain way because someone is laughing at him while playing "God of Justice"? Is there anyone who should suffer from the mass of destruction that the government may say, "They are under our protection and we will protect them in due time and in the right way?" It is simply unheard that the Serbian government has missed all these moments to react in the right way and that is a perfectly clear and sufficient answer to the Serbian public as we do, in fact, we do. In these benches it was supposed to be, the mail is national symbols on the agenda, and if there's anything more important than that for a country that needs to achieve some dignity, the entire government, in full composition. We only have one gentleman here, representing one part of the Ministry. Look at the situation in Parliament itself. So, so much for what matters to us is everything that connects to Serbia. I think it should be the only real answer to the Serbian public for the current situation, for the projection of the future, and for how parliamentaryism, what political life in Serbia looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17613	Thank you. You have just begun to spend the time that is scheduled for your parliamentary group; for two minutes you have spent, or a minute and a half. On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Pelevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The legislative committee considers that this amendment does not comply with Article 183(4) and Article 190(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Pelevic isn't here. On Article 3, amendments, which, according to the evaluation of the Legislative Committee, were submitted by the MPs: Lidija Vukicevic, Vjerica Radeta, Momcilo Duvnjak, Tomislav Ljubenović, Dragan Todorovic, Petar Jojić, Milovanovic, Nikola Savinović, Dragan Stevanovic, Marko Milenković, Vitomir Plužarevic, Filip Stojanović, Momir Marković, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Ljubisa Petkovic, Goran Mihajlović, Mirko Munjic, Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljevic, Paja Momčilov, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Aleksandar Martinović and Ljubomir Kragović. According to Article 143, paragraphs 5 and 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if several MPs from the same parliamentary group submit amendments which are identical by their content, will be deemed to be one of the same amendments submitted by several MPs and, in that case, the right to explain that amendment on behalf of the applicants shall only have one of the Members of Parliaments signed, for up to two minutes. The government has not accepted these amendments, and the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that these amendments be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers these amendments legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mrs. Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17614	The question for the promoter, first of all, is how will it be sanctioned, I am trying in continuity to finish the story concerning the national symbols of the state of Serbia, and yet, since my colleagues are not there, I do not have the opportunity to talk about a concrete amendment, in which way does the promoter think that he sanctions any abuse of national symbols of the state of Serbia, since it seems to us that in the criminal provisions it is not clear? You may have accepted some of the amendments from other parliamentary groups, if you have a problem with what the amendments come from the ranks of the SRS. However, what is an example, which should also be discussed, has been prepared by my colleague Dragan Stevanovic, who for well-known reasons is unable to explain his amendments. If we just analyze the parallel practice of countries in the environment, and it concerns relations with national symbols, even though we have a comparative practice here and we do not need to understand how important the Serbian flag, coat of arms and anthem, for example. in Bulgaria, in every village or village where there is a state institution, such as school, kindergarten, infirmary, any official state body institution, there is a prominent position in any of the national symbols, firstly the flag. If, for example, you look at the metropolis situation, so in the capital city of the Serbian state, you will see that it is not such a situation. The law provides for such an obligation, but what if it is not fulfilled? What Mr. Stevanovic particularly draws attention to and what should be said in particular we also have concrete examples. At the scheduled time for asking parliamentary questions and asking for explanations, I spent time on what is most powerful, but also we have certain examples to discuss, let's say, on Thursday, and we will ask for an official response from the state of Serbia, as regards the south of Serbia, i.e. the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac. Let me remind you, one of the members of these laws is talking about this, specifically, Article 8. It is not rare, therefore, to remove Serbian flag and set Albanian from Serbian state institutions. This is especially happening on flag day in Albania, when Cypriot extremists place an Albanian flag on municipal administration buildings in Presevo and Bujanovac. If you did not consider it controversial to act in the right way so far, how will you react now, that is what we are particularly interested in, and what penalties are provided for those who treat the national symbols of the state of Serbia? An example of one, what the media followed, in the context of buying Serbian houses where there is no room for Serbs, because Albanian extremists make it very clear, by brutally driving the Serb population, is that the Albanian flag hangs on every house they buy from Serbs. We expect an official response, especially from the department, so we'd like to hear how do you think you're implementing this law in these situations? How will you implement the law, for example, in Kosovo and Metohija – when it is a session of parliament, there is no Serbian flag, how will you punish all those who do not highlight Serbian flags in Pristina, do not intonate the "God of Justice" anthem and there are no two-headed non-deficient eagles where to stand? How are you going to sanction them? That's what we'd like to hear in this debate in particular. We think this debate on concrete legal solutions deserves that kind of answer. If you are not owned to give such a kind of answer, with a certain surprise that I must now express, I ask the question, what is your presence at this regular session of the Serbian Parliament? Also, to the Serbian public, this should be an answer to everything that should represent Serbia's dignity and concrete debate on the use and use of the national symbols of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17615	On Article 3, amendments that, according to the assessment of the Legislative Committee, were submitted by the MPs: Slobodan Vuković, Marina Ragus, Milorad Buha, Milan Škrbić, Vladan Jeremic, Dragan Zivkov, Srboljub Zivanovic, Dusan Marić, Nikola Žutić, Zoran Popović, Dobrislav Prelic, Vlad Milojković, Marina Toman, Radisa Ilic, Elena Christmas-Talijan, Milan Veseinović, Milorad Krstin, Jadranko Vukovic, Radica Avramović, Radica Jocic, Dejan Mirović, Bojan Mladenov, Boris Aleksic and Dragan Acimovic. According to Article 143, paragraphs 5 and 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if several MPs from the same parliamentary group submit amendments which are identical by their content, will be deemed to be one of the same amendments submitted by several MPs and, in that case, the right to explain that amendment on behalf of the applicants shall only have one of the Members of Parliaments signed, for up to two minutes. The government has not accepted these amendments. The Justice and Administration Committee proposes that these amendments be rejected. The Legislative Committee believes that these amendments do not comply with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word is Marina Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17616	What we have foreseen by amendment to this article of the Law on the look and use of coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Serbia is that attitude 1 is changed and said: "In the coat of arms and the flag of the Republic of Serbia, as the country under which the pressure and blackmail policy is conducted for years, nothing can be written, or entered, nor can they be changed." The explanation of this amendment and what guided us while we were working on the amendments to this bill is that the amendment is fully in line with the provisions of Article 7 of the highest legislative act of the Serbian state, i.e. the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and international standards on the appearance and use of coat of arms, flags and anthem, as symbols of the state sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia in all its territory, including KIM. I must ask the executive officer how he will sanction the consistent non-application of this member, especially in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. I apologize for regularly mentioning KIM, but that will be the basis for any further exposure to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17617	On Article 4, amendments submitted by the MPs: Milorad Buha, Lidija Vukicevic, Tomislav Ljubenović, Milovanovic, Marko Milenkovic, Dragan Zivkov, Dragan Stevanović, Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljevic, Filip Stojanović, Goran Mihajlović, Dobrislav Prelic, Ljubomir Kragović and Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the assessment of the Legislative Committee. According to Article 143, paragraphs 5 and 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if several MPs from the same parliamentary group submit amendments which are identical, will be deemed to be one of the same amendments submitted by several MPs and, in that case, the right to explain that amendment on behalf of the applicants only has one of the Members of Parliaments signed, for up to two minutes. The government has not accepted these amendments. The Justice and Administration Committee proposes that these amendments be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers them legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Marina Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17618	What will be important for us to hear during this debate in particular, and we are afraid, based on what we have heard so far, that we will not hear, but even if the Serbian public is going to think about all of this and to discuss national symbols, thank God, nine years after the change in Serbia, but at least some of the topics that we could talk about in the context of working to raise the dignity of this country, which is thrown on our knees every day and which, in a certain way, sends very clear messages that the largest Western European democracies and the United States have a certain relationship with what they are national symbols of the state of Serbia. We are not quite sure whether this big, versatile, civilized West scares the two-headed eagle of Germany, whether it really poses a threat to them and a threat that one day Serbia will be set free, united and stand on its feet, whether the anthem "God of Justice" is a reminder to the entire European civilised world that has thrown all of Serbia's national symbols under its feet. We can't know that, but based on all the behavior so far, it's the only message that's understandable. If not, then we would be in a situation, let's say, that in Peca, Prizren, Urosevic, Djakovici, Pristina, we have prominent national and national symbols of Serbia. That is not the case and that the relationship between the members of the executive government in Serbia is exactly the same as their mentors, since you chose and the people voted for this approach to Europe, i.e. that Europe has no alternative, see what it looks like in practice. I believe you're not comfortable hearing what I'm talking about, because you don't have clear answers to this subject, but the situation is next. The moment it is intonated in the territory of the kiM anthem such as "God of Justice", we will know that Serbia is carrying out what is guaranteed by the Constitution, without the US and EU representatives hitting the constitutional order of the Serbian state. Also, in the context of all this that should happen in front of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, as regards the illegal declaration of independence of KIM, all of us, and that the International Court of Justice in The Hague decides in our favour, we would like to know whether it means that the Serbian tricolor, the Serbian anthem and the two-headed eagle will be where they belong, in the entire territory of the KIM, because if that does not mean, then we are talking about the plastic evidence of the American occupation over that part of the territory. We could ask a bunch more questions here, I'm going to leave those questions for an explanation and discussion in the course of this session, but I'd like to hear, sir, that you give us at least one answer to all of these are dilemmas, specific questions from the SRS Parliament Club for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17619	On Article 4, amendments that, according to the assessment of the Legislative Committee, were submitted by the Members of Parliament: Natasa Jovanovic, Branimir Djokić, Momcilo Duvnjak, Slobodan Vuković, Dragan Todorovic, Marina Ragus, Petar Jojić, Vjerica Radet, Vlad Milojković, Dusan Marić, Nikola Žutić, Dušanka Pletić, Vladan Jeremic, Milan Škrbić, Sulejman Spaho, Momer Marković, Elena Bozan-Talijan, Milan Avramović, Jadranko Vuković, Milorad Krstin, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Sladjan Mijaljević, Dejan Mirović, Bojan Mladenović, Dragan Aćimović, Ljubisa Petković, Srboljuboljuživić, Sreto Perić, Paja Momčev, Marina Toman, Vitomir Plužarić and Božarić. According to Article 143, paragraphs 5 and 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if several MPs from the same parliamentary group submit amendments which are identical, will be deemed to be one of the same amendments submitted by several MPs and, in that case, the right to explain that amendment on behalf of the applicants only has one of the Members of Parliaments signed, for up to two minutes. The government has not accepted these amendments. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that these amendments be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that they do not comply with the rules of legal normation. Does anyone want a word? The word is Marina Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17620	That means, since I have submitted an amendment to this article of the law, I can speak directly about this amendment. For the sake of time savings, the text of the reasoning, which is essentially no different from the other amendments and concerns Article 7. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you do. We expected, to be honest, that the government would refuse such a legal solution and we would like to hear from you what decision did you manage when you refused this amendment? I will also ask you - how will you, as representatives of the executive authority, react when a case of breach of this Article occurs? Proposal for a law on the appearance and use of coat of arms, flags and anthem of the Republic of Serbia in the territory of KIM, in Presevo, Bujanovac and Vranj? As we've seen, we have similar examples. In the first place, I would like to ask you – how do you think this member will be implemented in the territory of KIM? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17621	On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. The Government has not accepted the amendment, the Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment does not comply with Article 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, amendments submitted by MPs Dobrislav Prelic and Zoran Popovic, according to the assessment of the Legislative Committee. According to Article 143, paragraphs 5 and 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the right to explain these amendments on behalf of the Members of the People, have only one of the signed Members of the People, for up to two minutes. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that amendments be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers these amendments legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) He has Mrs. Ragush's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17622	I'm not clear on this technical communication between you and me right now. That's what I'd like you to define for me - when I press this key, you don't see it on the screen and then I have to raise my hand? (Yes) So, since my colleague Dragan Stevanovic has submitted an amendment to Article 8 of this bill, we think it is of utmost importance that we get a final answer to the question – that this article of this bill will be implemented in the territory of KIM? We are fully convinced, because we have explored on the Internet a vague legal solution of the Republic of Kosovo on the use of state symbols, and in the context of the story of the proposal for a law on the use of the symbols needed by the state of Serbia, based on Article 7. The constitution, to implement the entire territory it represents, should know what it looks like on the ground, or in practice. For example, we have not heard, nor seen any official reaction, precisely in light of the story and the debate on the subject of this bill, by the executive authority. You have, say, a famous member of the 6th so-called Kosovo. The law on use, so I'd like you to explain to me how parallel there are going to be similar legal solutions? Among other things, it is said about the use of national flags, so it is said that every citizen of the Republic of Kosovo has the right to establish a national flag in accordance with this law and the law in force; ''Citizens of the communities of the Republic of Kosovo have the right individually and as a community to use the national flag. On how to use the national flag on internal premises, outside public institutions, it will bring special sublaws. National flags shall be prohibited if they are outdated or torn.' Of course, it would be unnecessary to ask if it's a Serbian tricolor, because we know what an Albanian flag looks like. In Article 7, you also have a solution regarding the establishment of a national flag, which is constantly being set. This is a very important part and we expect you to react in the light of the bill we are discussing today, because, among other things, the state flag is constantly being placed in buildings: in the building of the President of the Republic of Kosovo, the residence of the Assembly of the Republic of Kosovo, the residence of the Government of the Republic of Kosovo, then, at points of border crossings, the buildings represent the Republic of Kosovo abroad and in car vehicles used by the managers during the performance of official tasks, in accordance with international provisions, i.e. in accordance with the rules and practice of the international organisation where the representation is located, and during the official holidays of the Republic of Kosovo. I am now asking you, how does the executive authority think it sanctions this behavior, because this is a concrete example of an attack on the constitutional order of the Serbian state? In this case, we have a situation that the completely illegal government in Kosovo fully derivates national symbols and the use of national symbols on this sovereign detour. I ask you, in what way will you, for example, direct a note to international representatives if the Albanian holidays are celebrated in KIM, honor Albanian symbols rather than Serbian? That's what we expect, believe that all this is happening in front of the Serbian public, to hear during today's debate. Also, this completely illegal act, but which is the official act of the Republic of Kosovo, is predicted to set the national flag on official occasions, accompanied by the President of the Republic of Kosovo, the President of the Assembly of the Republic of Kosovo, the prime minister, when leaving the territory of the Republic of Kosovo to visit and welcome him, when he returns to the Republic of Kosovo, then for the arrival of foreign heads of state, the authorised representative of the international organisation of the Republic of Kosovo, that is, on the occasion of an escort ceremony with the Republic of Kosovo. It also sets up during local meetings and international public meetings, sports and cultural competitions, humanitarian and military performances, where the Republic of Kosovo participates, on the occasion of the official holiday, also mentioning public events that are important for the republic of Kosovo, which is determined by the government; also in other cases, if the use of the flag is not in conflict with the law. We would also like to hear – what would happen if in London, or in the territory of the United Kingdom, or in the United States, a Serb thought to take down a British or American flag and set his own? That would be about the same situation. In this situation, we have the case that the US and Brussels administration are supporting a coup against the constitutional order of the sovereign state as Serbia is. We ask you, and we want an urgent answer, did the state of Serbia, or the country's resolute ministry, direct an official protest in the event of any meeting, any events, anything, and where other national symbols besides the Serbian ones are highlighted? We are interested in how, since EULEX does not exist for us, it is a fact of a demented occupation, UNMIK reacts in a situation of disrespect for the Constitution of the Serbian state, in terms of the emphasis of national Serb symbols? Depending on your response, we will be able to understand what the situation is related to the implementation of this or any other law which, based on our constitutional order, should be implemented in the entire part of the KIM territory. The lack of your response, sir, will mean accepting the independence of KIM, accepting the implementation of Marty Ahtisaari's plan, and that the executive authority, however, is planning to enter into negotiations, as Ischinger noted, is the next phase, with those representing the Republic of Kosovo. Accepting that fact leaves Serbia out of history. If the government, the executive government, accepts in this way to derivate national symbols in the KIM territory, then we have nothing further to talk about, then we have written off 200,000 Serbs who have been exiled from the KIM territory, then we have admitted that Ramush Haradinaj's "hero is a hero", that politician is a couple of excellances with Hashim Thaci, we have acknowledged everything that atrocities are the worst possible species that have happened in relation to the Serb and the loyal Albanian animals, which is organ trafficking, arms trafficking and narcotics, terrible criminal activity, under the auspices of the international community in KIM territory. The lack of answers to these questions, and for every member I will ask you the same question until you answer me, will be a clear signal for us whose interests the executive authority is carrying out, and to this, until I get your answer, I can only say that these are not the interests of the Serb people, that these are not the interests of all those temporarily displaced Serbs living in factory barracks in Serbia's territory. The answer to this question will be the beginning of thinking about a country that should look like a state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17623	On Article 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that this amendment does not comply with the rules of legal normation. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17624	When it comes to this and any subsequent amendment, the answer is that it is not in line with the legal normation, for example, can be a written text for an explanation of why a certain amendment is not accepted, but we expect an oral explanation in which you think there is a parallel law on application, because you have a majority in this assembly, will be voted, all national symbols and what is on 20 February 2008, it seems to me, signed by the president, the self-proclaimed, Assembly of the Republic of Kosovo, Jakub Krasniqi. Among other things, what they very clearly defined before we started to talk about national symbols is how the flag of the state of Kosovo should be placed next to the second flag, in front of the flag, and then, if the national flag of the Republic of Kosovo is highlighted together with two or more other flags, on cross-knives, looking forward, the spear with the flag of the Republic of Kosovo should be placed in front of the digs of these countries. When the national flag stands out with another flag, it stands on the right hand side of the flag of the state of Kosovo. What they envisioned by this law is the representation of public offices of one or more foreign flags, in addition to the flag of the state of Kosovo, which is carried out only in the case of official ceremonies or two or more foreign delegations at a high level and in cases where official agreements are signed. We have diplomatic missions in the territory of the self-called state of Kosovo. We have international meetings that are being held, so I'd like you to tell me how, in front of which national symbols of the state of Kosovo? I am interested in how you will express a protest to all international institutions and representatives of the state in terms of the emphasis of the national symbol of the existing Kosovo state? One of the solutions offered by this parallel law, which operates on the part of the territory in which the Martti Ahtisaari plan is implemented, the Serbian public has the right to know, the people who voted for us in the May elections demand that this be discussed in this way, says that if the flag is set together with other flags, the national flag is in the middle of the circle, in order to highlight the difference and their identification. The right to a different flag is the following institutions: the President of the Republic of Kosovo, the Government of the Republic of Kosovo, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Security Force of the Republic of Kosovo, the Protection Corps of the Republic of Kosovo, the police and the municipalities of the Republic of Kosovo. This is the most interesting, the distinction between the flags defined in the attitude of embraces all others. So the flag of the President of the Republic of Kosovo is the first flag. What we're expecting to hear is when will the executive power, for example, direct a protest to Mr. De Kermabon over the display of national symbols of a non-existent state in KIM territory? That's one of the answers we expect, even until the debate is over in detail on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17625	On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 32, the amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Pelevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17626	I submitted an amendment to Article 35, which, first of all, speaks of the performance of an anthem and I felt that words should be deleted - as a rule. In fact, it is sufficient for an anthem to be performed, and then are the cases when the anthem is performed. As a rule, even though I received in the government's explanation that they do not relativize the concept, they really are Semantically relativating the concept, because an anthem must be performed in certain situations. It is performed and there is no other dilemma, nor the possibility of leaving space in the law to be called to those words if it is not implemented. We are all witnessing that state symbols are being misused in different ways. Mr. Markovic spoke somewhere in December, plowing with one MP, that there are municipalities where they do not stand out, and it is mandatory to highlight the flag of the Republic of Serbia. Those municipalities are still part of Serbia, I won't even talk about Kosovo. So, the words "by the book," they really semantically relativize this member of the law. The hymn is performed in certain situations and there must be no dilemma whether it is performed or not. I remain that this amendment should have been accepted, that it makes this member of the law concrete, direct and applicable in situations where state symbols, coat of arms, flag and anthem must be respected in a certain way. Only our respect, our relationship with our national and state symbols, forces everyone else to apply the same respect. That's what determines us, that's how we're recognizable in the world, that's what everyone needs to get up with respect. We know the significance of the anthem, the importance of the flag and the importance of our coat of arms. We can disagree on some technical solutions, but respect for promoting these national symbols must be... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... Observable and concrete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17627	In the order of reading, and in accordance with the amendments to the members of the law, it was missed to read the amendment to Article 25, which was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17628	I'd just like you to tell me how much time I have at my disposal and that it's scheduled for the Parliament Group. (President: The SRS parliamentary group is available for 46 minutes. One more thing. I'm really embarrassed to speak to a representative of the government with – sir. I missed his last name and function, so if you could just tell me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17629	For that information, we must return to the opening of the session, to repeat the name and name of the Director of the Legislative Directorate or his deputy. Mr. Darko Radojcic, Assistant Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law. It was read when the session was opened. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17630	I really do apologize to you, Mr. Radojcic. I just missed who you really are. Now we've solved that dilemma. You are the assistant director of the Republic Secretariat of Law, here the only one present as we discuss the use of the national symbols of the Serbian state. Just tell me legally - how should the state of Serbia react to the inability to use state symbols in KIM territory? We think, recalling some earlier examples in constitutional practice, that it is a direct attack on the constitutional order of the Serbian state and that there is only one way to react in this regard. It is really difficult to conduct a debate when you know in advance what answers you can get, in fact, that you will get silence from the executive government's representatives, because the practical state of the KIM territory is such that, as at least the representatives of the US administration say, a return to the previous state is impossible, that independence is an irrevocable process and that there is no discussion in this context of status. We are aware of the fact that the International Court of Justice should decide by majority vote that it is an illegal act. on our side, conditionally speaking, filed submissions. We fear there may be a negative response to the question raised before the International Court of Justice, for a simple reason, which is the increased diplomatic activity of the US and Brussels administration, in the context of recognising an independent KIM. I assume you're an expert lawyer. I ask – how should the impact on Serbia's constitutional order be addressed, in terms of the inability to implement members and provisions of this proposal for a law at the part of KIM? I look forward to the answer. While we are already at the use of the symbols, which they have provided for by their law on the use of national symbols, it is also very interesting for us to hear how you will, in what way, sanction the parallel implementation, or implementation of this law alone? The inability to place national symbols on KIM territory is perhaps the answer to the question why certain stronger criminal measures are not provided for and, otherwise, criminal measures for the destruction of national symbols anywhere, especially in KIM territory, because then you should punish EU and UN representatives, because they allow some illegal representatives to exhibit their national symbols. Not to paraphrasise what is in their law on the use of national symbols, our bill is very clear. We tried to influence the amendments, but they were not legally valid to be considered in a certain way. Basically, I hope this is a valid debate, within which we will receive qualified answers, and we hope to announce certain protests in relation to what is happening in KIM territory. In Article 14, when it comes to the intonation of the Kosovo state anthem, the state anthem of the Republic of Kosovo is performed at official celebrations, on international activities, where our country is as a party, as well as in other cases foreseen by law. '"When an anthem is performed, it stands still. It's never performed in public spaces without a flag, extremely, when played on television or on radio. The hymn can be intonated for the official celebration, when the President of the Republic of Kosovo leaves the territory of Kosovo abroad and for the return of the Republic of Kosovo, for the arrival and monitoring of representatives of foreign states or of their top officials, or authorised representatives of international organisations, when the weddings are held by official representatives of the Republic of Kosovo, or representatives of foreign international organisations, to monuments, to the cemetery of heroes, etc. Every resident of the Republic of Kosovo has the right to sing an anthem. '" I ask you, which anthem sings? Is that an intonation of "God of Justice" or some other anthem? When it comes to the order of intonating or performing Kosovo's national anthem along with another country's anthem, it has the advantage of an anthem of another country; during an official visit by a foreign president or prime minister, an escort is carried out by intonating, or by performing both countries' national anthems. Kosovo's anthem is performed after a friendly anthem. What should be interesting to the Serbian public, it has been denied official response and media attention in this regard. With the intention of making a parallel between illegal acts of Kosovo's illegal state and what we're talking about today, which is the only topic, as part of Article 7. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is interesting to hear if President Tadic, when visiting the High Decans, had national symbols of the state of Serbia in his car as part of his official escort? Also, what the public of Serbia should know and hear from you, because you have taken responsibility to defend this bill, and thus to answer these questions – how do international delegations and diplomatic representatives react to the intonation of the Anthem of the Republic of Kosovo, and not "God of Justice"? It is essential, I suppose, that this exists, that the inability to have an insight into the submission that the state of Serbia has sent to the International Court of Justice opens up the possibility that, perhaps now in my mind, I am speaking of these things, but it would be frantic if it had not entered into the submission that we have sent to the International Court of Justice, asking in a legitimate and legal way that international institutions respond to the protection of the constitutional order of a sovereign country. If it isn't, that's also a good enough answer, if it is, that's better. We hope that, perhaps, in some distant or near future, we can fight to preserve national symbols in KIM territory, but certainly not this government. This power has already been established in relation to that. Why? Because you've missed every possible chance to react. With that in mind, I would really like to hear your official response – did the situation occur that the intonated Kosovo anthem, the flag raised, the Kosovo coat of arms placed in all Serbian cities in the KIM territory, and did Serbia send an official protest note for anything, that it protested in any way? If so, we'd like to see the text of that official protest. If it isn't, then this agenda is completely missed and then this government is only carrying out the interests of the American and Brussels administrations. Serbian interest is for Serbian national symbols to be on KIM territory, therefore, in Pristina, Peća, Decan, Djakovica, Uroševec. On that day, when the Serbian flag turns, on that day we have Serbia present in all of our territory, on that day we can proudly tell our citizens that the Constitution and constitutional provisions are being implemented on the entire territory of the Serbian state and that day, indeed, we can highlight our flag on all possible masts around the world. Until that happens, what the SRS requires is that the Serbian flag does not stand next to the flags of those countries that have recognised an independent KIM. Also, what we require of all those who have not recognised it is that in front of certain international institutions, and at the executive government's initiative, they express their strong protest, protesting that Serbian President must announce himself to enter Kosovo, which Serbian ministers must announce to enter Kosovo, which any MPs are not very welcome in Kosovo's territory. I would also like to see you in a car that will carry a Serbian flag, let's say, riding on the Pec-Decani line, what it will look like. I remember when we passed, on that line, on the Great Lady, in the van of the bishop Theodosia, what reactions the locals caused the self-mantium of the Orthodox bishop, the bishop; I don't want to talk to you, but we got our heads out well. Also, with that mantium, despite that mantium, we couldn't go to the Serbian cemetery in Peća, because then the Spanish administration told us to risk our safety. I ask you, when on the cars of Serbian state officials will stand an official flag and that they normally carry out their activities, say, in Pristina, without risking to be beheaded, as Orthodox priests and monks pass, holding their liturgies, from the High Decan, the Pećka Patriarchy, to all Serb shrines. What we can tell you, because we have been on Kosovo's territory several times, especially Metohija, is that Serbian national symbols for those who have declared Kosovo and Metohija independent are an allergic sign, and a symbol for rebellion. Also, to this day, we have not heard of anyone being arrested who burned Serbian shrines during the March pogroms in 2004. Why did they burn them? To burn the centuries-old presence of the Serbian medieval state, what it is is the heart of Serbia, which is Kosovo and Metohija. The theme is not easy at all, not easy at all. It is very likely that it is difficult for you to listen to all this that I am talking about, because the answers that you could give, and yet they are in line with the topic we are talking about, are not the answers that need to be told to the Serbian public. We say that the Serbian public must know that diplomatic missions in Pristina are conducting negotiations under the national symbols of the so-called. The states of Kosovo, which was formed over Serbian blood and the blood of those Albanians who were loyal to the constitutional order of the Serbian state. That's what the Serbian public has the right to know. We hope that during this debate, at least at the end of the debate, and yet interactive communication works, we will hear at least some of the answers to all these questions that we are trying to ask right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17631	On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Pelevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 38, the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Pelevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 41, the amendment is, on the basis of Article 141(3). Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Justice and Administration Committee. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 41, amendments submitted by the National MPs Aleksandar Martinović, Dejan Mirović, Bojan Mladenovic, Momir Marković, Sladjan Mijaljević, Goran Mihajlović, Ljubisa Petković, Milan Nikolic, Mirko Munjic, Sreto Perić, Dusan Marić, Marko Milenković, Paja Momčović, Vladija Milojković, Vesna Marić, Dušanka Plečević, Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljevic, Milorad Krstin, Tomislav Ljubenović, Ljubomir Kragović, Boris Kragović, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Milan Avramović, Jadranko Vuković, Milan Vjeljinović, Momcilo Duvnjak, Dragan Todorović, Dragan Aćimović, Milorad Buh, Branimir Djokić, Dragan Djokić, Dragan Živić, Dragan Živić Živić, Vladić Živić, Vladić, Vladić Živić, Jokić, Jokić, Jokić and Jokić. According to Article 143, paragraphs 5 and 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if several MPs from the same parliamentary group submit amendments which are identical, will be deemed to be one of the same amendments submitted by several MPs and, in that case, the right to explain that amendment on behalf of the applicants only has one of the Members of Parliaments signed, for up to two minutes. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee proposes that these amendments be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers them legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17632	If my colleagues were present, you would certainly have had the opportunity, Mr. Radojcic, to hear in a very qualified and more detailed manner a broader explanation of the amendments submitted by the SRS, by trying to make this law clearer and more precise, and in particular, it should be said without delay, in terms of criminal provisions, which are later likely to be spoken of, to impose sanctions on anyone who does not respect the members of this bill, given that, as you have the opportunity to hear, the subject is law enforcement in the territory of KIM. Citizens who voted for us, therefore, for the SRS list, Dr Vojislav Seselj, voted in favour of a list that said "Serbia has no alternative". We then gave an answer and a projection of what could happen exactly in the sense of kiM. Why are we talking about Kosovo and Metohija? You will agree, it is indeed the heart of the medieval state and represents, according to UN resolutions and the final acts of all international institutions that have the power to decide, the continuity of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. At some point, someone decided to do so in the territorial integrity and state sovereignty, or to strike the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. As you know, I don't need to remind you, in the preamble of the Serbian constitution, that KIM is an integral part of the state of Serbia. Even then, we felt that it was not the happiest solution to just stand in the preamble. What stems from all this is that all other members of the Constitution, i.e. all state attributes, are being implemented in the entire territory of KIM. Why do we, when we talk about this and when it comes to any legal proposal, ask only one question: will the law be enforceable in the territory of KIM? Because the answer to that question answers all questions. I know that many columnists, even here present, will say that this is a topic that comes out of the context of this debate, but it is not, this is the only topic to be discussed, because we in KIM territory have a law that speaks of national symbols and are not Serbian national symbols, and behind that law, ladies and gentlemen, stand the United States and the United Kingdom. Why? The response was received by the president of the DS on March 23rd, at a regular Security Council session, when he tried to protect national symbols, tried to protect territorial integrity when he came to our positions in 1999. They also tried to do so many before him, all those who were sentenced to so much in The Hague to be executed and given the legitimacy of KIM's independence. What did he get from the diplomatic representatives of Great Britain and America then? Kosovo is independent. That's beyond pay-per-view. Martti Ahtisaari's plan is being implemented in KIM territory. Years ago, we were here, and we're not going to repeat ourselves, the American, Washington administration invested hundreds of thousands and millions of dollars in KIM. Do you want to talk about the EU budget for KIM, exactly the part of the territory that derogates this law we're talking about today? So we can put this law on the table, because the government has no answer to this question. We won't be able to carry him out in the Kim part, not just this one, none other, but this one is harder and more painful because the subnational symbols are at stake, because it's all about what makes each one of us. That's why the representatives of the government aren't here, and that's why it's very embarrassing for Mr. Radojcic to listen to me, probably by calling him off on this subject, but I'm glad this exists, which is the only medium in this place, and the only one that can talk about this. It is outrageous that Parliament is half empty when it comes to such important things. Does this mean that the ruling coalition turns its back on the president of the DS when it comes to this? Who will stand in defense of national symbols - one radical? Was that an idea? There's over a million votes behind this one radical. In a period of crisis, be assured, for a man who loses everything every day, from existence, from social security, who doesn't know what his country is, in which part of the territory it stretches, national identity will be significant, if not the most significant, as is very important to all those who lost it by someone's decision, and it wasn't a Serbian decision. For that, ladies and gentlemen, your president is trying to fight now. In what way? He can't go to KIM with his flag, intonate his anthem, which the Cypriot authorities won't say to him, "Well, now you can." He wouldn't tell us that. The Kosovo diaries gave it to us. So, the Serbian public has been denied an explanation, a response to the specific situation in which we are all in. You don't think this is a significant thing. This is a question of a couple of excellencies. If we don't have it, so the state doesn't protect us everywhere, we won't have the opportunity to stand proud in any international institution, because there's a part that's going to sneak into international institutions, so a representative of the Republic of Kosovo will come to you, and what are you going to do then? He will come with his diplomatic escort, the flag of the Republic of Kosovo will be on that car. So, what then? You want to talk to him? Well, that means you've given your hand to those who wrote off 200,000 exiled Serbs, so many crimes that Carla del Ponte, later on, talks about. That means you've written all of us off. Do you understand the historic moment, which is significant? So, the decision this year, and on you is the greatest responsibility possible. We tried to do it, we protected the constitutional order, what all states have a right to. We've got the "merciful angel." Your president was in front of a "merciful angel" in the Security Council. How many of you know that? He got a slap from representatives of Britain and America and drank the auto goal. It's the scariest fact possible. And who's talking about it in Serbia? Radicals. So if we're talking about national interest, he's not here. We cannot know here, because there is no representative of the executive government when we talk in particular about such an important issue, when, on which day our flag will be envied in Pristina. How do we express a protest, say, to the American Embassy here? Where does everyone have the right to speak to representatives of the Republic of Kosovo in Serbian territory? That's why we're talking about it today this way, because the Serbian public needs to know that we've been kidnapped by a peaceful dream, dignity, economy, everything, Americans and the British on the territory of Europe. It's the only truth and you know it, just because they've funded the collapse of the previous regime well. You can't say that. One way you'll be able to react is to admit an independent kiM, by entering into negotiations with him. That should be said to the Serbian public, that you, even if you will, we were in your shoes, you will not be able to give a different answer, because then you have a situation where the state summit of Serbia will be indicted in front of some tribunal, only because it defended national symbols, national dignity and constitutional order of the country. Now I'm asking you, to reverse the situation, that in the territory of the United Kingdom, of any Western European democracy, anyone trying to do anything like that, how would it go? What would be the answer to their state summit? There is no American propaganda film that first of all does not envy the American flag, which does not create a myth about the American president, as an institution, which does not intonate an anthem, which does not speak of the American being most important that these symbols represent him, no matter where he is. In KIM territory, Serb national symbols have been exiled. Who banished them? The U.S. administration. What we are told is that the plan of Martti Ahtisaari is being implemented in KIM territory and that the Albanians need to be negotiated, and we are entering the next phase, which is the Ischinger - division of Kosovo and de facto recognition, and goodbye. How small does Serbia have to be in order not to be large – precumenical, Belgrade pasture, how much? You're going to tell us that we've caused, by bad policy, such a relationship of the international public towards us, that that's why you're now suffering our moves. That's not true, you're right now where we've been. Remember, Milosevic was an American factor in stability. The Americans were allies to him; because he trusted them, that's how it went. Also, we will ask Mr Radojcic, for example, how he thinks to place a two-headed non-deficient coat of arms when in chapter 3, bearing the title – the coat of arms of the Republic of Kosovo, says it is placed at the entrance of state institutions, together with their title, in all official acts, in the seals of state institutions, in the documentation and in the interstate agreements of the Republic of Kosovo, based on reciprocity. When it comes to the use of coat of arms, it is exclusively the right of state authorities, and is used as a sign of identification, in seals, in presses, in official documents and in the signs of state authorities, in civil status documents and in personal documents, in diplomas and testimonies of the completed school, for the designation of the state border, in areas of border crossings, in state bodies, as well as in the premises of these bodies. There's no two-headed minor coat of arms around here. Then, ''in the premises and buildings where the head office of state authorities is located, as well as in the premises of these bodies, in the premises and buildings of diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Kosovo outside the Republic and in the means of transport used by the management of representative offices, in accordance with international agreements; in the seal, in the press, in the specified documentation of the authorities of local communities when performing specific tasks, i.e. tasks from the state jurisdiction; in stamps, printings of documentation of enterprises and other organisations, as well as in private, when they have public authority to carry out specific tasks, i.e. certain tasks from national authorities; in calls, cards, such as official identification cards used by the presidents of the Republic of Kosovo, the President of the Assembly of the Republic of Kosovo, prime ministers, ministers, in calls, greetings, cards, similar official identification cards used by Members, officials, officials, officials of the Governments of the Governments of the Republic of Kosovo and the Republic of Kosovo, where other institutions are represented by other institutions and the so called. The coat of arms shall also refer to aircraft and other public means of transport, according to the terms and conditions laid down in the provisions of the general legal acts, on other occasions and in conditions when determining the law. You'll probably be surprised now, and I'll ask you the same question again. This only convinces us that what Americans have created in Kosovo and Metohija will be introduced into all international manifestations, cultural and sports activities, any other activities. How will the executive authority react, exactly, to the use of the national symbols of the artificial formations of the American administration? What kind of way will you, say, if you happen to participate and be representatives of the KIM territory, react when their anthem is intonated and when their coat of arms is represented, when their airline is built, say? Now we can make projections, because this is a frame. This is what money is all about. It's not a secret, there's an official document, the Senate, nicely adopted, as much as the US administration invests in Kosovo's budget on an annual basis. A budget for the EU, or representatives of the EU for Kosovo's territory, means that it will help create institutions in the KIM territory, will make them a state. It is clear to us why this is so, regardless of what we were and how often they argued with Serbia, they will never have allies for this rampage. They need Albanians downstairs to implement what is of interest, because it is a geostrategically important place to approach Russia. We hear Bondsteel's gonna replace the Air Force base. It is the course of many significant roads, from resources, to drug trafficking and other things. So, a very important point for the American administration. If that weren't the case, Bondsteel wouldn't be set up as the second base in the world, if it weren't for that, the Americans wouldn't be making artificial work in our territory. What we would like to hear, is – how will you sanction the implementation of these members on the use, say, of the coat of arms, of Kosovo's state anthem, and in light of the provisions of the laws that we are discussing today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17633	On Article 42, amendments, which, according to the assessment of the Legislative Committee, were submitted by the Members of Parliament: Tomislav Ljubenović, Slobodan Vuković, Branimir Đokić, Natasa Jovanovic, Milorad Krstin, Radiša Ilic, Zoran Krasić, Marina Ragus, Lidija Vukić, Petar Jojić, Vesna Marić, Vitomir Plužarić, Dušanka Plečević, Dragan Živkov, Nikola Žutić, Vladan Jeremic, Radica Jocić, Vjerica Rade, Sulejman Spaho, Paja Momčalov, Dobrislav Prelić, Srboljubovljan Živić, Gordana Pavnović, Gordana Pavenović, Marko Milenković, Dusan Marić, Milorad Buhojković, Government of Milojković, Momcilo and Momč Duvnjak, Srić Mira Miljan Mužanović, Mirović, Mra Miljanović, Mra Miljanović, Ljubinović, Ljubinović, Ljubinović, Ljubović, Mra Milić. According to Article 143, paragraphs 5 and 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if several MPs from the same parliamentary group submit amendments which are identical by their content, will be deemed to be one of the same amendments submitted by several MPs and, in that case, the right to explain that amendment on behalf of the applicants shall be deemed to have only one of the signed Members of Parliament for a period of two minutes. The government has not accepted these amendments. The Justice and Administration Committee proposes that these amendments be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers them legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17634	It is clear to me that this question should be answered, let's say, by the minister, who is the authority to finally give an answer. Now I will ask you one question and I will not say anything further about this amendment – will a member of this law be implemented in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? Please, Mr. Radojciæi, give me that answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17635	On Article 42, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment does not comply with Article 33. The law of violations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17636	Dear Vice-Presidents, before I explain in these two minutes, as far as I have the right, this amendment, I would like to tell both you and all the citizens of Serbia that the absence of the competent ministers for this law is considered, we from the NS, with a kind of disrespect and coat of arms and anthem and the flag of the state of Serbia. I have submitted an amendment to Article 42: ''In Article 42, following Article 3, item 4, which reads: 'The fine of 50,000 to 100,000 dinars will punish the person responsible for the violation of the legal personality for the non-extinguishing of the coat of arms or the flag of the Republic of Serbia in the position provided for by this law. '"As you said, the amendment was rejected, but there are very interesting reasons. The government has not accepted the amendment, without justification, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, without justification. The Legislative Committee considers that this amendment does not comply with Article 33. The law on violations, which would mean that such acts, better said, are punishable by the misdemeanour of state symbols under the Law of Infractions. Since there are no ministers here to answer us how many people in the past year have been punished for burning and tearing up our country's national flag, and Mr Radojcic, apparently, according to the Business, has no right, we will be denied that answer, and we have been witnesses, and in the media we have seen that in some municipalities, especially in southern Serbia, the national flag does not stand out. That is why the NS Parliamentary Group, i.e. on its behalf, has submitted this amendment. We're not so clear as to why some act sanctioned could not be sanctioned by two laws. What's stopping someone? Would we be more sanctioned by this burning or desecration of our national flag? I just want to remind you that in the premises of OO NS in The Tower, two years ago, the flag of the state was set on fire, and to this day we didn't get any answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17637	On Article 43, the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17638	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Vice President, amendment to Article 43. The bill on the appearance and use of coat of arms, flags and anthem of the Republic of Serbia, which I submitted before the Parliament's Group 'Forward Serbia', refers to the safeguards, or criminal measures provided for in this bill. Although the president of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, said that SNS MPs would vote in favour of this bill, regardless of the fact that certain solutions are not quite acceptable, it does not mean that you cannot improve this and such a bill by accepting amendments to our parliamentary group. The specific amendment refers to the confiscation of the cases of offenders from Articles 41 and 42 of this proposal of the law, where it is more precisely defined in which cases it may be, in which case it is mandatory to withdraw the case, i.e. flag or coat of arms. The fact is that the flag, coat of arms and anthem, as part of their national identity, must be respected. I believe that 90% of the population loves or at least respects their markings, but unfortunately, the fact is that they treat these markings recklessly. An eclectic example is our citizen who burned the flag at last year's football championship in Europe; it was true, it was not the flag of the state of Serbia, it was the state of Austria. Of course, he was arrested immediately and was followed by Austrian legislation. Why am I telling you this? I'd have to agree with some of the previous speakers in the fact that I think you all know that Hollywood filmmakers simply have an obligation, whether it's films A productions, B productions or independent productions, to highlight the American flag already in the first minutes of the film. I think we could learn a lot from the U.S., as much as we don't like them. Only in the state of Serbia can happen, I believe in some African countries... (President: Two minutes. Can I go on? (President: here you go. The only thing that can happen, as I said, in the state of Serbia and in some, I suppose, African countries, is that someone can burn the flag and go unpunished. The amendment I have made is a small step towards greater respect for the national symbols of the Serbian state. I think you should accept it as the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17639	On Article 43, the amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Proposal to add a new member. National MP Miroslav Markicevic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 43a be added after article 43a. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment does not comply with Article 43. The law of violations. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17640	Dear Vice-President, this amendment to Article 43, where I propose that Article 43a be added, reads: "The fine of 50,000 to 100,000 dinars will be fined for the violation of a natural person if it is proven to damage the coat of arms or the flag of the Republic of Serbia or casts out the mockery of the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia". I cannot believe this amendment was rejected, especially by being rejected with the same text as the previous amendment. So the government didn't accept the amendment, no reason. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected without justification, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment does not comply with Article 33. The law of violations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17641	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17642	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. That's exactly what the SRS has been talking about for months and all the time we've been talking about and discussing this bill, as well as other bill proposals. Mr Markicevic has justifiably reacted in the way we consider him to be the only one. What I would like to say to Mr Markic, as well as to the general public in Serbia, is that in a parallel legal act, which implements, most likely, the Cypriot national symbols on kidnapped Serbian territory, in Article 17, among other things, is said to be fined in the amount of 500 to 1,000 euros, when the use of the coat of arms or flag contrary to a member of this law, coat of arms or flag in the form or content that is not provided for by this law and regulations which are in force, the flag or the flag stands out in a public place, if it does not use the coat of arms or flag when the use is mandatory, the execution of an anthem of the Republic of Kosovo contrary to the member, also, this law and regulations which are in force. For a violation of Article 1's stance, fines ranging from 250 euros to 500 euros and a responsible official are imposed. On account of the violation of Article 1, fines ranging from 250 to 500 euros are imposed on the responsible public authorities. A fine of 150 to 300 euros punishes a natural person for violating the laws of this member of the law. What is evident and the Serbian public also needs to know is that it is very likely that those who wrote members, or made proposals for the law on the use of national symbols, did not have in mind this, which I hope we presented very closely, and that it works in parallel on the territory of KIM. I suppose that most of the MPs present here have never had the opportunity to see this law on the use of national symbols of artificial creation, completely illegal, such as the Republic of Kosovo, and what's a shame, it is that the proposer has not adopted such an amendment. The fact that they exist in some other legal acts, other legal solutions, does not mean that this bill should not be very clear and that it clearly indicates that the state of Serbia is implementing this law in the whole territory, that the state of Serbia is encouraging that national symbols are treated with dignity and that the state of Serbia sanctions anyone who dares to treat national symbols in any unworthy way. The fact that today in this environment, in this way, with the Assistant Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, we are having a debate in particular, is also the relationship of the executive authority to what it will say, firstly, the opposition. Also, no one here is either naive or limited, they could expect what kind of questions the opposition will raise, but the representatives of the authorities, who are the property of having a conversation on this subject, we're quite confident about that, have avoided showing up here. We're even afraid of the answers we're going to get in some future period. We will investigate that the ruling majority that makes the government official answers to all these questions that we have asked today, during this debate, but what matters most to us, is that there is this way, this is, however, the only place where power and opposition meet. Such discussions are being held in many European parliaments, and that is how they are being led when it comes to the protection of national dignity and national symbols, and how campaigns promoting national dignity in all serious countries are being conducted, we remain deprived of the response that those who impose standards on us impoverish the Serbian economy, the citizens are being thrown on their knees, are directly behind the impact on the constitutional order of the Serbian state. It's very likely that this isn't a significant institute to you, but you'll see, I guess, when the time comes, there's no more important institute for one country than protecting constitutional order. We here today look only at images in front of our eyes, through concrete examples and legal solutions, through the existence of parallel institutions, that those who judged us literally took the right to enforce this law in the work of Kosovo and Metohija. This was all a particular speculation, a political one, as some would say, a slap on the subject, that we do not have concrete moves and concrete answers in the most significant places, and especially in that part of the territory that has been taken from Serbia, not by Serbian will, but, under the auspices of the most powerful forces, an ethnically changed structure in the territory of KIM, a fully criminal power has been implemented, which will carry out the interests of these administrations, and you will see how the debate will be held before the International Court of Justice. What was their argument earlier, a humanitarian disaster, first of all, was done to the Serbian people, which has no way of returning to the territory of KIM, there is no possibility of spreading a beautiful Serbian tricolor, there is no possibility of standing upright and dignified to the intonation of the anthem "God of Justice", there is no possibility of admireing a two-headed non-malgamous eagle on all state institutions. It is a fact that I think no one in Serbia should be indifferent. The SRS will advocate, or will always ask only one question – when, at what point will the laws proposed in this assembly be implemented in the part of the KIM territory, when will the executive authority in Serbia give a protest to all those and sanction all those who derogate national symbols? That is the subject of today's debate. What we will insist on is the return of traditional Serbian territories and the constitutional order of the Serbian state. In what way? Peaceful, political and diplomatic means. The moment you give the protest to De Kermabon, who received a representative of the illegal government with national symbols completely foreign to Serbia, we will know that you are carrying out Serbian interests. It's not happening and it's not going to happen in the foreseeable future, because if it did, it would have happened already. We can, fully convinced, say that you do not exercise Serbian interests in Serbian territory. US and British national interests are being implemented in Serbian territory, and that is a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17643	The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17644	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Representative of the Ministry, I am truly surprised that Mr Markovic is not present today because he had the opportunity to intervene in this debate in particular, accepting some amendments, and I think that both amendments to Mr Miroslav Markevic, which he submitted on behalf of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, and to Article 42 and Article 43, amendments that would make this law, above all, dignified. This law only shyly sanctions a non-essential phenomenon – if the state symbols, flag or coat of arms, which apply to a state institution, are damaged, although it is something that happens during the application and is competent to do so successfully and in good time, unless it is a matter of natural disasters, they themselves remove. However, two key things that Mr. Markovic was speaking very publicly and very clearly about during the winter debates say that there are municipalities where there are deliberately no state symbols. He spoke very openly about these municipalities that are taking money for their needs from the government of the Republic of Serbia, and welcome the minister with deliberately undisclosed state symbols. These two amendments. It is precisely preventing further devastation of the Serbian state, further collapse of our national symbols and humiliation of the Republic of Serbia by such separatist forces. I just want to get an answer from Mr. Markovic – what, after visiting these municipalities where he saw this phenomenon, specifically took over and how were those who were in charge of pointing out state symbols sanctioned? As they have been sanctioned so far, on the basis of which these amendments have been rejected, it shows, in fact, how much this government cares about the state, how much it cares about its dignity and how much, in general, we can expect this government to protect the national and all other interests of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17645	Thank you. Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, do the proposing representatives want to give the final word? The word is for Mrs. Ragush. I'm sorry, I have suggestions, under Article 43, that you are not within the time provided for and for you, as a representative, and for the parliamentary group you used your right, so you did stay for a few minutes, but now, as an authorised representative, you can't speak anymore. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd point of the agenda – PROPOST OF THE LAW OF DIVILJA, PRODUCTION, SLAZISTANCE AND USE OF THE HEMJEMJAK WEAPS AND ABOUT NJEGOVO UNISTAVANJU (individuals) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Milan Avramović, Dragan Aćimović, Bojan Mladenov, Sladjan Mijaljević, Ljubić, Aleksandar To Martinović, Milan M. Niković, Mirko Munjic, Goran Mihajlović, Petar Jojić, Ognjen Mihajlović, Branimir Đokić, Marko Miljanović, Ljubljanović, Ljubović, Vesna Marić, Zoran Krastinić, Momar Marković, Mojić, Paja Momčilić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radović Žović, Živić Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić, MilJ. You have received the Report of the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. I remind you that the Legislative Committee has rejected, as incomplete, the amendment of MP Branimir Djokic to Article 30. The draft law, and he, in accordance with Article 148(3). The Rules of Procedure, they will not be discussed. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. At the title of Glava 1, above Article 1, and on Article 1 of the amendment, which, according to the evaluation of the Legislative Committee, were submitted by MPs Milan Avramovic and Dragan Acimovic. According to Article 143, paragraphs 5 and 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in which case, the right to state that amendment on behalf of the applicants shall have only one of the Members of Parliaments signed, for up to two minutes. The government is proposing that the amendments be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers these amendments legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 1, amendments submitted by MPs Sladjan Mijaljević, Paja Momčilov and Lidija Dimitrijevic, according to the assessment of the Legislative Committee. According to Article 143, paragraphs 5 and 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if several MPs from the same parliamentary group submit amendments, in that case, in accordance with these members, the right to explain that amendment on behalf of the applicants shall have only one of the Members of Parliaments signed, for a period of up to two minutes. The government is proposing that the amendments be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers these amendments legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments, which, according to the assessment of the Legislative Committee, were submitted by the MPs Bojan Mladenovic, Aleksandar Martinović, Milan M. Nikolic, Mirko Munjic, Goran Mihajlović, Petar Jojić, Ognjen Mihajlović, Branimir Đokić, Marko Milenković, Ljubisa Petković, Vesna Marić, Milorad Krstin, Zoran Krasic, Momar Marković, Sreto Perić, Radiša Ilic, Natasa Jovanovic, Tomislav Ljubenović, Dušanka Pljević, Srboljub Živanovic, Gordana Pavnović-Milosvljevic, Nikola Žutić, Dragan Živić, Vladan Jeremic, Dusan Marić, Momcilo Duvnjak, Vladjan Milojković, Radica Jocic, Dejan Mirović and Ljubomir Kragović, were submittededan. According to Article 143, paragraphs 5 and 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in which case, the right to state that amendment on behalf of the applicants shall have only one of the signed, or signatories, Members of Parliament, for up to two minutes. The government is proposing that the amendments be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that these amendments are not in line with the confirmed Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Extermination (‘the Official Journal — International Treaties’, No 2.00). Does anyone want a word? (Yes) There's a word Mrs. Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17646	What I'd like, before I move on to this explanation, first, to find out something, as an authorised representative, since I wasn't clear about this earlier, and I don't have a business opportunity, except to risk being thrown out upside down, so now I'm wasting this time. So, an authorised representative has time that he can use throughout the debate in detail and, when you ask, which is quite logical, in the end – does any of the authorised representatives want to say something, then he doesn't have the right?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17647	No, you're right all along, but that time is 15 minutes and you've spent it. After that, you also used the time of your parliamentary group, which is 68 minutes. You haven't used that time, but you have no right to it in the end. So now you can plead that you want to use 68 minutes first, and then use that time to the end. You just didn't make your statement, and now you can talk about this point, if you want. Is that what you want? Tell us so we know.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17648	It's just a statement and a definition of the time someone wants to use. Of course, I will use, but only a fraction of this time foreseen for an authorised representative on this agenda point. I welcome the representatives of the RES. I'm glad that, at least we'll have a chance to discuss the subject of the proposed law in public. As a contribution to this debate, I have tried to study this annual report that you, with delay, have delivered to us. Certain findings of this report will, of course, be the subject of the debate in the proposed set of environmental laws in particular, because I believe that certain environmental incidents have been given and certain resources have been invested in order to bring these incidents back to life. What was left behind and what we were denied to know, and it was necessary for the debate and for this point of the agenda, is – how much is the damage on today, expressed in mathematical, or financial values, caused by disregard for the provisions of earlier laws, so before the law was passed? How, for example, will this bill be implemented in the territory of KIM? For now, I'd use this much time, and I'd leave the rest of the time for further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17649	Thank you. On Article 1, amendments which, according to the Legislative Committee's assessment, are identical according to their content... I'm sorry, Mrs. Vojic-Markovic Milica has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17650	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as an authorised representative of the DSS, I have signed up to speak, and first I would like to say a few words at all about what we've been talking about this first set of laws. So, we have spoken publicly from the DSS several times, and we felt that it was time that we were denied the time to talk about such important laws, because some of these laws before us are system laws and laws that first regulate one area, which is very important, we are talking right, but in this way – in a united debate, in a shortened procedure, in a shortened time. We feel that this is not the right way, nor is it the way we will give the ecology the place it belongs to. I must remind myself that this first set of laws, which we are now discussing under the amendments, is very important: the first law on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction, the second is the proposal for a law on protection against non-ionising radiation, the third is the bill on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety, the fourth is the proposal for a law on chemicals, the fifth is the proposal for a law on biocidal products, the sixth is the bill on waste management and the seventh – the bill on packaging and packaging waste. I cite them because I want to point out that there are seven of them, to point out how important they are and to discuss them in this way now. Actually, I want to make a point of the problems that I gave you when I spoke in principle. So MPs in this short time should consider such problems. The first, which is the first because it is in the first law that is before us, is, in fact, the consequences of the chemical war that we had in Serbia in 1999, because NATO bombed us, which some now say is "our only chance". Thank God, my party is not saying that this is our big chance, but that this is the greatest danger that Serbia wants to get into. So, this chemical war has caused a lot of problems, of which the contamination of the terrain is just one. The other, which we speak very shyly of as a state, and which is why we should talk about and why the DSS MPs speak of it in this way, is the use and consequences of the poored uranium on human health. We want, first of all, to initiate that the Ministry of Health is talking about this problem and to offer a health control system, first of all, participants in the war, as well as citizens who have been exposed to the fact of the poored uranium in cities that are being targeted. So it's a very serious problem and that problem someone has to open up. He cannot be spoken of in part, and he cannot be anyone's exclusive right, to keep him quiet or to speak of him. I again call on the Ministry of Health, the minister, above all, to look again at the report that some prominent doctors were doing, above all, radiologist Kovacevic. It would be interesting to compare the data with other data provided by authorised institutes and to come out with one system of measures, as each responsible country does, and Serbia, unfortunately, under this government - is neither a responsible country nor is the government responsible. The next part of the problem concerns this law on non-ionizing radiation. I see the minister, as I speak, using his cell phone; he can now be irradiated by non-ionating rays. So that's one of the problems that comes up. Citizens are particularly interested in how big a problem can be caused by their health – mobile phone base stations. I remind you that some were built, right, in the settlements. I'm talking about it because it's close to me. In Divchibara, in the middle of the resort, a base station was built during the war. In fact, citizens would just be absolutely sure how the state thinks to protect them from all this. We all have radios, we all have TVs, we talk shyly about how big a problem that is. I think this law should be discussed that way, so that citizens can be familiar with it. It is particularly interesting that solariums, as summer goes on, are increasingly in use, and are a major problem for the health of the population. The problems that need to be solved by the law on ionising radiation are some 1,300 thunders, which are a big problem and about which to open the story over and over again, responsible to say how big a problem they are, how much they affect health, what the state can do, at what rate it can do, because it is something that is very important for the health of this population, because most of the lightning can be found on residential buildings, and some new laws have left us without any way to communicate with people living in buildings. There's a big problem with the X-rays. People are rightly concerned about that. This law gives them the opportunity and regulates this radiation, and that is why it is important to be spoken of in this way. What is also a big problem is a problem with the transit of nuclear materials. We often have a problem. I keep following the media when the incidents on Serbia's territory appear. One of the last was some kind of radioactive iron, which was stopped, thank God, in the wagons, somewhere on the border with Bulgaria. It's a big problem and we from the DSS have proposed some amendments in that direction. We think the sentences are low and they need to be increased. At least we are aware that other laws regulate the level of punishment, but we simply think that we should think and open this question whenever possible. The next topic is waste management. In Serbia, we have no control over what can and cannot be postponed to dumps. At the dumps, we have radioactive thunderbolts, which represent problems not only for those who collect secondary waste, but also much wider. What is a big and biggest problem, I think, because Serbia has no integrated data on the production, method of disposal and quantity of waste, is the fact that some 2.2 million tonnes of waste are collected annually in Serbia. About 63% is household waste, 20% is harmless industrial waste, but all that remains, which is quite a percentage, 17%, is waste from health institutions, slaughterhouses, construction waste, waste from oil wells in Vojvodina, and that's how dangerous waste is. It is therefore important to open this topic whenever possible. Unfortunately, in Parliament, DSS MPs can talk about problems like this in a short time. What is still a major problem with Serbia and why it is important to speak publicly is that we have about 180 registered municipal waste dumps. They can't even be called municipal dumps, because they don't meet technical-sanitary conditions, but they're the only ones, except Vranj, for use, although they're not entirely adequate. According to the project's Dangerous Medical Waste Management Plan, 230 to 460 thousand tonnes of hazardous medical and industrial waste are produced annually in Serbia. Medical waste has been taking care of in an adequate way in recent years, but the needs are high and I think the state should help, once again, the Ministry of Health, the work of this ministry. On the other hand, there is waste of motor oils, mixed organic-conducted emulsion. Until yesterday, it was all gone and delayed at the municipal dumps, unfortunately. Another data, Serbia, with about 138kg of industrial waste produced per thousand dollars of GDP, falls within the ranks of high-intensity waste-making countries. I'm still mentioning that the big problem with transit is waste. This is something that the state is facing continuously and I think it is important to have a public debate and to talk continuously about it, as well as public hearings in Parliament on this subject. The following problems are in the field of packaging and packaging waste laws. It's a very complicated and expensive system, with a lot of link in the chain, and that's why it's very important to talk about it publicly and to explain how and how things can and should function. Interesting data for comparison, in Croatia, for example, recycling between 30% and 40% of waste, in Serbia, unfortunately, between five and eight% of waste. When it comes to PET packaging, 100% recycling in Croatia, in Serbia this law should solve this problem and I think that is why this issue should be raised. What are all the problems with this law and what does Serbia have to regulate with us? First of all, the famous plastic bags, which are, I don't know, I don't know if we can talk about a million, but probably we can, which are one of the biggest environmental problems and the biggest polluters in Serbia. Then, famous PET packaging, I mention it several times, cans for non-alcoholic drinks and beer. What's the problem is that it's also used computer equipment, and what we've opened is recycling old cars and I think it's a question that we're going to open many times. How are you going to solve all this, gentlemen from the government? We don't like the offer made by the minister in this law, spying on our neighbors and undermining those who don't respect the law. This is not how anything can be solved, simply because you will face a well-known Serbian practice that will also report what is quite regular, only that the errors of the neighbour. I don't think that's the way spying should be done by other services. It's not an ecology, gentlemen. The famous chemical question. This chemical law is very important, and that's why it needs to be opened. The famous barrel of chemicals by the villages of Šumadija and the pollution of many places of harmful chemicals from the "Star-Helios" factory, then the illegal manipulation of chemical waste in this factory, and the big question to be answered by Minister, Prime Minister Cvetkovic, and to God and Boris Tadic, who understands and assumes the responsibilities of many, is – as the same company, "Stara-Helios", whose parent factory in Slovenia, whose orderly waste is transported to Austria and Germany in a completely adequate way, because in Austria and Germany, chemical factories, they find burn plants that belong to these factories, which can serve and work for some other companies. This company "Stara-Helios" in Slovenia respects, absolutely, all the principles of environmentalism and really waste transports in an adequate way, warehouses in an adequate manner and destroys them in an adequate way, and in Serbia it destroys the environment in this way, arguing that it is not the general position of this company, but that some individuals, general directors, president of the board of directors, which may be, or may not. It's simple, I don't justify a company or a state. I accidentally came across a statement from one of the inspectors who was in the field and who said they probably have neat papers. The discrepancy between bureaucracy and the one on the ground is a danger to the environment in Serbia, unfortunately. I don't think the environment in Serbia can depend on the inspectors who watch the papers. Papers are part of something called life, but it has to be seen what's going on, because while someone's been transporting that barrel for years and they're in every country yard, and by a few pieces, people from them water their vegetables, I don't think it's just a question of their inadequate relationship to the protection of the environment, but also an inspection that's bound to get a little peek at what's going on on on some real terrain. On behalf of the DSS, I've reopened these questions. Some of them are resolved by amendments, some minister answered in principle, but I think that all Serbian citizens have the right, because they generally have these problems, that these issues are being opened and that one serious parliament is seriously discussing them and is drawing some conclusions, and in favour of the citizens of Serbia and their health, above all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17651	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by a colleague, Dimitrijevic. Please sign in, so I can give you my word. Allow me, before I give my word to my colleague, to inform you that I am in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the presence of Aleksandar Resic, Assistant Minister and Ms. Valentina Radjenovic, Head of the Department of Chemicals, who I welcome, before the mandated promoter, Mr. Oliver Dulic. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17652	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of article 149. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For the sake of a clear attitude of what I want to advertise, I will consider the amendments that have been submitted to the bill and to inform the National Assembly of which amendments are proposed by the National Assembly and for which to reject them. So, we are going into an individual debate on the second united agenda, practically, without a session of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. We don't have the position of the committee in charge of what the amendments are, of these 300 that are proposed here, accepted and not. They were declared by the Legislative Committee, but the committee in whose jurisdiction it was not declared. As far as I know, the board meeting is scheduled for 13 hours. It was first in 12 hours, so now it's moved in 13 hours. We're on our way to a hearing without a statement from the board of directors. I don't know why we're in such a hurry. That's an amazing thing. We've brought this kind of rulebook to shorten the procedure, to speed up the work of the Assembly, we've said our opinions about it, and now we're going into one simple thing, it's a violation of such a Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17653	I would just like to inform you that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, since Article 141, the last position, says – unless the committee of directors delivers reports, or the Government has an opinion on the draft law, the bill will also be considered without these reports, or opinions. It is true that the meeting of the committee responsible is scheduled for 13 hours, said Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, chairman of the Committee. We all knew about the agenda and the schedule of Parliament's work activities today. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Mr. Dulic, the minister, wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the Government is concerned, the government has also discussed at the phone session today the additional amendments submitted by MPs to all the laws under discussion tomorrow. As for the amendments that are being discussed today, you have received a report from the Government on which amendments have been accepted and which are not, and I want to tell you that you have received it orally, all of you together. All MP groups have had the opportunity to discuss with the Ministry representatives on each of the amendments submitted, where each amendment has been discussed and discussed and orally – which is why we accepted it, which is why we did not, so I think that, as the Ministry, we have made a very good contribution to this assembly debate and that the debate should continue today in the plenary, because you have received information about each individual amendment from me personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17655	Thank you, Mr. Minister. On Article 1, amendments submitted by the MPs Lidija Vukicevic, Elena Bozic-Talijan and Milan Vesenovic, according to the assessment of the Legislative Committee. According to Article 143, paragraphs 5 and 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in which case, the right to state that amendment on behalf of the applicants has only one of the signed Members of Parliament, for up to two minutes. The government proposes that amendments be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that these amendments are not in line with the confirmed Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Extermination (SRJ Official Journal – International Treaties, No 2.00). Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Ragush wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17656	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, what you expect me to hear is – when is this bill going to be a law, because you have most of it, so you'll probably adopt it, you'll be implementing it at the part of KIM? It is a question that will be referred to by the SRS to all the promoters. On the basis of a truly live discussion during the debate in principle, I have tried to consult all the reports and analyses that your ministry has made, the headlines that you said, although I must admit – it's hard to organize in this material, there was little time. I would like you to respond precisely in this debate in particular – what about the damage done after the use of chemical weapons during NATO aggression in 1999? Which conventions were then injured, given that the reasons for the amendments are, in general, in the spirit of discrepancies with certain international conventions? What the SRS is interested in right now is - how will you react to all of them, and there is evidence that they used chemical weapons and thus violated the entire Corps of International Conventions? Have you made a budget of the damage to the use of chemical weapons? In this book of your ministry, it is really more difficult and very detailed, in which the annual report of the control and control sector is, I did not find the results of the damage produced during the period of aggression in Kosovo and Metohija, but not only on KIM territory, I know that you are referred to the way and methodology of the effects, but in terms of health, life, the environment of Serbia as a whole and the surrounding countries. This is what we expect to hear from you as an answer, as well as how much it costs to resuscitate what was done, and it is precedentd in the modern historical period and directly affected the health of the citizens of Serbia and the surrounding countries in the long run. In this regard, I did not find any specific data on this subject, although it was very difficult for me to read Mr. Gore, in the title that you suggested I consult, but I am a person who likes to consult everything, so that somewhere it should be an objective picture. You'll remind me on which side Al Gore writes about the use of unauthorized funds during the 78 days of NATO aggression against the SRJ. The moment you draw my attention to this particular page, where Mr. Gore writes about the use of chemical, biological, weapons with impoverished uranium, I will understand the good intentions and, possibly, the good will of all those who are obviously excluded from the terrible responsibility of 1999, and it is a violation of the entire corpus of international public law and of all international conventions. This directly means that Serbia's population suffers from the consequences of NATO's rampage during 78 days of bombing, that the rate of disease, from carcinogenic diseases, is significantly elevated. What the SRS expects to hear in detail in this debate is whether or not this topic was being considered. If it is, what is the agenda, in terms of what many experts contain, many finds, both domestic and foreign experts, which we will present to the Serbian public during this debate. It is important to present, too, the consequences of the 'Balkan War' in 1999 that Mr. Malishev, otherwise, professor of the Russian Federation Academy of Military Sciences, made. The frantic findings are a group of experts, but all of this represents a picture of what you're trying to do, which is a proposed set of environmental laws and the introduction of order into what we all call environmental protection. We are particularly interested in this part before that – will it bear responsibility, is there any submission that should draw our attention in the sense that we will, in some way, indicate that the executive authority intends to deal with this problem seriously? I missed that. I assume that you will make a concrete submission to this institution and to a concrete solution, and we will be able to talk further about it, and then we will realize that we are really moving in the right direction and that certain historical facts, such as NATO aggression and the consequences of NATO aggression, in terms of today's agenda, are being spoken in an objective, unhindered manner, in the interest of citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17657	On Article 1, amendments submitted by the MPs Milorad Buha, Boris Alexic, Jadranko Vukovic and Slobodan Vukovic, according to the assessment of the Legislative Committee. According to plan 143, pages 5 and 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if several MPs from the same parliamentary group submit amendments which are identical by their content, will be deemed to be one of the same amendments submitted by several MPs and, in that case, the right to explain that amendment on behalf of the applicants shall be deemed to have only one of the signed Members of Parliament for a period of two minutes. The government is proposing that the amendments be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that these amendments do not comply with the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons and the Extermination of Chemical Weapons ("SRJ Official Journal – International Contracts", No 2.00). Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Ragush, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17658	As I said earlier, since my colleagues aren't here, I'm kind of frustrated, because you'd hear a debate in details that would be much more detailed and qualified, but what's there. I hope to respond to this, conditionally speaking, impossible mission and in a decent way to present my colleagues who have worked hard, and several months before this, knowing that this will be a topic of the agenda, that through the Environment Protection Committee they contribute. When we talk about the bill on banning development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and destroying it, I suppose you think that we will talk, first of all, about what is more rarely talked about in the state of Serbia, because we have stepped back in time on "the path that is less going", so we are reviewing the responsibility of all those who are signatories of an illegal act such as aggression against the SRJ, which has enabled the current situation, therefore, the functioning of a terrorist state, created on such an act, based on a falsified report by Helen Rant, which she also talked about. This confirms today's moment, because these laws, like all other laws, which I would like to hear from you, are not going to be able to implement in KIM territory, at least Serbia will not be able to control the implementation of such laws, which does not convince us, for example, in KIM, especially by setting up Bondsteel, those who took part in the aggression against our country and our people, in some similar situation, to use everything that is forbidden. It's just that logic works, they did it once, so why don't they do it again. However, what I wanted to present to you, and I didn't have time to discuss in principle, I would draw your attention to certain titles and certain testimony. In each normal state, such testimony is a cause for certain serious investigations and for certain concrete measures, and we hope that this situation will be similar. So, the Spanish newspaper wrote, and Spain has shown that Serbia is on the side of this painful diplomatic and legal-political struggle to preserve the KIM territory. The Spanish mission in the KIM territory has repeatedly, even with numerous criminal points compared to their main commanding representatives in the KIM territory, shown, however, that it is on the side of the Serb people. Thus, certain examples from Spain have also testified, based on the testimony of NATO aggression participants, that the NATO Alliance used, among other things, chemical and biological weapons against the SRJ, i.e. to read here – to the greatest extent, against Serbia. So you have one testimony, if you don't have it, I'll be free to copy it and leave it at your ministry's address. Spanish pilot Adolfo de la Os was the first NATO officer to talk about the use of chemical, biological and radioactive weapons. He made a statement to the Spanish list "Articulo 20", and there he directly accused the governments of countries that committed aggression at the SRJ in 1999. to spread false news of the war itself. It should be considered how to treat, say, people who spread false news in Serbia about the consequences of NATO aggression, or simply keep quiet the consequences of NATO aggression. What we can guarantee, as someone who is an actor on Serbia's political scene, is that if this government does not deal with such things and these people, it will certainly come as a period when all those who have had certain information, and have not worked with them, the people have failed and can therefore be involved in what is a differential diagnosis of the Serbian population's health status. However, to return to this statement, which can also serve your resolute ministry that in a certain and adequate way, and yet within the framework of the government itself, you react, about the use of these chemical resources that we are talking about today. It is a direct statement by the pilot who was an eyewitness and a participant in NATO aggression and who, years later, faced with his human security, decided to speak. We can see here, I wouldn't be talking about that part right now, so maybe a little later, if collateral damage hadn't been done, if they were really given orders to target humanitarian targets, so all those goals that aren't military targets. Among other things, he says they have read so many lies, so much contradiction, that they themselves, each other, and several soldiers later decided to turn to the public, decided not to consult the newspaper until they returned to their countries. What is also very important is that the war they have waged on KIM territory, within the framework of the "Merciful Angel" action, is certainly an event that will in some future cost the entire international community. Let's see how much it costs the Serb community. Based on a concrete statement, we have information that during the aggression the country was being destroyed, that it was bombarded with new weapons, toxic nerve gases, cluster bombs, uranium bombs, violent, sterilizing chemical materials, crops poisoning poisons, and all that was kept silent. It was published in the Spanish "Articulo 20", number 30, so I'll be quite free to hand it over to you. Experts in Belgrade who have also studied the consequences of NATO aggression, say, in Srem, have found that the Alliance used missiles in the bombing, perhaps a little further away from the topic, but that is a common topic of this debate, with hormonal content. In fact, the results of their research have led to this very hormonal content causing the disease of plants, and then, of course, the consumption of these plants, or humans. Also, far-reaching weapons used during the NATO aggression period, as regards chemical and biological weapons, have definitely caused lasting consequences for human health. But what we have avoided to see, or have missed, perhaps you have, we have no knowledge of it, is the official document of the Serbian Government that will speak directly about the consequences of the use of the forbidden, by all international conventions, such as biological and chemical weapons during the period of aggression. It is only enough for us to see in which direction the government is going and whether what the president of your party is saying, say, on March 23rd, at the Security Council session, that NATO aggression has directly affected and that the number of victims is much higher, as a result of NATO aggression, in terms of increasing the number of patients from, unfortunately, the most severe diseases. It should not be ignored that 89 children were killed during NATO aggression, that most of us are no longer able to be with ourselves dear people, because someone has decided to use forbidden weapons, and in particular that a good part of us is also in a situation to cultivate and support the care of those who are directly victims of the use of forbidden weapons, using certain medical treatments that are extremely expensive. We have a situation, and I was talking about it in principle, that somewhere around 600 members of the Yugoslav Army at VMA were subjected, in 2000-2003, to blood tests, that the results were so fragrant that the project was suspended, that it was rarely associated with disability and exposure in areas where biological, chemical and radioactive weapons were used. This is the answer for us to how the executive power in Serbia refers to this terrible problem, which also affects, in a further perspective, what is called the reproductive power of Serbian citizens. So, we don't have any concrete, precise medical analysis that would come to a table for, say, an international conference and have called for the responsibility of all those who are initiators of the "Mercy Angel", so that we can understand that in this context, the answer of the Serbian Government is such that you actually agree with everything that happened during the 78 days of aggression, just because you haven't taken any concrete step to determine the picture in a completely different, objective way. In the remaining part of the time that I will use to talk about the draft laws that have united the first set of environmental laws, I will say that certain concrete data speak unwittingly about the fact that the state of Serbia does not have a plan of activity in this context, and that these bill proposals will not be possible in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. In the end, we would like, finally, at least from one of you to hear a direct answer to the question – on what part of the territory and how do you think you are solving the consequences of the use of forbidden funds, as well as how do you think you are implementing the laws that you have brought before us?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17659	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17660	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, ladies and gentlemen, what would I be interested in is whether you adopted any amendments to the SRS? That would, for example, be a good answer. What I am also interested in, given that the justification for our amendments is that they are not in line with the existing international conventions, is – what happened to the use of chemical and biological weapons, weapons with impoverished uranium in the period of NATO aggression? What convention is the use of these weapons by members of the NATO Alliance, okay? What conventions are then respected? Also, is there any official act that speaks of this period of use of prohibited weapons in Serbia's entire territory? What I would like first of all to know is who will pay the citizens of Serbia, so let's see what kind of world we live in, and how should we get closer to the EU with this set of environmental laws, which is the signator of the "Merciful Angel" and the signator of humanitarian disaster when we look at the state of Serbia? In the future, if we have in mind a period of half-life, let's say, poor uranium, the question is, who's going to pay for generations that aren't guilty of anything, and they're supposed to come after all of us into completely contaminated territory? Finally, what I promised at the very beginning of the story of the proposed set of laws, especially on the use of weapons that are forbidden by all international conventions, is a distraction, since you drew my attention to certain titles and reports, to the analysis of the Academy of Military Sciences Professor Mr. Malishev. He tried, in a series of articles on the "Nezavismaj gazet" list, to present an analysis of the consequences of military coups on Yugoslavia's facilities. What must be recognised, which is the topic of today's agenda, there is no legal assessment of NATO's impact on Yugoslavia's facilities, as well as the so-called so-called. humanitarian action. Given that it was a military expert, he left that part to legal experts, but I don't think we need legal interpretation for an act that didn't get the consent of the Security Council, which was the only one who owned to decide something like that. We also need no legal expert to tell us that the use of chemical weapons is allowed anywhere and ever, especially in the territory of the sovereign state, and that aggression cannot solve anything, and aggression has happened to us. However, what the Serbian public needs to know, I suppose you too will find interesting, what this analysis contains is a characteristic of the relative impact from the point of view of demands, for example, the 1977 International Convention. I see that you most often refer to conventions when you explain why certain amendments are not accepted and, mostly, in reasons for not accepting most amendments, you call for international conventions, and this 1977 international convention, which speaks of a ban on military or any other hostile influence on the natural environment, gives a definition of the type of Balkan war from the point of view of international law and the role of weapons of high precision in the NATO policy system. The basic set-up of the military-political strategy, therefore, national security policy, is their claim, of course we're talking about the US's national security policy, it was advocating for the use and banning of weapons, that war was and was a means of politics. The leaders of the then US administration have long developed the idea of finding an active means of policymaking, expanding the borders of America's interest, with the use of military power, in our case, mostly, with the use of forbidden funds. I would also like to hear one expert: how is humanitarian intervention by using biological, chemical, or radioactive weapons? The answer to that kind of question was not possible for any of the domestic and foreign experts, except that it was a crime that was not remembered by the modern world, which was signed by the most developed countries of Western European democracy. And also, what I'd like to hear from you, I believe I'm going to hear, is what time period does it take to resuscitate the consequences of using, in accordance with the subject, let's say, chemical and biological weapons? What Mr. Malishev, dealing with the consequences of the Balkan war in 1999, analyses are the phenomena of high-accuracy weapons, which can be considered a need to create a means to wage war with predictable results, at an affordable price. This is very important because of the Serbian public, because we think it will be quite clear what was the background of the use of forbidden weapons on the territory of the SRJ then, and under the pretext of preventing humanitarian disaster, if I reproduce it well. So what was then designed as a brand-new methodology of war, is that, in fact, in the Balkan territory, in this case, the SRJ, try everything that was in NATO's arsenal. It's not the first, not the last time. Let's just say that the complete change in strategy and the use of the forbidden weapon was the first time during the invasion of Panama and direct reckoning with General Norieg. Then came Desert Storm, and very soon we came. The final end of NATO's intervention, in terms of military resolution with insubordination Serbs, was in 1999. Just to remind you, a similar weapon was used in the territory of Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. So everything that should have been tried in terms of effects, facts. We were absolutely and definitely one experiment in vivo of all that the NATO Alliance had at its disposal. The question is, how long will the executive power react and whether it will react in this sense at all? Based on this analysis, we see that a precise military analysis is given in which, for example, chemically, biologically, as well as hormonally, weapons of hormonal content, affect the overall environment, namely human life and health. We also have, and I'm going to present this a little bit later, because it's a significant analysis, it might help in the context of what it's trying to do in front of the International Court of Justice, how much it's supposed to cost the countries of Western European democracy. Among other things, it is proposed that Western European democracies, since they have the most developed medicine, give free treatment to all those with, say, cancerous diseases on the territory of the former SRJ and Serbia's present. Also, it's preventive to act, again for free, because they're signatories of the most disgusting crime, to generations that come and definitely have changed, for example, genetic structure. We would be really pleasantly surprised, let's say, if we had interdisciplinary co-operation on this matter and co-operation between the portfolios, so we expect a general analysis of your ministry, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Health, and then I suppose a reaction of the entire government to the US and NATO alliance. The fact that you rejected the amendments of the SRS because they do not comply with certain international conventions, international conventions are here and we welcome them, of course. There is no one who wants the well-being of the people he represents who does not advocate the application of all international conventions, especially in this area. So we expect a concrete answer from you, in terms of all those who have violated all the existing international conventions, the moment they used chemical weapons.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17661	On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. The word is Mrs. Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17662	Unfortunately, my colleagues aren't here, so you won't mind me taking a little more time off some time, just to get the voice for what's ahead. When it comes to international conventions, I would like to hear what international conventions have been respected in the period of aggression in 1999, and research, even, American and Soviet scientists, have shown that destroying a system of decommissioning, say, heat, can lead to heat explosions and nuclear disasters, with the destruction of reactors and the release of up to 70% of radioactivity from it. The destruction of the nuclear fuel warehouse is even more dangerous, as nuclear waste radioactivity for orderly size is greater than fresh nuclear fuel. In the event of the destruction of ecologically dangerous objects by conventional weapons during military operations, such as, for example, confirmed in the Persian Gulf in 1991, they release extremely powerful forces, and that is what is rarely talked about in Serbia, which, definitely, in the long run, has forever changed the state of health of our fellow citizens. These are secondary decommissioning factors, like fires, explosions, immersion, chemical pollution zone. For example, the similarity and comparison resulting from such haiariums with weapons of mass destruction, by fire, shock wave, heat radiation, chemical and radiation pollution, were confirmed by events during the second half of the 20th century, unfortunately, and during the implementation of the "Merciful Angel" action in March 1999. For example, during the explosion of ships in ports, one-tonne debris reached a distance of two miles, a mass of 100 kg - to 12 miles, while the glass was sprayed at a distance of up to 30 miles. The waves of the explosion were ousting, say, ships of deplains up to 5,000 tons and 250 metres from the coastal line, destroying ships in a radius of up to two miles. We came after Desert Storm and everything that's happened. Fires that occurred during mass bombings, for example, Dresdan, Hamburg, Osaka and Tokyo, 1943 and 1945, took more victims in each city than died in the explosion of nuclear bombs in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. When we talk about aggression and the use of chemical and biological weapons in SRJ territory, it is most often referred to as radioactive, or impoverished uranium, because its semi-degradation exceeds the life span of several generations and directly contaminates the entire environment. As you have the opportunity to hear, it is rarely spoken, and it seems to me, somewhere around two and a half thousand strikes on legitimate targets, and most often it was civilian objects, during the 78 days of aggression, and very often it was used by conventions completely banned funds. What Professor Malishev is saying is, these are hand-me-downs on technological devices, where chemical processes take place under pressure of over 100 atmospheres and at a temperature of over 1,000 degrees. It's possible to release rapidly easily flammable matter, with fires in the form of fireballs. I guess we all remember what it looked like during NATO aggression. The effects of fireballs are similar to radiation, and the public should also bear in mind. Maybe that's the answer to a really frantic increase in cancerous diseases. So the fact of these fireballs is similar to the radiation from the atomic weapon, with a death range of up to 300 meters. As an analysis of the fact of chemical weapons, for example, they served certain harassies in the aggressions signed by the NATO Alliance. There, you won't believe it, and so do we, so, but not transparently, at certain military academys and schools, study how this affects the civilian population. The assumption is that your resort has a picture of a healthy environment. I'd like to get an answer on the use of weapons that pop out of all international conventions. Is there a radius on Serbia's territory that is healthy, which is not contaminated in terms of cultivation, in terms of land, water, air, anything, that is not contaminated by the fact that all prohibited funds during the period of aggression? During the Balkan War, according to Professor Malishev, more than 30 refineries were hit and more than 70,000 people from dangerous zones were drained and released, which required an emergency evacuation of more than 70,000 people from dangerous zones. I want to direct you to the title and source, and that's Mr. Muhin, the title is "Balkan, the ecological disaster zone." You might know about this, and if you don't know, there's an opportunity to include it in some of the reports, let's say, your resolution ministry, like this year, which is detailed. We are interested, say, in the period of NATO aggression and the far-reaching consequences of Balkan aggression. Their destruction was accompanied by extensive pollution of the atmosphere, water flows, soils and groundwaters of very toxic and harmful matter, such as chlorine, its derivatives, acids, phenols, etc., in a radius of 50 to 200 km from the destroyed enterprise, and over 30 refineries were destroyed. What this report states, and the signator is one of, you'll admit, in fact, I don't know how much you're familiar with it, the prestigious names of Russian military science, is that every petrochemical facility in its warehouse zone is up to 500,000 tons of hydrocarbonic fuel. They contain energy equivalent to three to five megatons of trotillas. The destruction of petrochemical and coal production facilities in the SRJ during NATO aggression led to a rapid heat release of 90 to 150 megatons and was followed by massive fires, with formation of clouds containing a large amount of soot, heavy metals such as lead and live, sulfur dioxide, azotic oxides, carbon oxides, dioxins, aromatic first-class hydrocarbons, as well as benzopirane with carcinogenic properties. As you can see, I don't remember talking about these things in Serbia after the period of aggression. If so, rarely in such places as Parliament. According to some modest analysis, some media who were trying to talk about what is a humanitarian disaster, signed by the US administration and the most developed EU countries, were mainly talking about weapons that were enriched by the impoverished uranium. Also, one of the facts is, and I will make sure that the competent portfolio gets this analysis of Mr. Malishev, whose associates made sure that the SRS came into possession of this data, that throwing up to 3,000 metres of toxic combustion products led to their transfer to a distance of hundreds of miles, be careful, across Belarus, into Russia's territory, all the way to the Smolensk line. This drop in heat caused a climate disaster in the first half of 1999. So what NATO's alliance has done to the SRJ has affected the entire planet and no one is to blame. None of NATO's representatives then paid what he did to the Planet, but Serbia's citizens first. This has never been adequately discussed, and most tragically, the government has never withdrawn the responsibility of the protagonist "Mercy Angel", made by the signatories of the greatest modern humanitarian disaster. The following analysis states that, as regards the use of illicit chemical weapons, as a product of all that I have just talked about, the release of these dangerous chemical substances, raw materials and products of chemical, petrochemical and medical production, in the destruction of industrial objects, has led to their concentration in the atmosphere being so exceeded that it can be compared to the full application of pure chemical weapons. So we see that, indirectly, those who are signatories of an experiment called "Merciful Angel" have caused reactions that are equivalent to the use of chemical weapons. I don't remember any official word on this. Chemical incapacitation, as a follow-up effect, leads to mutations of flora and fauna, decreases in the immune status of the population, and, now we'll probably all recognize ourselves in this, the most different mutations of allergies and spread of risk groups, for example, for hepatitis, a reduction in resistance to contamination. So, very precisely, they've torn down, using this weapon, our immune system. Also, the growth of cancer patients, internal organs diseases, epidemics that occur, even in unfavourable environmental conditions, can easily slip into pandemics, for which no continental borders exist. What is also one of the results of this, for us, is a truly ominous analysis, but obviously very professionally done, which does not give a very good picture of the state of health, and as a result of the use of illicit weapons during the period of aggression, is, for example, a significant increase in the level of radioactivity in the territory of Serbia, Macedonia, Montenegro, and in particular Kosovo. This is the result of not only the use of bombs and explosives with the impoverished uranium, but also the use of winged rockets, say, "Tomahawk", 30-millimeter missiles that enter the U.S. Air Force A10. In the heads of winged rockets, "tomahavk" is used about three kilograms of impoverished uranium, an anti-arming core transforms into a cloud of ceramic aerosol and dust from uranium oxide, which can spread for tens of miles. So this is so tied up with each other that we can't just talk about the use of one weapon and leave out another, the use of forbidden means without leaving out all, conditionally speaking, the chemical reactions that it causes in water, air or land. But what is most rarely said here is the effects that have hit the entire territory of the SRJ and the entire planet, as well as the responsibility that should be put forward, in terms of account for what we have suffered during the 88 days of aggression. So much now, in this part. I'd just like you to tell me how much time there is left for the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17663	You have 28 minutes left, but you have 15 minutes and as an authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group. On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the confirmed Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mrs. Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17664	The interpretation of this amendment can be interpreted in an almost identical manner, but unfortunately none of the representatives of the resolution ministry are present at the moment. I remind myself that my amendment was intended to correct and point out exactly that period of aggression that was recognizable to our country, let's say, agenda 21, which speaks of not allowing national states to reach out for blackmailing the international community on any illegal means and that it is contrary to all conventions, even, and to think about using chemical or biological weapons. But I will also complete the detailed explanation of my and my colleagues' amendments by continuing to analyse the effects of aggression during 78 days of chemical weapons use. What was a major dilemma for the SRS, when it comes to this law, is how to tackle the consequences of aggression, which were opposed to all conventions, and how to incorporate it in this proposal for legal solutions, i.e. a set of environmental laws. We argue that this will not be possible in the way of achieving environmental standards, but, then, during the debate in particular, we will try to make sure that, with certain data concerning the various effects of NATO aggression, we complete the picture and prove that this set of laws will not be able to set the standards imposed by developed Europe, in terms of achieving environmental protection, because we have not resolved the effects of the aggression that took place in March 1999. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17665	Thank you. On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Toman. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Italian. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Delic wants a word. Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17666	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment refers to the funds and agents for the control of the riots. The law provides for exactly the means that are prohibited. We, through the amendments of this article, have also proposed a ban on the use of agents to combat riots. However, during the talks we had here in the Assembly, we were explained that this provision was taken over from the Official Journal of the SFRY, number 2 of 2000, where the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons is discussed and that this provision, which we have proposed to amend, is precisely taken over from this Convention. That's not how it's accepted. The use of these funds is regulated by other laws. These are the laws we discussed last year, when it comes to the M.O.P. and the prevention of riots. So at that meeting, we accepted this explanation, especially as it was directly taken over by the Convention on the Prohibition of Production Development, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons, and we agreed that this change would not take place. (President: Time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17667	Thank you. On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the Head and the title above Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the Head above Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijatovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved international convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) Now that it's 14 hours, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm setting a 60-minute break and continuing at 15 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17668	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work in the afternoon's debate in detail. It is up to the amendment to Article 12, submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Extermination ("Official Journal of the SRJ – International Contracts", No 2.00). Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17669	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me say a few sentences about these few laws that are currently on the agenda, within the time of the Parliament's Group, because I was not present when this set of environmental laws was discussed in principle. As promised in our pre-election programme, the Hungarian coalition, i.e. SVM, stands for a few things in the field of environmental protection. First of all, to provide financial resources to protect our environment, to provide funds for the introduction of a system of selective waste collection and recycling, to create a modern waste management system, etc. This is why I'd like to be the most based on the bill that speaks of waste, packaging and their recycling. The inadequate treatment of waste is one of the biggest environmental problems in Serbia, although the application of recycling, i.e. the separation of waste at the place of production, is normally already regulated in our country, which means that there has been no legal yet in our country, but what unfortunately does not yet exist in practice – the separation of paper, glass, metal packaging in specially marked containers. Unfortunately, this still doesn't live in practice and our country does. Regardless of the reduction, i.e. the reuse of recycling and waste regeneration, is the basis for sustainable management of natural values and protection and promotion of the environment, this does not happen. The recycling of waste is one of the central and basic, not to mention problems, issues throughout the country and in the policy of protecting the environment in the world and around us and we are very glad that this law is finally on the agenda and that the time has finally come for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to discuss this issue. Members of the SVM and the Minority Group consider it necessary to speed up the reuse of packaging, as well as recycling and other mentioned forms of re-use of packaging waste, thereby reducing the disposal of such waste. After the adoption of these laws, which is much more important, by applying packaging and packaging waste laws and waste management laws, a network of collectors and packaging waste processors will be formed, which we certainly support. Of the other draft laws set out in the first set of environmental laws, there is also a proposal for a law on chemicals. Its goal is to establish, maintain, improve a unique chemical management system in the territory of our entire country, ensure a high level of protection of human health, which is very important, both the environment itself and the promotion of the development of safer alternatives than various dangerous chemicals. We believe that it is very positive that this bill proposes to prescribe proper notification of the impact of chemicals on human beings and the environment, which requires the obligation to introduce and issue permits for the use of the most dangerous chemicals, as well as the conduct of various studies. All of this will help reduce disease and preserve the environment. The following is the proposal for a law on biocidal products. For the sake of citizens, I want to stress what they are, or what all products are called biocidal products. They are used in hospitals, restaurants, bathrooms, kitchens, swimming pools, etc. Species of biocidal products, which I must admit I didn't know personally until I got into this topic, are, among other things, various disinfectants, preservatives, insecticides, etc. The aim of the Biocidal Products Act is to place on the market only those biocidal products which are effective enough to destroy undesirable organisms, but, on the other hand, what is positive, that these products do not negatively affect humans, other organisms and the environment. The passing of this law and, as I like to point out, its adequate application will contribute to an adequate assessment of what biocidal products pose a risk, i.e. that are dangerous to human health and the environment. Some existing ones, after that assessment, will replace themselves with safe alternatives, less dangerous. We all aim at providing conditions to effectively combat the abuse of all of this and radioactive and nuclear matter. A law I didn't mention was a bill on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear security. The aim of its adoption is to establish strict control over the sources of ionising radiation and nuclear facilities, to streamline the activities and nuclear activities, as well as the management of very dangerous radioactive waste. I welcome Mr. Secretary. The law on non-ionising radiation should also be a legal basis for the adoption of sublegal acts which will fully regulate the area of security of construction, which is very significant, security of use of the pipeline. The aim of this bill is, in general, the protection of the rights of every individual to life in such a environment that is adequate to his health and well-being. The law currently on the agenda, i.e. amendments to the draft law on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction, is its objective, as we have heard, of disarmament and destruction of all supplies of chemical weapons and of all plants for its production. Once again, I would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity not to attend when the debate was in principle, to put forward the views of the Parliamentary Club of Minorities and SVM, and I would like to stress that in the day of the vote we will support this set of environmental laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17670	Before we move on to the next amendment, on the basis of Article 85(5), I would like to inform the National Assembly that we will be working after 18 hours today, and until the debate on the agenda point that will be discussed in detail at that moment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by Dušanka Plecevic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Ragush. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17671	Mrs. Comic, thank you. I'm looking forward to Mr. Dulic being here. The amendment to Article 16 provided that item 1 should be deleted. The reasoning states, more or less, that I will use the opportunity to quote, similar arguments are: ''Amendman proposes to amend that member of the bill to strengthen the constitutional provision of Article 97 point 9. The Constitution. I should quote it, to make it perfectly clear to the public in Serbia that the state of Serbia has always taken care to regulate and ensure sustainable development, a system of protection and promotion of the environment, protection and improvement of the plant and animal world, production, transport and transport of weapons, toxic and flammable, explosive, radioactive and other dangerous substances. In line with this, given that the government's most frequent arguments and the resolution ministry are that the amendments are not accepted because they are opposed to the existing conventions, just to repeat the question, as Mr. Minister is present. We are interested in which way will the Resolute Ministry raise the issue of responsibility for all those who violated, during the 1999 aggression, all existing international conventions, and in particular the Convention on the Use of Chemical Weapons? The answer to that question would be significant, in terms of solving the effects of the use of chemical weapons in the environment, on human health. How long does it take, in years, I guess, decades, and how much does it cost? (President: Two minutes. I forgot to announce that I would be using, perhaps, and the time foreseen for the SRS Parliamentary Group. I expect a qualified and detailed answer to this question, because you will agree, because of your profession, that human health is a categorical imperative for all of us. In this regard, what we expect is, when a figure is put out, how much is it going to cost, to say who is responsible for breaking all conventions. We are now treating them in terms of preconditions for the entire system of environmental laws, therefore, and introducing order into the very concept of the environment, preserving the environment. We're interested in how the government and the resolute ministry think about improving the environment, which is contaminated in a way that needs to go a few lifetimes, a few generations, and therefore, for some hundred years, we're thinking about a genetically acceptable and healthy generation in this part of the territory?- I'm sorry. Whether such actions were, or will be, a question that is of interest to the entire Serbian public, given that I suppose they are directed to the fact that treatments are expensive, that there is an obvious increase in cancerous and other diseases, that certain genetic changes have been observed, namely changes in the immune system of citizens of Serbia. I assume that you have, on condition, an analysis that can tell us some future event, in terms of future actions of the Resolute Ministry for the introduction of order into the overall system of environmental protection and conservation during the break, I studied the report you gave to all MPs. He is detailed in terms of the treatment of incidents, certain sanctions for all contaminants. What we were also expecting may have been made by the restoring ministry, but we don't know that, is a report on the consequences of NATO aggression, just when it comes to the use of chemical weapons. We would also like to see what the Serbian government is planning specifically to do in terms of the resolution of the use of chemical weapons in the territory of the SRJ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17672	On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) To the title above article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by Marina Toman. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by the National MP Elena Christmas-Talijan. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20, the amendment was submitted by the MP Lidija Vukicevic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by the National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 23, the amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by the MP Vesna Maric. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by the MP Dušanka Plecevic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 26, the amendment was submitted by the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant convention. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17673	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to announce that I will use some time planned for the SRS Parliamentary Group. Therefore, all amendments, in their explanation, aim to strengthen Article 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which regulates all this which is part of the bill that we are discussing in detail. While we are already on the territory of something that obliges every domestic legislation, and these are some conventions created by the consensus of all countries to participate in the conservation of the environment and thus the health and life of all inhabitants of the Planet, we as a party absolutely agree, and we have nothing against the implementation of all that international conventions provide for under domestic legislation, i.e. to be incorporated into domestic laws. However, we have a problem in the second part, it is legal-political, when we talk about a set of environmental laws, and it concerns the lives of all citizens of the Serbian state. So, the fact is, now, the historical fact, that at one point, for political reasons, all internationally known and recognised conventions based on a ban on certain weapons have been violated. Among other things, there's chemical, biological and radioactive weapons. The SRJ territory has been exposed to just such facts for 78 days, and it is now far-reaching, not to say again, it has consequences for the environment and for the health of all of us. But what is also very significant is that in 2000, a certain analysis of experts has been made, which has been passed on to all relevant institutions. We talked about that analysis. Among other things, what was then detected, so that we don't repeat all the parts of the analysis, is where the contamination occurred. During NATO aggression, radiological and chemical reconnaissance of the A10A plane's area was said to have been conducted. With detailed reconnaissance and the removal of ammunition remains, evidence has been collected that in the territory of the SRJ, therefore, south of the 44th parallel, clarifications for reasons of the Serbian public, it is outside of the KIM territory, at eight locations, the NATO aggressor used exactly this kind of ammunition that we are talking about today. On the Serbian side, no official protest and the launch of the issue of responsibility for the violation of all existing international conventions, which has not changed since then. Seven of them are on RS territory, and one is on the territory of the current state of Montenegro. Why am I saying this? To finally ask you a question: is the cause continued at these locations and did everything that was then recommended? These are: Robbery, north of Vranja; Borovac, south of Bujanovac; Cherenovac, southwest of Bujanovac, two locations; Bratoselce, northeast of Presevo, and Reljani, east of Presevo. For Montenegro, I will not ask you, since it is not in your jurisdiction, it was in the jurisdiction of the former SRJ. After collecting the results of the analysis from the Institute of Nuclear Sciences "Vinča" and the Institute for Health Protection of Workers in Nis, five more contaminants were singled out, whose recovery was necessary. It is Borovac 2, south of Bujanovac for about 10 km (to remind you, it was actual on May 26, 1999, in the country's samples contaminating contamination); Bratoselce, north-east of Presevo for about 10 km (acted on May 27, 1999, in the country's samples is also a constant contamination, 9 to 116 times more than allowed); Reljani, east of Presevo for about 10 km (acted on May 28, 1999, ammunition banned from all international conventions, established the presence of contamination on two microlocations); Robbery, north of Vranja for about 4 km (acted on May 29th 1999, and samples of the country show an extremely high level of contamination, up to 1100 times the limit). Not to repeat the other allegations of this expert analysis, which, first of all, were made by members of the Army. They proposed there certain stages of decontamination of defined areas of increased contamination. Among other things, they predicted, from upgrading, who should be the bearer of this activity, to depositing and keeping that waste, to making decisions on a permanent ban on use, for example, land. Why am I saying all this? It is very important to know whether sampling was carried out in the territory of KIM, since we know that the NATO Alliance was the most effective in that part of the territory, and this very forbidden weapon, and that the repaired damage was produced precisely in these stages recommended by all state authorities and institutions, in the specified period, as well as what is now the situation in the areas where contamination is observed? That answer would indeed mean something to us, because we could possibly compare that to an analysis, let's say, of the increase in malignancies, precisely in those areas that were found to have been used by weapons prohibited by all international conventions, in the first place, chemical weapons.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17674	On Article 27, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Toman. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 31, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 31, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 31, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the head above Article 32, the amendment was submitted by the MP Radisa Ilic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 32, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 32, the amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 34, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 46, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 37, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 37, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 38, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 38, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 39, the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 40, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 40, the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 40, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 40, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 40, the amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 40, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović - Milosavljevic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 40, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the approved Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17675	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, it's such a good opportunity to rest your vocal cords. If my colleagues were there, they would have had the opportunity to explain all these amendments, and if time had been provided for keeping each amendment longer, perhaps the number of amendments would have been smaller. Maybe we'd all have room for some optimal time to try to improve some of the laws that are in front of us. The objective of this amendment in point 7 is to strengthen Article 97. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which stipulates that the state of Serbia regulates the entire area of the environment, takes care of it, hence, and provides for the law. What is imposed as a basic question is, since the lady is the assistant minister of supervision, inspection supervision, how much I remember, present, which are material and technical assumptions, as well as human resources for the implementation of this law, and how do you think you take, say, monitoring, control over the implementation of this law in the part of Kosovo and Metohija? I know it causes, like, a similar reaction every time, but in a way that's been determined according to that part of the territory so far, if I remember correctly from the analysis of contaminated areas, i.e.. Pristina, Uroshevci, Djakovice, Prizren, Peći, Decana? Has there ever been any surveillance... (President: Two minutes. I'll use some time left for the MP's group. I'm sorry, I didn't say anything earlier. Has there ever been real surveillance of the use of weapons, chemical weapons? We should have this as information from 1990, 2000, and so on. I'm guessing your portfolio owns it as some kind of information. If not, I assume you've been working with the Ministry of Defense on the subject, because it's an obligation for the restor to monitor the implementation of something that is a constitutional obligation, so that that information would really be valuable, that we finally hear it, at least during this debate in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17676	On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 42, the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 43, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the relevant Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 44, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 44, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 44, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Toman. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the Head above Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with a certain Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with a certain convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with a certain Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that more amendments are made in accordance with a certain Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that more amendments are made in accordance with a certain Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that more amendments are made in accordance with a certain Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that more amendments are made in accordance with a certain Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with a certain Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with a certain Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with a certain Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with a certain Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with a certain Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with a certain Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with a certain Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) Amendments in the same text were submitted to Article 45 by MPs Dragan Zivkov and Nikola Žutic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with a certain Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with a certain Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with a certain Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with a certain Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with a certain Convention. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 46, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 46, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 47, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 47, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the Head above Article 48, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers it possible to amend. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 48, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 48, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 48, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On Article 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On Article 51, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Since we have completed a review of the bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal's representative, Dr Oliver Dulic, the environment and spatial planning minister, want to give the final word? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of IONISING AIRS AND ON NUCLEARY SAFETY (specificity) On behalf of the Head above Article 1, the amendment was submitted by the National MP Milan Avramović. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic to the title above Article 3. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Toman. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17677	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is indeed an extraordinary opportunity to talk about something that should be the concern of all of us who have been exposed to the effects of poor uranium 238, which will definitely affect the nuclear safety of many generations, conditionally speaking, after us, in view of only the period of half-degradation of the poor uranium 238, which has been most exposed to Serbia during the 78 days of aggression on this part of the territory. However, with this amendment, you have seen in reason, the SRS had only one goal – to strengthen Article 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I am saying this because of the public, which I assume is now being included in the television broadcast of this plenary session, that is because this member provides a great responsibility for the state of Serbia, to regulate the entire area of the environment. There will be opportunities, during this debate in detail on this bill, to speak much more in detail, which is, of course, nuclear security and the resolution of the consequences of NATO aggression; the storage of nuclear waste generated in various processes; of course, we will also talk about the situation within the Vinch Institute. These are all topics which we, i.e. by circumstances, will explain, in front of the SRS Parliamentary Group, in the time remaining for the SRS Parliamentary Group, and on the proposal for a law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear security. I'll only use the remaining minute for my group. We will also ask concrete questions and ask for concrete answers from Ministry representatives. (President: Two minutes) Yes, I know, but I've announced that I will use the time, if I may, provided for a group of SRS. That there were colleagues, who were really preparing for this debate in particular, it is absolutely certain that the Serbian public, as well as representatives of the resolution ministry, would have a qualified and reasoned debate on the subject of this bill, and that they would explain it much more closely during the debate in particular. I hope to be able to raise certain questions and try to trouble certain things which, right now, require this law, of course, and encourage me to think – that certain responsibility for the nuclear disaster that took place in Serbia's territory must be brought first by the signatories of the "Mercy Angel" action. It will be the backbone of further exposure. This amendment, that's all, but there will be opportunities to talk about it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17678	On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Prime Minister Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title behind Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the Head above Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Slobodan Maras and Judita Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17679	Thank you. We wanted this amendment to introduce more order in the organisation of the Agency's work, and this, compared to its superior powers, to do so qualified persons, as proposed in the law and proposed for the tasks and activities to be carried out by the Agency. Therefore, it would be logical to find experts in those areas who are later in charge of certain resolutions in the process, for example, measures of radioactivity, exposure levels, protection measures projecting, or quality control of the implementation of these measures. Therefore, the other text of the law determines which people and whose educational profiles can deal with. It is quite logical for it to be within the Agency, a team before it is understood, in one of the members, that it, in practice, performs and process of creating conditions under which further education of interested professional profiles, those who will be qualified to carry out these non-operational measures on the ground will be carried out. If it has some educational, educational, educational role, then it should be contained in itself and fully defined experts of certain profiles, which we have proposed here, to the extent and number that would correspond to the Agency. We couldn't, of course, type out what number there would be and what professional profiles, but the structure had to be represented, because only in this way would it be guaranteed, if, in general, the proposal was adopted by which the Agency could implement the information and education measures, in the control of the implementation of the measures, to find someone who could do so – to bring the teaching and educational function to an end. I think the argument sent by the government, that it can be regulated by other means and by other laws, is not drinking. That would practically be one of the exceptions to the behavior this time. I think it would be perfectly appropriate for this amendment to be accepted and each one within the Agency to receive some resolute duties. (President: Two minutes. ) Team before the Agency wants to take measures that do not belong to it, as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17680	On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. That the line wants a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic to the title above Article 6. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. That the line wants a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17681	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia, SNS, I have submitted an amendment asking for Article 6th point 9 to be amended, which now puts the Agency's authority to issue and withdraw authorisations for the transport of radioactive and nuclear materials, along with all other points, which there are many. The motivation to propose this amendment is to amend this article and to read: 'Propose to the Government measures on the issue and withdrawal of authorisations for the transport of radioactive and nuclear materials and, after obtaining consent, issue and withdrawal of permits'. Although the Agency performs its tasks as entrusted tasks, because of its great importance and impact on the environment, it is necessary for the Government to be informed and to grant approval for the issue and withdrawal of authorisations for the transport of radioactive and nuclear materials. The agency can predict many things, however, there are so-called. Accedents, unexpected situations when a man does not hope, or he is powerless to do anything about it. It's my opinion that this is too serious for the Agency to have unlimited trust in these matters. Enhancing security demands suggest that the government of the Republic of Serbia is engaged in this business, not that these jobs are entrusted to the Agency. It is a written act issued by the ionising radiation protection agency and Serbia's nuclear security for the individual transport of one or more sources of ionising radiation, radiation of radioactive and nuclear materials. In Article 5(3), there is an expression that is very indicative, that the government does not interfere with the issue of licences, and in paragraph 3, the Government gives consent to determine the level of salary and the number of employees in the Agency. It is more primary for the government to determine how high the salary is and the number of employees, and only issuing permits takes off and gives trust to the Agency. It is too serious that the government of the Republic of Serbia has no hearing of such matters. What else can we say? That this bill improves measures to ensure nuclear and radioactive safety and that these are very important and serious things. Law enforcement funds are provided for by the Republic of Serbia's budget, 73m dinars, and this is not negligible, given the seriousness of these transactions. I couldn't have a big remark here, because it's an economic crisis and social misery, so I'm saying that those funds are real and that's pretty good. The only problem is that the issue of permits for nuclear and radioactive material is entrusted to one body, one institution, which is at its own organisational level and perhaps at a professional level, far below what the Government of the Republic of Serbia should have.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17682	Members of the 6th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Sasa Maksimovic and Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. That the line wants a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17683	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the parliamentary group Forward Serbia – Tomislav Nikolic, have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on protection against ionic radiation and nuclear security. In addition to the cosmetic papers adopted by this draft law, which relate to the introduction of the latest professional terminology, to the public in the work, to the adoption of a radiation security and security programme, to the adoption of a programme for complementary training and training of persons responsible for protecting against ionising radiation, this bill also brings the only essential paper and change, which is the establishment of an ionising radiation protection agency and the nuclear safety of Serbia, as a regulatory body. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the 103rd government agency of the Republic of Serbia, if I'm not mistaken. What does that mean, practically? That the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at a time when the global economic crisis slowly tightens the ring around the Republic of Serbia, for which you, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, definitely does not give an answer, or defence, at a time when you invite all citizens to tighten their belts and save, when many citizens are left out of work every day, at a time when, with the help of Dragan Markovic-Palma, you have allowed the anthemisation of Parliament to form a new agency, 103th agency in a row. It doesn't take the government to do the job it's meant to do, but to be another expensive wheel in the already bulky state administration and the place where you will, of course, hire your staff on the party line. The SNS's position, i.e. the Forward Serbia Group – Tomislav Nikolic, is to bring the government of the Republic of Serbia to the public and to the citizens and to say how much it costs the 103 agencies, what the number of employees, what was the criteria for admission to employment, whether the membership card, party membership card, or expertise, and that the government finally shows responsibility, audits the number of agencies, because they are only an imposition for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17684	Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dragan Shormaz. Please sign in to the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17685	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we of the DSS support this amendment. It's completely logical, especially because of the time we're in. I also support what my colleague said, it's extremely irresponsible today to form another agency, I think it's 104, so be it 102 or 105, there are a lot of them. In any case, the work of those agencies should be reconsidered. We will propose to the amendments certain things related to the work of agencies and funds, which will then be seen from Friday, when the debate begins. We think this government is incompetent, this is another piece of evidence, that the world's economic crisis is being fought, and this kind of government's moves are saying everything we've been saying this fall, that it has no answer to the challenges of the global economic crisis. The first said that the crisis would not even happen in Serbia, then, that, as Milosevic said in the 1990s, we would use the crisis for Serbia's progress, and now, instead of taking measures and improving the economic environment, to think about Serbia's economy and economy, only the revenue and distribution sides of the budget are considered. That's all we're talking about. Only on this basis is it works, as if the republican budget is all about the country's economy, as if the economy is not much more than the state and republican budget. That is why the government is leading the country, making an environment with which Serbia will find itself in an even worse situation very quickly, unfortunately with this government. Tens of thousands of workers lose their jobs. We have data, officially published by the government, on the number of closed companies and on the number of closed independent shops by mid-April, as well as on the number of blocked companies – over 60,000 at this time in Serbia. The number of people who lose their jobs is manipulated, but once we get data on the number of closed and blocked companies, we can get to a much more accurate figure than the one published by the labour market. The only solution for this country, it is shown in such proposals, as well as in what we will begin to discuss on Friday, is the extraordinary parliamentary elections and that this country begins to lead those who understand better the situation we are in, and we have shown it since September-October, when we have spoken about what the country will happen, while others have said that none of this will happen and that nothing like that will happen, as they laughed at us, they called us populists. There is now another picture taking place compared to September and October, so it would be best if this government resigned as soon as possible and stopped harassing Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17686	On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by the MP Vesna Maric. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by the National Parliament of Elena Christmas-Talijan. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by Dušanka Plecevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 10, the amendment was submitted by the MP Lidija Vukicevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Environmental Protection. At its meeting of the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by Natasa Jovanovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Environmental Protection. At its meeting of the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 14, the amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by the MP Vesna Maric. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 16, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Ostojic, Kenan Hajdarevic and Judita Popovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17687	We have submitted to this Article together, as members of the Parliamentary Group, an amendment accepted by the Government, so that the reasons for the amendment itself obviously were valid, so that I would not specifically refer to this amendment. However, I would like to take advantage of the time my parliamentary group has to discuss in particular the details of this law by looking at some much more pro-zasa problem that is related to a set of these environmental laws. In fact, the proposal for a law on protection against ionic radiation and nuclear security really has a scary name and asks a big question, which we would refer to the government – does the government seriously think and really want to care about protecting citizens from ionising radiation and to provide them with nuclear security? If so, how is it possible for the government to make an appointment in a common problem? This problem is related to the Imperial Bar, a special nature reserve, Stari Begej and the Imperial Bar, which is 17 km from Zrenjanin. I have already talked about this problem in the Assembly, and I have requested certain notifications and certain actions that the ministry should have taken to protect this special nature reserve. Why did I ask you to do that? Because the Imperial Bar has two great enemies, two kinds of dangers endanger the Imperial Bar. There is no threat of ionising radiation, and there is no nuclear threat, however, there is a danger from a shipyard built 100 metres from the border of the Imperial Bar, and another threat threatens her from the way she manages that special nature reserve. This management was given to government regulations from 1994 to 1995, and was made possible by a single fishing land. When we talk about the special nature reserve of Stari Begej – Tsarska Bar, we should, above all, consider that it is one Ramsar area. It is a natural wealth, therefore, of a rare nature, as far as the swamp area is concerned, even on UNESCO's list, and in addition, it has been listed as the IPA area since 1989. If we start from the fact that it is a significant habitat of swamp birds and that it is an area of exceptional importance for the birds of Europe, then we have an extremely big problem with the management of the Imperial Bar. How can a fishing master manage such a wealth as the Imperial Bar? So how can he manage something that's protected by UNESCO, something that's in the IPA area? For example, the local self-government of Zrenjanin, the municipality of Zrenjanin, filed an initiative in 06.07.2017 to amend the RS Government Regulation on the protection of the Stari Begej Special Nature Reserve – the Carna Bar, in the part of defining custody of the Special Nature Reserve. So that initiative was filed almost two years ago. The ministry has not done anything, although it has received a good explanation in the initiative as to why a change of guardian is sought. The municipality of Zrenjanin stated that they came from the spatial plan of the Municipality of Zrenjanin, with special purpose of the Tsar Bar, from the spatial plan of the area of special purpose of Stari Begej – Tsarska Bar, from the local ecological action plan of the Municipality of Zrenjanin and the sustainable development strategy of the municipality of Zrenjanin. I note that this is a nature reserve located 17 km from Zrenjanin. So, it is located in the Zrenjanin Atar, and that local self-government, absolutely, has no authority over that nature reserve, which I say is really threatened by a shipyard, which is literally built on the edge of that Imperial Bar, and also by the management, which is obviously inadequate. Why is that management inadequate? Let's say, because you have a hunting area within the Tsar Bar, and otherwise it's forbidden to hunt on the territory of a natural reserve like the Tsar Bar. Then there are gas cannons, which are active all the time, for reasons to scare the cormorants, so birds that are reportedly destroying food in that fishing land, where fish are produced. That's the basic reason why one fishing owner can't run the Imperial Bar, because there's obviously a conflict of interest. They are, first of all, here to produce fish, and they cannot keep a nature reserve because they are not competent, they do not have conditions, they do not have human resources, and they are not adequately controlled as they do. The municipality of Zrenjanin stated what, in her opinion, should be done to preserve the Tsar Bar. For example, they cited the introduction of active measures to protect and manage the implementation of conservation, rehabilitation, revitalisation, lubrication and cleaning of wet meadows. We have a situation today that this swampy area, therefore, that bar, is not being smudged in an adequate way, and moreover, the mud from the ponds is being thrown into that bar. It is then stated that the implementation of the project of reduction of invasive, alochtonic species, re-innovation of endangered and rare fish species is envisaged. This means to reduce the number of harmful species that threaten fauna and flora, which are protected in the area of the Imperial Bar. Then, water quality monitoring and water ecosystem status. This is very important because, if not done, in that case, it can lead to the depletion of the swamp. Then, continuous implementation of environmental monitoring, water, air, land, noise, where appropriate, the implementation of monitoring of the population of the most endangered protected species and species from the list for the Red Book of Fleet of Serbia, the update of the cartographic display of flora and vegetation, the resolution of the most important environmental problems, such as the prevention of the release of waste water from the ponds within the framework of the reserves, the resolution of the problem of the disturbed water regime, the smoothing of sediments, the suspension of eutrophicisation, the prevention of poaching, burning of cod, forest burning of Old Bege, the airport 'Ecka' would be used exclusively for the needs of sports and school flying and sails, the identification of optimal number of visitors of reserves, the achievement of co-operation with NGOs, the implementation of co-operation with educational and scientific means, the implementation of the implementation of the project of the Internet-based demonstrations, the implementation of the Internet-based of the presentations, the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the Internet. Is that enough reason and arguments for the Ministry to at least imagine whether this local self-government can take on such a responsibility, or whether that responsibility remains only again in the domain of a fishing land? I would say, for example, that, in a cloudy state, this Imperial Bar involves a large floral diversity, with about 500 plant species, among which a dozen species on the natural rarest list, five species were included in the Red Book of Fleet Serbia, and one species was placed on the Red List of Europe, of phytofaun, with 250 species, of which 140 were nests. When I read and state to you this way, it may seem quite ordinary and quite prosalytic, however, it is a great natural wealth and the Imperial Bar is among the 10 most beautiful and best places, as far as natural beauty is concerned, in Serbia. Then why destroy one of these natural beauty by not taking enough care of it? I often get to talk about this decentralisation thing. This is one example of what is happening in Serbia that is such a centralized state. So the center is managed by something and it is given custody of something that is of such importance to this country, and it is not taken into account and the necessary control to keep such a wealth and preserve, not just for the present, but also for future generations. As long as we experience the management of our country and locals, it will happen to us that with one move, by a regulation, one such natural wealth puts an inadequate position for its survival. So when we submitted this request, this initiative to the Ministry, we expected some appropriate response. We did not get an answer, i.e. we received a very strange response from the Institute for Nature Protection of Serbia, in the light of solutions on the previous protection of the areas envisaged for the extension of the borders of the Stari Begej Nature Special Reserve - Carska Bar. With this March 2008 solution, which was repeated in March 2009, the Carna Bar Reserve, as far as its borders are concerned, extends and also gives management to fishing land. In this Article 3, let's say, Solutions, it is particularly pointed out that hunting, except for the purpose of maintaining the health status and optimal number of savages, is forbidden, that it is forbidden to raise some industrial plants near the Imperial Bar, within the limits of that reserve, and everything is done contrary to this solution. So, the Ministry doesn't respond, the Nature Protection Office is responding completely inadequately and illogically. Zrenjanin municipality and the town of Zrenjanin have an interest in preserving this natural wealth, have an interest in improving it in every respect and it does not take much to libi the Ministry and to think about what to do, given that significant funds from the budget are also paid to maintain this natural wealth, and certain funds come from abroad, as this natural wealth is on UNESCO's list. Therefore, he has the means. The Granjan municipality also intends to finance the maintenance and survival of this natural wealth from its budget. It is therefore much easier to control the work of a local self-government, one city, through a councilman, through many institutions, than to control a private company, with its strong private security, which can in any way prevent direct insight into how it works in the Imperial Bar and how it is. Today is the second time I'm talking about the Imperial Bar. If there is no answer, our request is to change the management of the Imperial Bar. I repeat my local self-government request from Zrenjanin and will again insist on making a decision that will be in the interest of the town of Zrenjanin, the municipality of Zrenjanin, as well as in the interest of all Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17688	On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic.. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Ostojic, Kenan Hajdarevic and Judita Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Articles 20 and 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Articles 21 and 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (No)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17689	I'd just like to ask you, Mrs. Comic, to tell me how much time left for the Parliament Group?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17690	The time available for the SRS Parliamentary Group is 17.30 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17691	Therefore, the reasons for the amendment to Article 26, in which the SRS requests that the position of the 7th member be deleted, is in the sense of strengthening Article 97. The Constitution of the Serbian state. In this context, it would be important for us, and we asked for some time ago if we had an insight into the submission of the state of Serbia to the International Court of Justice, which concerns the illegal declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija, because we were expecting a certain part that would deal with the very humanitarian disaster created by the use of weapons prohibited by all existing conventions, first of all, biological, chemical and radioactive. Unfortunately, we have no insight into what the state of Serbia has submitted to the International Court of Justice, but we have insight into what the Russian Academy of Military Sciences has been doing on this issue. What the Serbian public should know about the proportions of the facts, conditionally said, about nuclear security, and it is a subject and ionic radiation, is a frantic example. The comparisons work, according to Professor. Malishev, during the Hiroshima atomic bomb explosion in 1945, only 740 grams of radioactive waste fell to the ground, which was enough to incapacitate three generations. People survived the atomic tragedy. At the time of the Chernobyl hawari, 63 kilograms of radioactive waste were expelled. During the explosion of every missile from the A10 fighter plane and every Tomahak rocket, radioactive waste is cast out with bright radioactivity rather than with an atomic bomb explosion in Hiroshima. In the territory of the SRJ, ladies and gentlemen, about 1.5 tons of poor uranium 238, and to this day we do not have an official view of the humanitarian disaster that was created on that occasion and which will be felt by several generations coming after us. It would really be necessary for the Serbian public to hear the true state of the environment and human health. I don't know if you've had the chance to meet, unfortunately, some of us have, with the most severe diseases, which are already experiencing epidemic conditions. On behalf of all these people, who, even, do not have the conditions for adequate medical treatment, we should finally raise these very questions that are raised by such a set of environmental laws, because we cannot even resolve the consequences of such facts, rather than maintain an adequate level of environmental protection. On the other hand, after 2000, about 4,000 graduate students left the country annually; between 2003 and 2004, about 3,000 of our graduate students went to America in 2005 – 800 more. So the state loses one expert somewhere between 30,000 and 40,000 euros. A good part of our domestic experts is from an area which you, gentlemen, should be interested in. I am interested in what is the state of human resources, in terms of supervision, and as provided for by this law, also in the material and technical assumptions for the resolution of all the consequences of NATO aggression since March 1999? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17692	On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) To the title above Article 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) The title above Articles 28 and 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by the MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 29, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) To the title above Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 31, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 31, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 31, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 32, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) To the title above Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 36, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Ostojic, Kenan Hajdarevici Judita Popovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by the People’s MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 37, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 38, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 38, the amendment and amendment with a correction, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dusan Maric and Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 40, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 42, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 43, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) To the title above Article 44, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 44, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 44, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 46, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 47, the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 47, the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 47, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 47, the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17693	On behalf of the NS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment, and it reads: "The Agency prescribes conditions, criteria, measures and defines certified methods that can be used to analyse the nuclear safety and security of the First Article's position." The explanation of the amendments – the proposer of the law on protection against ionic radiation and on nuclear safety – provided, in Article 13, for the conditions which the person must fulfil in order to carry out the actions covered by this article. The proposed amendment also defines the necessary conditions in the field of nuclear security and security. As you can see, in the law on protection against ionic radiation and nuclear safety, there are a series of bans, in Article 2, that must be fulfilled. It is prohibited to import into the territory of the Republic of Serbia radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel of foreign origin, it is prohibited to install radioactive thunderheads on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it is prohibited to install ionising smoke detectors that have a source of ionising radiation in a gas state or a source of ionising radiation whose products are decomposed in a gas state. So the message and what we've been looking for with this amendment is that the Agency's workaround that exists in Article 13 of this Law extends to Article 47, where it clearly defines what the Agency is doing. Article 13, paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4, provides for conditions for measuring the content of radionuclides and clearly stands, as well as in paragraphs 5 and 6 – for the Agency to prescribe closer to the conditions to be met by the legal person performing the tasks referred to in Article 1(1) of this Article. It is the fact that a certified method is accepted in Article 47, because there is no reason why, if, in the first part of this law, the Agency prescribes all certified methods, why it does not go through the whole law, but in part, only one part of the law, it speaks of it, and later certified methods are excluded. I think the government should have accepted this amendment, because through this whole law, certified methods should be passed, which is in the interest of the citizens of Serbia and, in general, protection against all these harmful actions against ionising radiation. Minister Dulic and I spoke a few days ago about not passing certified methods in the entire text of the law. I say once again, we expect the ministers to react to this, however, and to support the certified methods being passed through both Article 47 and other articles where I have submitted amendments, i.e. that they too may be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17694	The government proposed adding a title above members and a new member of 48a after article 48. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Vojin Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by the People’s MP, the Prophet of the Faith of Radet. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? ( No) On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? ( Yes) The word is a folk letter from Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17695	What is the objective of the SRS in all the proposed amendments is to remind and determine Article 97 point 9. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to waste any time on the explanation you have ahead of you. In fact, what is the backbone of my today's presentation is that most of our amendments were rejected because of disagreement, if I understood correctly, with existing conventions. With this in mind, you should consider what agreement there is, for example, the use of unauthorized funds, in which agreement with any convention during March 1999. However, what I would like to talk about now, I will use further time foreseen for the Parliamentary Group, but these are, again, interesting data that should be considered, even if experts from the ministry, as a consequence of NATO aggression. In the period from 27 October to 5 November, UN environmental programme experts and Yugoslav experts carried out a mission to assess environmental hazards in southern Serbia and part of Montenegro. In this mission, air sampling equipment was used and what was then an amazing fact is that after two and a half years, radioactive particles were detected in the air. This means that they continue to be transferred to large distances, through the air, endangering both the environment and the health of the population. What we are interested in in this part, which was a recommendation after certain determined results, for the release of one and a half tonnes of poor uranium on Serbia's territory, is mainly to monitor the health status of all those exposed to the actions of the banned weapons in those locations. Do you have such information and have you ever done, in cooperation, say, with the Ministry of Health, any projections and what do you do about it? What the public should also be distracted, as well as all of you who are qualified and responsible for doing so, is the situation in the once prestigious Institute of Nuclear Sciences, which we consider more than unacceptable, just because it is an area of action and how important it is for the lives of all of us. The fact is that only in this institute will you correct me if I'm wrong, there are experts who can deal with the problems that arise in the event of dangers associated with nuclear material. Just because this institute is of paramount importance, the Serbian public should be familiar with the Wind project, which is more than important to all of us. We were informed by Dr Filip Vukajlović, an associate of the Institute in Vinca, so he sent an official memo. We talked about it in principle. We also use the opportunity to draw attention to and in the debate in particular, because the Institute appears as an institute qualified to deal with this problem in a comprehensive set of laws that treat both ionic and non-ionizing radiation. What we think is unacceptable, and it seems to insist on Mr Djelic's insistence, especially in light of the financial crisis facing Serbia, is the insistence that the Vinca Institute raises a $25m loan to complete this particular project, Wind. What exactly is this about? What's trying to hide from the public, and we think it's very important from both economic and financial and health points of view, is that it's about removing spent reactor fuel and decommissioning, or breaking up reactors. It's a subject that's been discussed for years. We wouldn't be dealing with the subject much, but to be clear to the public, the whole procedure, so what the government has planned in this case, is to tear down, or cut down a reactor, which represents a unique machine. Its value, according to experts, is about $100 million. That's how you get extra nuclear waste, but about that a little later. Just to remind the public and all of you, all the equipment has been purchased for this reactor, and experts point out that it can be revitalised and driven, which would be economically profitable. However, there is currently no possibility, due to the economic bad situation. Therefore, I have to repeat the question several times – how do you think all these laws you propose are economically enforceable? So the decomposition of the reactor, which creates additional nuclear waste, logically creates another problem, which is the storage of nuclear waste. In the debate in principle, I was very concerned about the minister when I, only metaphors, showed the map, based on a statement by Mr. Perić, who is an adviser in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, that there are 13 locations where nuclear waste should be stored, and no one knows where, we only know that Vojvodina is excluded. Then we wondered what kind of waste was really involved when Serbia's cereal was excluded from that warehouse? It's, of course, just the information we hear from the press. We do not have an official response, however, but the situation is obviously, on the basis of, at least, the writing of experts who are associates and work within the Vinca Institute, astounding. You should convince us that these laws, their enforceability, will benefit Serbian citizens, will be enforceable and economically profitable and there is no need to worry. Now we're trying, for a few days, to lead as many arguments as possible, to see if it's really possible and whether we should take your word for it. The case is the Institute of ‘Vincha’. So, what's, firstly, economically invaluable, we think that we are further on track, in the wider future, if we look at ourselves, if that is possible in Serbia at all, is really threatening to close the work of a prestigious institute based on a nuclear lobby attempt. We are all here, in front of the Serbian public, and I hope you have a ready-made response to, say, the Wind project to store nuclear waste, to build the largest hangars on Serbia's territory. You also projected this legal project to build a nuclear waste storage space in 10 years. We don't know where it's gonna be. Very likely, we won't even know any time soon. Given that time is running tirelessly, and I am trying to present as much data to the Serbian public as possible, I will remain here this time, since I have two more amendments to this bill, only on the fact that it is required to destroy something that is completely economically invaluable and absolutely unnecessary at this time, that the destruction of the reactor is being sought out a 25m-euro loan, and that already 10m euros has been spent on project documentation. You will agree that it is economical, to be decent, a complete failure of those who are owned by the Serbian government to think about the Vinca Institute, which I believe we all agree is one of the most important, if not the most significant institutions when we talk about a set of environmental laws. This may be a subjective vision of one expert, but let's see what other sightings on this subject are let's see if there really is a realistic framework for these laws to be implemented throughout the territory of the Serbian state and that they, far-reachingly, mean the introduction of order, that one that affects the destruction of all environmental standards and standards will pay compensation, because it has caused terrible and catastrophic consequences for the health and life of the population. First of all, this is where we think of the members of the NATO Alliance. If you convince us that you will raise the question of responsibility for the "merciful angel" and for the use of weapons prohibited by all conventions, then we will all believe that this is in the interest of the citizens of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17696	On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 52, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 53, the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 53, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 53, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 53, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 53, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Toman. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 53, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 53, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above members 54 and to Article 54, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 56, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 57, the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 58, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 58, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 58, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 58, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 60, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 62, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 63, the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17697	On behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the proposal for a law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear security. The amendment was not accepted, and in the explanation, the government itself confirmed the position of the Serbian Progressive Party, which my colleagues, on several occasions, had brought before me, which relates to the establishment of various agencies and the multiplication of the state administration. The Serbian Progressive Party believes the establishment of an ionising radiation protection agency and nuclear security is just another burden on the budget. Under the conditions of the economic crisis, the bill provides for the government in the 2009 budget to provide funding totalling 73m dinars. I believe that the responsibility of the government for the security of Serbian citizens is indivisible and this is the job of the competent ministries, because, in the light of the bill's proposal, it is said that the functioning of the Agency's work will be ensured by the transition of employees to ionising radiation protection and nuclear safety and the management of radioactive waste, i.e. other tasks, if necessary, from the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning and the Ministry of Science and Technological Development in the Agency, to carry out the affairs in question. I think employees can do the same job in the departments instead of setting up the Agency, so they can do the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17698	On Article 63, the amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 63, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 64, the amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 64, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above article 66, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 66, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 66, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 66, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 66, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 67, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 67, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 67, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 67, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 67, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 67, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 67, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 68, the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 70, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 70, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 71, the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17699	To express my satisfaction that Minister Dulic returned to the O.R. just as necessary, given that, Mr. Minister, at that joint meeting last Monday, we were considering individual amendments. In principle, New Serbia is grateful that you organized it, but even then I had a lot to show you, unfortunately, you were prevented. That doesn't matter now, so I'd like to ask you to pay particular attention to article 71. These are measures to detect and prevent illicit transport of radioactive and nuclear materials. I will read Article 71 to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia what it is. Given this quick reading procedure, they're probably not able to keep up with these rules of procedure, which is absolutely unacceptable. "In order to detect and prevent illicit trafficking of radioactive and nuclear materials across the border of the Republic of Serbia, monitors for ionising radiation measurement (hereinafter referred to as monitors) are placed at border crossings. The agency will prescribe a procedure for using monitors and intervention procedures in case of illicit transport of radioactive and nuclear materials across the border of the Republic of Serbia. "Of course, the procurement of all these will go from the Republic of Serbia's budget. On behalf of the NS Parliamentary Group, on behalf of Article 71, I have submitted an amendment to amend attitude 2 and read: "The Agency will prescribe a procedure for using monitors, conditions for measuring radionuclide content and intervention procedures in case of illicit transport of radioactive and nuclear materials across the border of the Republic of Serbia". Reason - given the importance of the measures to detect and prevent illicit transport of radioactive and nuclear materials, I consider it important to define precisely the conditions for carrying out this responsible task, as provided for in Article 13 of this legislative proposal. Mr. Minister, we are going back to Article 13 of this Act, where it is clearly prescribed that the Agency has one procedure, and in the later text of the law, it is, in practice, losing the importance of this agency, and what the Agency is doing is incomplete. Given the very important Article 71, where we are practically protecting that anything can get in from this material, which is very dangerous for Serbian citizens, I think this amendment should have been accepted, because we would have obliged the Agency to be formed to closely monitor what happens when it enters the border, so I don't see why this amendment has been rejected. I think it's extremely good and that you still have time to accept the New Serbia amendment, because why is the formation of these agencies, Mr. Minister, if in law we lose its identity and reduce some of the information? Otherwise, it is totally unacceptable to permanently introduce some new agencies, Mr. Minister, at this moment of crisis where the state and the whole world are, where many things are explained by this global economic crisis. It's a further accumulation of administration, all of which are some new functions of directors, deputies, assistants, all of which are first-class civil servants, with huge salaries, and I think it's time to think about some of the other agencies that are functioning, and, practically, they haven't even begun to bring in some sublegal acts or to comply with some regulations. There are a lot of state appliances, as well as a lot of ministers in this country, 25, which is unacceptable. It's a massive government. This time, I would like to appeal to the government itself to take care of this crisis that Serbia is in, to react urgently that the number of ministries has fallen to some rational extent and also to consider the number of agencies and to keep only those that are really needed. There are so many agencies that bring something, and many laws will apply only when we enter the European Union one day, if we ever enter it. So, my appeal is that in this article the Agency has continuity throughout the law, not just to Article 13, because it is very important for the citizens of Serbia to ensure on the border itself that it is not enough to enter radioactive and nuclear material, i.e. once again, that there are conditions for measuring radionuclide content, practically, through monitoring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17700	Thank you. On Article 71, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 76, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) He has the word Mr. Milet Pocurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17701	For what we thought should be changed in this article, we continue to think that it is logical and we are trying to convince the legislator's representative that it is really necessary that under specific circumstances, such as the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence, inspection supervision is carried out within those two ministries. That is why we have an incomprehensible argument saying that the amendment is not accepted because the draft law has established otherwise. We went along with the amendment to change the bill, because, otherwise, as it continues, it is illogical and unacceptable that inspection and inspection are carried out by inspectors within the ministry itself, because we would have brought into dubiosis a whole series of inspection controls. So, in education, it would not be logical for the Ministry of Education to send an inspection, and in the Ministry of Health, where these affairs shake us every day, the public of Serbia, should not have the Ministry forming inspections from the same portfolio and controlling the same work. The inspection bodies are bodies independent in their work and they can give the Ministry valuable information, which is really necessary, to respect the specificity of each service. It is possible that today there is a full public and transparency in the work of the Ministry of Police and the Ministry of the Army and that, in fact, there is no longer any, previously known to us, specificities, so that it could be, for us, still unclear, inspector – which inspector, for some two ministries that we don't know exactly who the ministries are. We only suspect a combination of various ministries. If it is thought that it would be logical to transfer the jurisdiction of inspection supervision, at least for these two formations – for the military and the police within them, then the question of what inspection surveillance will be on VMA. It is an institution with specific elements of sensitivity and control, capable of self-performing, within internal control, surveillance, and certainly related to problems related to ionising radiation, of course, and non-ionising radiation. So we ask ourselves, should this amendment have been followed and rejected, because we are full of parallel practices regarding other ministries and other inspections, and this is not an incompatible matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17702	Thank you, Mr. Pocurica. To the title above Article 77, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 77, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 82, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 82, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 82, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 82, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 83, the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 83, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 84, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 84, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 84, the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 84, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 84, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 84, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 85, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Milentijevic, Milan Lapcevic and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 85, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 86, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Radulovic, Zoran Nikolic and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr Milos Radulovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17703	Thank you. The DSS parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 86. The proposal for a law on ionic radiation and nuclear security – that Article 86, paragraph 1 changes and reads as follows: "A fine of millions to millions and a half of dinars will be punishable for a violation of a legal person if... . ", the text remains the same, as that member is scheduled for some 23 points for these violations. The case works, I'm just going to point 8. I'm going to point out how much it is, essentially, serious matter, in which it really needs to follow the appropriate sanctions. It is said that if the legal person does not temporarily store radioactive waste in his warehouse in a prescribed manner and if he does not hand it over by the expiry of the prescribed time limit to the holder of the licence for the management of the temporary storage of radioactive waste, he will bear sanctions, as stated in the draft law. We are aware that this law, i.e. the Law of Infractions, is limited to millions of dinars, but we wanted to point to the seriousness of this matter and that it is necessary to regulate it with one serious legislative regulation, especially because this is radiation and, in general, European standards such that we need to adapt to them and take care of all the factors that can be created. I will also use part of the time that the DSS has to remind myself that in the Bill on Change and Completion of the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, I have pointed to one illogicality – that it is a greater tax for the transport of weapons and explosive materials than for the transport of nuclear waste, or hazardous waste. For the transport of this material, the tax is 9,430 dinars, in the law we adopted in the Assembly, I had amendments to that law, while for the weapons of 174,500 dinars. It's simple, I think it's one big illogical thing, especially if it's for the transport of ordinary waste and a transit fee of 52,000 dinars, and for dangerous waste it's 45,230 dinars. I believe that these illogicalities should be removed and more accounted for precisely this ionizing radiation and all the factors that can be the result of a poor condition, which threatens, above all, the environment. When I say "life environment", I mean all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17704	Thank you. On Article 86, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 86, the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 86, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 86, the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 86, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 86, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 86, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mrs. Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17705	I'd just like you to tell me how much time is left for the MP's group? (President: another six minutes.) Six more minutes. I will try to present in some rational time an amendment whose explanation you have, but I will leave a few more minutes, I suppose the minister will have a few things to tell us, and I would like to provide myself with the opportunity to respond, conditionally, to what we will hear, because the replica is very likely not to have, given the interpretation of Mrs Djukić-Dejanovic. What is a significant problem for us, as regards the "Vinca Institute", is a process that began some time ago, back in 2002; we are talking about the resolution of the nuclear problem in "Vinca", a enriched non-exhausted reactor fuel which is completely harmless and was returned to Russia in 2002. Let me remind you, that fuel was purchased from the Russians in the '80s and, according to international contracts, it goes back to where it was bought from. With that fuel, the Vincha reactor could work and serve science for the next 20 years, and the value of this fuel is over $100 million. All this data suggests that we treat this important institute in an inappropriate way. Our impression is that this institute is being brought into a very inexplicable situation, especially when it insists on taking a $25 million loan, which the Institute could not even pay for for a year. Another scandalous figure is that NATO's radioactive waste, during its aggression, has been dumped throughout Serbia in the form of poor uranium regularly being delivered and stored in Belgrade. For 10 years now, a contaminated country with an impoverished uranium warehouse in the metropolis has been contaminated from a location in southern Serbia. I ask all of you from the Resolute Ministry – what in the case of haiarium? Can you imagine what kind of accent, with what tragic consequences, could occur in the city and reflect on all other surrounding countries? What is also very important that the Serbian public knows, is that radioactive waste that comes from cleaning up locations stored in Hangar 2, including a contaminated country collected from three locations from southern Serbia, which is packed in 50 metal barrels of 200kg, a waste ammunition with poor uranium packed in metal boxes. It's official data from the Vinci Institute. It's like having 10 tons of polluted land in the middle of the Terrace. I'd like you to convince me otherwise, that there are no places of concern. What's our regular picture is that accidents are very common under this climate and we can project that something similar can happen in this place. Then what? What after that? The law on protection against ionising radiation provides that a place for permanent disposal of nuclear waste is to be built in ten years. We'd like to know if you have a location on your mind and what locations are we talking about? Some time ago, in the debate in principle, I presented the map, based on a statement by officials, who frightened the minister and put a very dynamic tone into the debate, but it was our way of distracting the public and getting a concrete response from the authorities – where it is planned, as it co-opted with 13 to 16 locations in the perspective. What we should really know is what kind of a picture of Serbia will be in the context of this law in those 10 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17706	On Article 86, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 86, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 88, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17707	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, respected ministers and respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 88, which reads - the rules for the implementation of this law will be laid down within one year from the date of the entry into force of this law. In view of the fact that the draft law has been delivered to the National Assembly with great delay and that a vote is expected following the debate on amendments, there is no reason why the rules for the implementation of this law would be passed in two years, because there are already rules that have been passed to enforce the law that was in force until the day of the entry into force of this law. The law rules itself, in Article 88(2), to apply the rules for the implementation of the law which was in force until the entry into force of this law, if they are not contrary to the provisions of this law. Thus, there is a part of the regulation that will continue to apply by applying the law to the force, which the old regulations, along with corrections and additions, will be able to make use of for the adoption of new ones, making it easier or partly shortened time for the adoption of new regulations. A large newspaper compared to the old law is the establishment of an ionizing radiation protection agency and nuclear safety, which should adopt sublegal regulations for the implementation of this law. The area of radiation protection has been constantly developing in the world. In most countries, there are national institutes or air protection agencies, which have experts from different areas. There are several important international institutions dealing with this area: the International Commission for Radiological Protection, the International Atomic Energy Agency, the UN Scientific Committee on Atomic radiation effects and the World Health Organisation. (President: Time. Do you want to keep using time? I'll finish. They have set up a modern concept of radiation protection, which has also been accepted in our country. In this problem we are dealing with the Institute "Vinca", Institute of Medicine and Radiological Protection, VMA, Military Technical Institute. This means that our law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety is not some unknown area that needs to be regulated for two years. This law solves major problems, such as the jurisdiction of a number of ministries, the harmonisation of the law and the real situation and the formation of the Agency. Therefore, there is no basis for two years of regulation if independent, professional persons are established in the Agency, who will do their job professionally and efficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17708	The government proposed adding a new title above members and a new member of 88 after article 88. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 89, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17709	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin to comment on the amendment to Article 89, I would like to comment that it is a good thing that the Government adopted the amendment to Article 22...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17710	Mr. Prince, excuse me, one moment, to inform you and the MPs that from this moment on we are not in direct transmission, but the delayed transmission will be during the evening. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17711	I would like to comment that it is a good thing that the government has adopted the amendment to Article 22, which I have submitted in front of Parliament's Forward Serbia Club. By adopting this amendment, it is qualitatively better to, professionally and methodologically, determine the position of the Agency and refer to an area that determines the criteria and conditions for legal persons entrusted with supplementary training and training of professionally exposed persons and persons responsible for implementing measures to protect against ionising radiation. I hope that the Government and this amendment to Article 89 will adopt, and Article 89 reads – the requirements that have been filed until the date of entry into force of this law will be settled according to the rules which were in force at the time of the application. The amendment provides for new words to be added – except for the requirements laid down in Articles 1 to 5, to which the provisions of this law will apply from its entry into force. In Article 2, paragraphs 1 to 5, all the prohibitions provided for to protect against ionising radiation and nuclear safety are prohibited. Although the application under the current law may refer to this expert-technological or legal aspect, we believe that, because of the possible abuses and the importance of the prohibitions provided for in Article 2 of this Act, it is necessary for them to be resolved under the new law and when it enters into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17712	Thank you, Professor. My lord. On Article 90, the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Beard, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17713	I just wanted to point out the provisions of Rules 147, 148 and 149, because, for the sake of the public in the work, you are not reading, you have introduced this as a practice today, as the committees have declared, as the Government has declared. That's very interesting, because we have two cases that the government has proposed an amendment and the government has rejected the amendment itself, so we have it in our shirt. Then you should give us a real shirt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17714	Thank you. There's no damage to the Rules of Procedure. It's a technical mistake. Of course the government has not rejected its amendment, it is a technical error. Here you go, Mr. Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17715	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by this amendment to Article 90, we ask that the deadline in which legal persons and entrepreneurs are required to comply with their business with the provisions of this law, at the age of three, as predicted by the proposing in the basic text, for two years. We believe that this is a sufficient period, not just enough, but the maximum possible period to be prescribed by the legislator, because it is a very delicate area, ionising radiation and nuclear security. This is exactly the period given in Article 90. The bill, within the framework of transitional provisions, should confirm the seriousness and intention of the promoter to create conditions to increase the efficiency of protection against this type of radiation, not all of the previous members of the law remain dead letter on paper and to forget all of it after three years, as countless times so far, that that deadline must also be extended, which has happened many times in this area. Let me give you an example. The applicable law on protection against ionising radiation prescribed that the sources of ionising radiation from radioactive thunderheads must be removed within three years of the date of entry into force of this law. The removal of the source of ionising radiation from radioactive lightning can only be carried out by a legal person authorised for the collection and disposal of radioactive waste material, etc., as already provided for in the positive-legal regulations. Now, under the proposal of this law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear security, users of radioactive thunderbolts have been left with a new deadline of five years to remove their sources. That's what I was talking about and why I'm asking for a shorter deadline in Article 90. It's a bill of law. You'll say it's because of the fact that there isn't, perhaps, a radiation protection agency. My colleagues spoke about the Agency, but time will deny you, as well as other agencies that you double state authorities, organizations, inspections, etc. I claim that the problem is the will, resolve and ability of the authorities to implement this in practice. Your argument that the amendment is not accepted because of the deadline for the adoption of the rules laid down in Article 88. The bill, to which we also submitted the amendment, shows that there is no previous mention, and only then the money and that there are, perhaps, other problems to address this. That's why I'm asking you to accept these two amendments, in an article. 88 and 90, because it's about human health, first those who are professionally exposed to ionizing radiation, well, eventually, to all other citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17716	Thank you. On Article 90, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulovic and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17717	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Minister, the DSS Group has tabled an amendment to the proposal for a law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear security, to Article 90(2), where we ask that deadlines be cut for removing the source of radioactive radiation and all that can cause certain incidents. We are aware that the deadline of five years, as proposed by the bill, within which all sources of radiation must be removed, is conditioned by the most economic and financial factor, but exactly what my argument regarding administrative fees shows that certain funds could be found for this economic moment, not to be so dominant, especially that we have a major problem. In Serbia, there are about 1,300 thunderbolts left that are placed on schools, kindergartens, various institutions, and continue to pose a health risk to all Serbian citizens. Article 2 of Article 4 said that the installation of radioactive thunderheads on the territory of the Republic of Serbia was prohibited, and Article 2 of Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union... (President: Mr. Radulovich, time has passed. Would you like to continue? I'm using time. ... smoke detectors having a source of ionising radiation in a gas state or a source of ionising radiation whose products are decomposed in a gas state. I think this is a subject that deserves a great deal of attention, especially since we are in this way harmonising our legislation with European legislation, so I believe that everyone present in the hall should pay attention to the presentation of MPs, not to conduct some informal talks. The DSS parliamentary group believes that these deadlines should be shortened, especially since we have some 400 locations where dangerous waste is delayed, and these days we have, we have heard from the media, several cases of various incidents, which point to one non-domestic and irresponsible behaviour towards this waste. It should also be pointed out that our country is overloaded by what was happening during NATO bombings. We also have about 117, plus Montenegro, one location, so 118 locations that have been targeted by poor uranium and what human factors, which people can do, are necessary to remove potential causes that can lead to a harmful impact on the health of Serbian citizens in the shortest time possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17718	Thank you. Mr. Oliver Dulic wants a word. Here you go. No, then it's a mistake. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17719	I'd use my MP's time, so I'd like you to tell me how much time my parliamentary group has left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17720	15 more minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17721	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, what my colleague Rade Obradovic started, I have to continue, simply because it seems that the paper only suffers everything. We've got an official shirt here. In that official shirt, we have two incredibly interesting cases, on Article 48a. and to Article 88a, for example, that the Government has proposed an amendment to Article 48a. and to Article 88a, respectively, after 88a added 88a, and after 48a, added 48a, and that the government itself did not accept the amendment. That's what it says here. Please, we didn't get any information to deny what's written here, except for that informal wave of hands, when we pointed out what you wrote here. On the other hand, the president, Mrs Dejanovic, who is otherwise a psychiatrist, said, or found that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure and there is really no reason not to believe that there is no harm to the Rules of Procedure, but that there is no harm to common sense, I don't think she can even claim it. It's just that it says here, in what you brought us. One more thing, which is incredibly comfortable. It seems that at the chair table and where the government ministers sit they're quite a lively and informal atmosphere, probably caused by not seeing each other for a few days during the holidays. Please, or let's get serious and work, because we're sitting here to work, the DSS MP group has come to do their job, or to stop this farce, because nobody here listens to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17722	It's not about official documents, it's about a reminder, and I realized there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Obradovic has not said that he wants to speak out in the Parliament's voting day if he has injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Now I ask – do you perhaps want, Mr. Raddovic, to make a statement?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17723	No need, enough of your explanation to make a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17724	Thank you. Official official material, the government's opinion, has been distributed to all parliamentary groups and that is official material. The reminder is something that is auxiliary material for the chairman and of course there's no reason not to distribute it to you, so you can follow what I'm saying while I'm here. Thank you. To the title above Article 91, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 91, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Toman. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 91, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 92, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 92, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Mašić wants a word. Would you please just sign in?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17725	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment relating to transitional and final provisions, and Article 92, which states that the Republic of Serbia will provide conditions for the permanent disposal of radioactive waste within ten years of the date of entry into force of this law. The essence of my amendment, which I have submitted in front of the Prosperity Group, Serbia, SNS, is that the deadline is to be reduced, that instead of ten years, it will be five years, because we believe that, realistically, in that time, conditions can be created, all the necessary conditions and conditions for the permanent disposal of radioactive waste to be carried out with us. Article 64 of the bill states that the Republic of Serbia is concerned about temporary storage and permanent disposal of radioactive waste. Article 2(2) states that until the conditions for its permanent disposal have been established, radioactive waste will be temporarily stored with a legal person who has a licence to manage a temporary storage of radioactive waste. Article 63 states that the holder of a radiation performance licence, i.e. the holder of a nuclear activity, is required to collect, store, record and store radioactive waste in a regulated manner and under the prescribed conditions. The holder of the licence shall ensure that facilities and premises where radioactive waste is collected, stored, recorded and stored comply with technical, safety and other prescribed conditions providing protection of humans and the environment from ionising radiation. I'll be another minute or two, if the Parliament Group has time. So, according to the proposal of this law, licence holders can store radioactive material for up to a year, which is, however, insufficient compared to the amount and need of more permanent disposal of radioactive waste. The opinion of the legislators of this law and of the Government is that the amendment is not accepted because of the complex nature and duration of the process of locating the permanent disposal of radioactive waste, which implies the necessary previous research, for five to ten years, and whose deadline cannot be shortened. So, the government itself, in looking at the essence of this amendment, is that the assessment of similarity, location and storage conditions should last from five to ten years. Since radioactive material and waste that has existed in our country for years, I assume that both the Government and the Proposer of this law already have some idea of where this waste could potentially be stored, in terms of its more permanent disposal. We think that it is sufficient for a five-year period to create such conditions, estimating even this economic situation and the crisis that is present, and, on the other hand, the harmfulness and possible consequences of inadequate storage and disposal of this waste, and we believe that the proposer of this law should accept this amendment and, on the other hand, undertakes himself to create preconditions for the storage of this radioactive waste for five years, because this should be the interest of our country, and the people for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-21-0.u17726	Thank you, Dr. Masic. On Article 92, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the examination of the bill in particular, does the proposing representative, Dr Oliver Dulic, the environment minister and spatial planning, want to give the final word? (No) I conclude the search of the bill, both in principle and in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Thank you for your cooperation. We'll continue work tomorrow, 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the fourth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Jelena Travar-Miljević, Miroslav Petkovic and Vladan Batic. I would also like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for meetings, apart from the proposing representatives, to attend: Miladin Avramov and Ivica Radovic, State Secretarys at the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, Aleksandar Vesić, Ljiljana Stanojevic, Jelena Cvetkovic and Danica Bacanović, Assistant Minister Momcilo Zivkovic, Director of the Environment Agency, and Vela Jurkovic, Director of the Environment Fund. We move to the 4th point of the agenda – PROPOSE OF THE SUBMITMENT OF THE PROTECTION OF THE PROTECTION OF THE NEJONISING AIRS (individuals) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Zoran Antić, Mićo Rogović, together Ivan Andrić, Slobodan Maraš, Vesna Pošić and Judita Popović, Milan Veseinović, Lidija Vukić, Bojan Mladenović, Vesna Marić, Vitomir Pljužarić, Zoran Krasić, Milovan Radovanović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Momčilo Duvnjak, Paja Momčov, Marina Ragaš, Ljubomir Kragović, Slobodan Vuković, Vladan Jerević, Dragan Živić, Nataša Živić, Ljubić, Ljubić Petović, Dragan Ać, Dragan Šković, Dragan Škrbić, Dragan Štović, Dragan Štović, Dragan Štavnjan Štavnović, Žjanjan Štavnović, Ožar, Ožnažar, Živić, Živić, Žjanjan Živić, Nikožilić, Niković, Niko. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received reports from the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic to Glava 1 above Article 1. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No,) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic to the title of the head above Article 3. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title of the head above article 4, the amendment was submitted by the MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
