ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24834	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. In order to determine the number of members present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Borislav Pelevic. Notification of the invitations to the session. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for the meeting today, in addition to the representatives of the promoter, Nebojsa Bradic, the Minister of Culture, and Snezana Malović, the Minister of Justice, to attend Nadica Momirov, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Predrag Blažjević, Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Tatjana Bojić-Jurić, Head of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Culture and Natasa Vukković-Lesendrić, Assistant Minister of Culture. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: –PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND APPLICATIONS OF THE PUBLIC INFORMISANJ (individence) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the MPs: Aleksandra Janković, Marina Ragus, Mićo Rogović, Vladan Batić, Tomislav Nikolic, Milos Aligrudić, Donka Banović, Milica Petković, Milica Radović, Milos Lazić, Milan Lapčević, Vladimir Milentjevic, Zoran Nikolic, Radojko Obradić, Zoran Šalić, Aleksandar Pejčić, Miroslav Petković, Milica Radović, Milos Radulović, Milos Saradžić, Slobodan Samardžić, Svetlana Tomić, Željko Tomić, Zoran Šami, Dragan Šormaz, Djuraran Šormaz, Miletar Mučnik, Milena Pošanić, Milanić, Goljanić Žaljanić, Mirjanić, Mirjanožić, Mirjanožić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirkomić, Mirkomić, Mirić, Mirkomić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirko. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, and pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before we move to the Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform the National Assembly, acting unanimously. 27, that the minister was currently prevented from attending the session, that the government had informed the Assembly that the report on the amendments accepted and the amendments submitted by the MPs would be delivered by 10.30 hours and that this was a reason to set a break, with a warning from the Government that 250 MPs were working over 18.00 hours, and through regular working hours to the Rules of Procedure, that the amendments were given to the Government and the Ministry of Culture on 16 July and that there was enough time for the Parliament to continue the work without delay. I set a break and continue the work at 11.00 p.m., when I hope it will be, if not already multiplied, and it delivered a report with the government's opinion on the amendments and will be attended by the Minister of Culture Nebojsa Bradic. I thank the Members of the People. [[After break – 11.10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government's opinion on the amendments has not arrived yet, so we're delaying work until 12:00. Please don't throw it away. On the basis of Art. The 27th and 98th Presidencies on the coordinated work of working bodies. In this case, the government is quite inconsistencies and we are making sure that respect for the Rules of Procedure is fully respected, that the government's opinion arrives and that, in the case of the government informing the Assembly, that the Minister of Culture Nebojsa Bradic is busy with international and foreign policy obligations to be a representative of the Government in the Assembly on behalf of the promoters. The government has sent you a notice on the name of the second minister, or a minister who can replace the minister in cases where there are really urgent foreign policy obligations, because it is the only thing that justifies him without being at the assembly session. The proposals, or the government's opinion, as soon as they arrive at the Assembly, we can continue our work. The assembly services will print and share the government's opinion to the MPs. The information we have is that all of this can be done by 12.00 hours, until I set a break and resume work at 12.00 hours, with apologies to the MPs who, without their guilt and responsibility, the Assembly postpones the start of the morning session. We continue to work in the debate on details at 12:00 hours by discussing the amendment to Article 1, which were submitted in the same text by the MPs Marina Ragus, Aleksandra Janković, Mico Rogović and Vladan Batic. I also inform you that RTS sent a notice to Mr. Veljak Odalovic, the secretary general of RTS, that today a direct transmission of the session takes place by 4:30 p.m. and that the rest of our work will be broadcast in a delayed transmission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24837	Mrs. Comic, in these rare moments, when the work of this Parliament is available to the public, the public should know that there are 149 violations of the member on your part, because we did not get the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted to the draft law amending the Law on Public Information and the Proposal for a Law on Culture. Your explanation that during the day or not, I don't know when we'll get the government's opinion doesn't mean that what's provided for in Article 149, because that's how it is then we could have no problem working at 10.00 hours, not start at 10.00. You are aware that the Rules of Procedure have been broken and for two hours you have tried to convince the Government to deliver opinions that are likely to form in an electronic session, you will probably now say that I do not have the right to present information from the private life of ministers, but yes, ministers are in good shape on vacation, the good part is outside of Serbia, and they will probably think that they will deliver the phone. That's their problem, but we want to have the government's opinion here, especially if the fact that the amendments to the Public Information Act have been in the public eye for days, that we've been here discussing this law in a delayed transfer that was sometime after midnight that day and when citizens couldn't directly follow what the MPs and the MPs think about that government proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24838	There is no breach of Article 149 and precisely because the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are respected and determined, on the basis of Articles 97 and 98, a break following the opening of discussions in particulars and breaks after information has been exchanged with the Government at 11.00 p.m. on whether a representative or a representative of the Government will be present and whether the material of the Government's opinion has been completed. Article 149 states that the Assembly is considering amendments, i.e. having a debate in particular with the opinion of the Government. The session also includes Culture Minister Nebojsa Bradic and other authorised proposing representatives, Mrs Snezana Markovic-Samardzic, and all the conditions are met for the debate to take place in the Rules of Procedure, and as soon as the press is finished, the MPs will receive the opinion of the government and the parliamentary clubs here and here in the hall, as usual. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24839	National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic points to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I am reporting on the basis of Article 100 of Rules 1, 3 and 4, and on Articles 93 and 94, and I believe that you have injured, Madam Chairman, Article 27, because in the follow-up of today's session, you have delivered all the necessary notices to the MPs as to why we are late with today's work, although you have opened the session, said when we will receive what material, when it will be transferred, and when it will not be, but I am obliged to warn you on behalf of my parliamentary group that you did not respond to a letter that was sent to you last night by the president of the MP Tomislav Nikolic Group, where he warned you that you had roughly violated the Rules of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24840	National MPs, the pronunciation of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure can only refer to injuries that occurred directly during the session. No letter sent by any representative of the parliamentary group to anyone can be a reason to receive a word based on article 100. It may be your will to abuse the right to a word based on Article 100, but it must be my obligation to prevent the abuse of the right of an MP from talking about a breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milos Aligrudic has the right to speak. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24841	I believe that you have injured Article 27, which says, among other things, that the President of the National Assembly, which refers to the chairman, is the old one on the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The ageing on the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly implies, among other things, that the notices made during the protesting of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure are given correctly and do not contain any misinformation on the content of the Rules of Procedure and on the importance of its provisions. When you gave notice after pointing out the violation of Mrs. Verice Radete's Rules of Procedure, you misread what is in Rule 149 of this Rules of Procedure, so that those who follow this transfer, and have the right to do so because the citizens who chose us, knew. I will read to you this article, which consists of your injury, in interpretation, it is said - the legislator, the committees responsible, and the Government are obliged to consider before the National Assembly meetings amendments submitted under the bill and to inform the National Assembly which amendments propose that the National Assembly accept them and which it rejects. Before the session, it also means informing the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24842	There's no injury, sir. 27th and 149th. Please do not abuse the right to receive a word based on an article. 100. Before we began the discussion in particular, the National Assembly was informed of everything regarding the government's obligation to submit a report on amendments, the government's obligation to be present at the meeting and what is not a business obligation, but it is a good custom that was established, to inform the National Assembly of the course of direct transfers, of the time when the session of the National Assembly will be in direct transmission. It is not an obligation to the Rules of Procedure, but it represents, I believe, a good custom that we have established together, so there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Mico Rogovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24843	I'm reporting for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24844	I apologize to Parliamentarian Mica Rogovic, it was a name on the panel to be managed, so I'd better call you wrong than break the Rules of Procedure, so I don't give you the right to the word. The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24845	In the course of the session, you violated Article 27, paragraph 1 point 5 and Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I stress directly and in the course of the session because these days, both you and Mrs Djukić-Dejanovic are violating the Rules of Procedure and insulting the dignity of the National Assembly. It is not your sole right to assess whether the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. Every MP has the right to evaluate and assess the dignity of the National Assembly in a harsh way, as you are now doing, is threatened. I will ask for both this and the previous announcement that in the day of voting, the National Assembly is to declare whether you have hurt the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Comic, if you're saying you didn't hurt Article 149, then I would ask you to explain to me how you... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24846	People's MPs, you can't talk twice about the same injury on the basis of article 100, which you've already been told about, both Article 149 and Article 27. Now, I warn you not to abuse the right to be given under Rule 100 when it comes to speaking of injury to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24847	I am Jorgenka Tàbaković, not Tabáković, and it changes my last name in quality, when you deliberately infuse it. You're an intelligent woman, otherwise a cursed nerd who can remember that. Please record my report to the Rules of Procedure, Article 103(2). It is not about any letter and any letter, but about denying the MP of the Prosperity Group that Serbia should speak within Articles 93 and 94. The Rules of Procedure of this congregation. You have severely injured the Rules of Procedure for not providing us with a notice that would disprove the false claim that this time was used.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24848	People's MPs, Jorgenka Tabakovic, I'm sorry about the accent. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic demands that in the day of the vote, we make a statement on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Article 103rd position. The one you called for says no one can interrupt the speaker, nor warn him except the president of the National Assembly in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. The case provided for in this Rules of Procedure is that the MP or the MP is obliged to respect Article 100 and that the chairman is obliged to apply the Rules of Procedure, so that the member of the 100th is in application during the session of the National Assembly. Article 100 says that there is talk of an injury that occurred just before the right to speak of the injured of the Rules of Procedure and a member of the 100th says that the same injury cannot be talked about twice. It is every chairman of the obligation, when he hears in his explanation that it is not about the respect of Article 100 but about the abuse of the right to speak, to intervene under Article 103 paragraph 2. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24849	When I came forward with the word "infringement" of the Rules of Procedure, I realized that you had violated a member of the 100th that we are reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure because you misread the position of the 2nd and the position of the 4th member. According to point 2, the MP cannot point to an injury in the actions of the president of the National Assembly, or the chairman, to which it has already been indicated. That's how it works. Then you realized when the previous exhibitor, the Verse of Radeta, was descriptively calling for a previous exposition of Article 149's injury. You then interrupted the contrary position of the fourth member, who says you have to listen to the one who has something to explain in those two minutes, and only then criticize what he's talking about, interpreting how he's talking about the same injury to the Rules of Procedure. No, she was saying all the time, we all understood that, about the injury of Article 104, and she said that you hurt the dignity of the National Assembly with your behavior. Whether she was right or wrong, that's what you're gonna tell her. I can't go into it right now, but it's rude and certainly contrary to the Rules of Procedure to interrupt it during the hearing and not listen to what the point of giving the example she set, because she cited the example to show how you violated the Rules of Procedure. Whether or not you are, it is further in the Rules of Procedure worked out how it is handled and what in that case you say and what you think.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24850	People's MP, and I'm warning you of abuse of right to word. The content of your argument referred to a comment of the explanations that I gave as chairman for the violation. I ask you not to gesture and to treat yourself with decent non-verbal communication in the National Assembly, because rude gestures can be regarded as a violation of Article 104, since non-verbal gestures also show courtesy, rudeness, insult, humiliation or any kind of behavior that is forbidden during the session of the National Assembly. So your argument was to comment on the statement of the People's Parliament which received the word, with an attempt to explain to me that my explanation of the injury she pointed out was wrong. It can't. You can ask, as requested by the People's Parliament of the Witch of Radeth, and he has the right to make a declaration about the injury of the National Assembly. Consider my explanation for the injury you can't, as you can't even claim a replica. The right to the replica is the discretionary right of the chairman, and the MP or MP, dissatisfied with the explanation, are asking for a declaration of injury by the National Assembly in the day of the vote. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24851	You have just violated the Rules of Procedure, in violation of the provisions of Article 104, because you have injured me. Your exposure hurt me, and I need to explain to you what that injury is about. You disrespected me by misrepresenting what I was saying, by trying in front of the public and the MPs in this National Assembly to interpret my views by explaining what they mean and what they mean by any gestures as I speak. And you, as you speak, are making gestures by raising your eyebrows in another way, and no one is commenting on you for that. That's one thing. The second thing, when we talk about this violation of Rule 104 of Article 2 of you demeaning those who speak, you can't tell the truth about what I said. The injury I pointed out in the context of this injury that I'm talking about, and that's the explanation, it wasn't at the time that you misinformed the public about what I was commenting on your explanation, God forbid, I commented on the fact that you interrupted the speaker two minutes ago, not hearing the explanation of what the injury consisted of. Mrs. Komic, that was the basis of my announcement for the word, not what you just pointed out, and what you said was deliberately done to demean me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24852	I will never, nor demean any of the messengers of the people, nor the people's congregation. The interruption of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radete was in accordance with Article 103(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that I am obliged to apply. National MP Milos Radulovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24853	Madam Chairman, I'm advertising an article. 27, 100, 104 and 148. Article 27, I quote and beg you not to take this time away from me...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24854	National MP, I would like to inform you that the provision of time reserved for quotes does not exist in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly since the adoption of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I also remind you and inform you to read the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to which we are called. So you can't ask me not to include the time needed to quote you, since that provision doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure from the moment of entry into force of the Rules of Procedure you are currently calling upon. You have two minutes to explain the other injuries you quoted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24855	Madam Chairman, if you would take more care of your presentation, you would certainly allow MPs to be more efficient and to finish what is on the agenda faster. You shall use at least 60 minutes at each session where you chair for some inexhaustible explanations. You want to prove to the MPs that you're the smartest. You're just the chairman and nothing else at this point. I will refer to Article 148 which clearly states that the President-in-Office of the National Assembly submits to the legislator, the MPs, the committees responsible and the Government. Article 149 says, the legislator, the committee responsible and the Government, are obliged to consider amendments submitted on the draft of the law before the meeting of the National Assembly and to inform the National Assembly of which the amendment proposes to be accepted by the National Assembly and for which to reject them. You didn't do it. You just delivered us this piece of paper that says who's authorized by the Secretary-General to represent the government. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure. It is not the Members of the Rules of Procedure that violate it, but it is you who insist on violating it and abuseing your position as chairman. I ask in the day to vote that the Assembly declares the breach of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24856	The People's MP, part of the injury you have committed in an attempt to explain it has already been repeated and has already been pointed out twice, with a warning that this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and I have given an explanation both at 10 and 11 o'clock, and now twice after the MPs ignore that there are provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that apply equally to all. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24857	You interrupted me, which is why I also advertised Article 103(2), but you will not be able to say that my violation of the Rules of Procedure applies to another day or work, and that is why the infringements of the Rules of Procedure in yesterday's work have been committed, but I am already insisting that you are a national MP who holds the dignity of this assembly and who, in the capacity of the chairman of the sea, with the remaining important notice of today's work, to inform me whether the Prosperity Club will have the right to use Serbia 15 plus 25 minutes or, for unknown reasons, will deny us seven minutes of speech as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. You are obliged to inform me whether it is someone's fault, who is responsible and to prove that it will not happen again at today's session, or in today's work. It's not a mistake that happened and doesn't produce any facts about today's work. First, for reasons of responsibility, you are obliged to say that this error occurred or to convince us otherwise, which is impossible, and to say that such or such a work will not happen again, as you gave the more precise way of interpreting Article 93 yesterday, in which the time of the authorising officer can be used on two occasions, but exclusively divided into ten plus ten minutes. That goes back to yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24858	Two minutes. Thank you. It is possible that you were not present in the hall, but you can see from the insight into the stenogram that before I began to inform all the MPs about who the representatives were in the debate today, I cannot tell you exactly how many hours, but in the stenogram it can be seen, and that I reminded all MPs of how much time is available to the parliamentary groups, the authorised representatives, and that I reminded you that it was a joint principled search and that in that case we have a united time to discuss in particular. I understand if you weren't in the O.R., but I ask you before we point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which has not happened, that we consult at least colleagues from our parliamentary group, so we don't spend time together with the Members of Parliament who have heard the announcement and that we don't abuse the right to say the word when given for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. The letter you're talking about is still standing, it's about yesterday's event, and that communication between the president and the service of the National Assembly and the parliamentary group that has no impact on the current session. You want to talk again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24859	Mrs. Komic, I would like to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 105, paragraph 1, because he says, "Here's to remind you, about the order of the National Assembly session and you are currently taking care of it as the chairman, and the order of the session implies the right of MPs to take advantage of the time this Rules of Procedure allows. Yesterday you read how much time this parliamentary group has and an authorized proposing, and then you stole that time from us. Today you have read, been present and present, but until we determine who is responsible for yesterday's problem, I have no doubt that you will violate the Rules of Procedure and deny us the time, even though you have said by reading who and how much time is available. We can't without determining responsibility in this case and in principle nothing in this society to move and all your brains, and yours and mine and all your colleagues, are worth nothing if this is how you want to stay in stubbornly excavated trenches of misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24860	People's MPs, I'm not doing anything but taking care of the order. Yesterday's reading of the provisions of Article 93, paragraph 1, paragraph 4, has nothing to do with today's beginning and my ageing on the order that I reminded all MPs of how much time total, which and how it has in the discussion of details. There is no violation of article 105 and can only, with your previous request, be declared to the Assembly in the day of the vote. Would you like some? Yeah. ) To make the National Assembly known about the injury brought out by the MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24861	This time something quite fresh, not since yesterday, a violation of Article 104(3) on your part by saying to the MP that he tried to explain. He doesn't have an explanation. It explains the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which may or may not be right, you will certainly state your position. You can't tell someone he's trying to explain. You know, it's an offensive expression and it's directed directly to your fellow MP and you're not fair about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24862	People's MP, you've been warned that you can't explain what I'm doing in breach of the Rules of Procedure that you stand out as a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: It is not an explanation. ) The explanation is given to the MP who asked for a plea. (Milos Aligrudić, from the place: You do not listen to me and you have never listened to me.) () If the MP is not satisfied with the explanation, he may request that in the day of the Parliament’s vote he declare himself. (Milos Aligrudić, from the place: You are intolerant, insolent and insolent. I pray that along with this second explanation, we will honor the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly together. Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24863	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 166(3) has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In this regard, Article 166(3) states that the amendments are to be made by the legislator, the committees responsible and the Government. I want to remind you, Mrs. Comic, that in the past two days, two ministers have been literally hired to complete the principle debate by 1800 hours. The government has announced in all the draft laws, i.e. in its reasoning, that there are laws that need to be passed by emergency procedure because there is a threat to the safety of the country, the work of state authorities and organisations, human health, etc. We now see that this is not so, that these are not so important and urgent laws, as soon as the government has not accepted to write its opinion on amendments submitted by the MPs. You today, Mr. Bradic, are going to tell us about culture, to be a representative of the government that takes care of culture in Serbia, and what the Serbian Government is doing and how it treats the National Assembly is the first anti-culture. There's no political here, there's no elemental civil culture here. The minister who called to give the president's closing statement, or chairing, the right to deny it so that the debate on God's force for purely irrational reasons could end by 6:00 p.m. That's how you've been doing it for the past two days. Today, on July 22, 2009, 12.30 p.m., the government was reluctant to give its opinion on amendments submitted by MPs. Now a fundamental logical question is raised – why haste in the past days, why the humiliation of ministers, why the humiliation of the National Assembly and why the shutting down of television cameras at a time when the highest ratings of the National Assembly and when citizens of the Republic of Serbia would be very happy to see and hear what is so important in laws, about which amendments the government has not approved to write its opinion here is almost...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24864	Thank you. National MP, precisely because of the desire not to violate a member of either 166, or a member of 149, we had two delays and giving all the necessary notices to the National Assembly. And as chairman and as one of 250, I can quite agree with part of your argument, that it is unacceptable for the government not to meet its obligations quite on time. That is why there is also a decision by the National Assembly to give the Government a very clear instruction and it is under the obligation to finish its work and to suffer criticism over the fact that 250 of us can do after 1800 hours, and in time for the affairs to be done by 10.00 today, the government should be in charge. It will be held during this month and a session on parliamentary matters. I hope that not only will we from the ruling majority ask this question to the government but also our fellow opposition colleagues. Thank you. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. I'm asking the Deputy Secretary to help the MP see if the microphone is related, whether the card is in the MP's unit, so he can answer the word. It happens that the microphone loses contact with the MP's unit and then it's impossible to give a word. National MP Milos Aligrudic is at stake, Mr. Pudar, not MP Nenad Prokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24865	Madam Chairman, by your unequal treatment of the MPs, you have directly violated Rule 27 and 105 of this Rules of Procedure, by some of us having the right to speak for over two minutes about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which has proved very clear at a time and what can be determined by the verification, and some cannot even be stopped for 40 seconds without being unsustainable, so that they cannot expose to the end what they intend to explain to you at all what the injury consists of.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24866	Member of the People's Parliament, each MP shall be informed when two minutes are when he speaks and explains the breach of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 100(1). In cases where the MP abuses the right to receive word of injury to the Rules of Procedure, then I apply Article 103 and give warnings not to abuse. All MPs have equal rights and we all need to know what rights we have in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are recorded. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic. In the day to vote, the assembly will declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which was highlighted by MP Milos Aligrudic. National MP Miroslav Markicevic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of an article. The 100th century is the 1st century.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24867	The President-in-Office, I would like to announce the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Rule 148(1) – the President-in-Office of the National Assembly submitted to the legislator, the MPs, the committees responsible and the Government. So, from what I've heard these half-hours of the previous debate in the Rules of Procedure, I conclude that the President of the National Assembly has not even sent amendments to which the Government was to plead. Yes, there's no reason for the government not to plead. As proof of how it's done to give you the letter I received from the minister sitting there, who received a public notice from that place. She claims in the letter she sent me that no amendment had been delivered to her last time, and you know what amendment it was, because I've been talking about him for months. Therefore, to convince us here and inform the National Assembly – did the President of the National Assembly ever deliver amendments to the Government? Our government is the best government in the world. How is it possible that they did not plead, if they had received amendments they would have pleaded. They didn't even get the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24868	National MP, Article 148's position cannot in any version be a matter of violation of the Rules of Procedure, and absolutely no version of it knows that you and I know it. I ask you not to abuse the right, to use our right to speak our mind and to fill the debate with good information for all of us, through replicas, it is always allowed, but not to abuse one procedural right which is a good right and for the chairman, anyone to chair, and for all the MPs. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word under Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24869	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that Article 164(2) has been injured. Only laws governing issues and relations can be adopted following an urgent procedure due to circumstances that could not be foreseen, and the adoption of laws under urgent procedure could cause adverse consequences for people's lives and health, the country's safety and the work of organs and organisations. I believe, Mrs. Comic, that by avoiding its obligation to deliver its opinion to the National Assembly on amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Information and to the Law on Culture, the government of Serbia has severely violated Article 164 of Article 2 and that because the Serbian government is not doing its job properly, the lives and health of people are at risk in the Republic of Serbia, the country's security and the work of organs and organisations. These are very difficult qualifications. So I ask you as chairman to plead on what measures you propose to the National Assembly to take under these extremely difficult circumstances, when people's lives and health, the country's security and the work of organs and organisations are at risk in the Republic of Serbia. I want to ask you: when did the National Assembly make the decision that you mention to direct any recommendation or instructions to the Government that within the deadlines prescribed by the Rules of Procedure it would do its job? I have been sitting in this congregation for days, and so have my colleagues, and I was not present at that time when the assembly voted on such a decision. So your personal opinion and your personal opinion can be welcomed, but it is not true that the Assembly voted any decision in that direction. I ask you as chairman to propose measures to the National Assembly in a situation where people's lives and health are at stake, the country's safety and the work of organs and organizations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24870	Two minutes. Thank you. Your proposal could be considered if the government hadn't already considered the amendments. I ask the People's Parliament to not throw it away, especially rudely, while I give an explanation, with a reminder that she has already been warned of the abuse of Article 100. Therefore, it would make sense to give it for consideration, but I have already informed the National Assembly that the government has considered and that it is a matter of printing the government's opinion to be delivered to the MPs, and that the session is attended and authorised by Minister Nebojsa Bradic and Minister Snezana Samardzic-Markovic, so that all the necessary information on the revised amendments will be given to the National Assembly. Your second objection to giving instructions and the idea that the Assembly had decided on it, I apologize to the National Assembly if that was how the failure sounded what I wanted to present as information, that by looking after a Roman member of the 27th order, I reminded the government of their obligations. So it is not about any decision of the Assembly, nor is it the work of the congregation, it is the work of one who presides over the fact that all those involved in the work of the congregation do so according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If the word "decision" is said in the slip, at this point I can't really remember, I apologize to the MPs. It is not about the decision of the National Assembly, but about the application of Article 27 and the application of Article 98, the care of the agenda. National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24871	Dear President-in-Office, I call on Article 234 that the MP has the right to be informed of all matters necessary... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24872	National MP, I warn you not to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. People's MP, don't throw it away. Therefore, Article 234 cannot be subject to wording under Article 100(1). National MP Dragan Šormaz has been rudely dismissed, and MP Zoran Nikolic is helping him to throw it off the table. I ask you either to actually notice a breach of the Rules of Procedure or to think of your legitimate wish, which I support, and to use two or three minutes to express your position, so as not to violate the Rules of Procedure, neither you nor I. It may also be a replica of anyone's exposure, it may also be a member of the Rules of Procedure that may be the subject of injury, but Article 234 cannot. I'm glad you're happy with the explanation. National MP Mico Rogovic wants to talk about the amendment to Article 1. National MP Milos Aligrudic, another violation of the Rules of Procedure. I remind you that I gave you two warnings and now you, before you got the word... National MP Milos Aligrudic throws - what does it look like? It looks like the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, pre-exiting the measures required by Article 100, he warns MPs and reminds me that they do not violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and now I ask you not to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that you do not force me to, to all of us, quite unpopular measures to impose punishment. You have your word and I beg you to use the word you receive, wanting to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24873	You've just hurt the Rules of Procedure. I'm talking about two injuries in a row, succesively, I'm going from last to last. So now you've hurt the Rules of Procedure by insulting me to God, for a moment. Infringement of Article 104(3). Everything you just said, and if you weren't able to hear what I'm going to say about it, what I'm reporting for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's really a shame. Then you interpreted to those citizens who listen to the transmissions more about what I allegedly threw from the scene. You know how, that kind of rudeness doesn't hurt me, it does to whoever does it. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is the following, which I wanted to point out, which, I say again, you can say exists or does not exist, or that my explanation was wrong, but you cannot teach me moral lessons and lectures, because your place does not allow you to do so. The position of Article 5 of the 100th you have injured, because you cannot apologize for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you can only remove it or say it was not done in your explanation when the MP points to it and that is all. I spoke for a minute and 20 seconds, not even a full two.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24874	People's MP, I'm going to consider your confession to be a good communication, and there's no breach of Article 100 of Article 5, of course. National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24875	I'm ready to make an advance. So it's not a dispute, and I insist that you punish me with the strictest punishment. I appeal to Article 235 that the MPs have the right to... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24876	Article 235 is applied on Tuesdays and Thursdays, before the beginning of the session, and after the quorum is determined, and cannot be the subject of an injury Wednesday at 12.50 p.m. National MP Mico Rogovic has the floor of the amendment to Article 1. National MP Veroljub Arsic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24877	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I'm advocating damage to the Rules of Procedure, 27, 169, 170, 171. You keep trying at this session to continue the debate of the draft law in particular and now I ask the question do you chair the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and represent the MPs or do you represent the Government of the Republic of Serbia? This seedling was scheduled three days before the beginning of the session while the previous session was under way, at the government's request, so I ask the second question - if the government is in such a hurry to vote all these laws now when it is not their time, especially if no one's crown will fall from their heads if these laws are not passed, especially not this one, why hasn't it prepared the reasons for the amendments in time? Because if we are one second late, our amendment will not be accepted and rejected by the Legislative Committee? If the Government has not delivered the amendments and has not been shared with the MPs on their amendments, it cannot take one second to hold a session until that opinion is obtained. One more thing, don't start with a story about how a session can work without the government's opinion. He can't, when the government's a law enforcement officer. It can be done when it's a parliamentary group, so the government wants to prevent the law from being passed. If the government is proposing, it has to give an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24878	People's MP, except you haven't explained what the infringements of Members of 169 consist of and which he can't be harmed at this point, in the context of your explanation for Article 27's injury, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure and I've explained several times why it happened. People's MPs are getting that the government has no opinion. The government has an opinion on amendments submitted to the laws and will be delivered to you, printed. You have a minister who will answer everything you want to know. National MP Mico Rogovic has the word as an applicant for the amendment to Article 1, which was submitted in the same text by the MPs Marina Ragus, Aleksandra Jankovic, Mico Rogovic and Vladan Batic. Mico Rogovic answered the question. Here, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24879	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens, risking, Mrs. Komic, whether I have observed well, as you say, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, I must ask you in the context of this amendment whether you are violating the Rules of Procedure by using terms that do not exist in the Rules of Procedure, which do not exist in any law, except in any recommendation, your personal views, about you addressing us with a People's MP, Members of Parliament and those terms that you use, you automatically violate the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I want to say that you are violating the Rules of Procedure by giving notice to us and representatives elected by the people that the authorised person by the Government will also be Mrs. Snezana Samardzic-Markovic, and you should have probably said that besides Mr. Bradic, this session will be attended and mentioned by the minister. That's two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The next thing I want to say about the time foreseen for the amendment is that perhaps Mr. Bradic did it, promising us at the previous session that all our objections would apply and then on the basis of which to talk about the tabled amendment and everything else, when Mr. Minister made such a promise, in which he stands Decidantly that all our objections would be incorporated into the proposed amendments and additions to the Public Information Act. I even expected that Mr. Bradic would not spoil his reputation from previous years, dealing with culture now, even if he were to withdraw in some areas of his boy dreams, into rock music, because he has a group leader. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24880	Anyone else want a word from the amendment applicants? Before I give my word to Parliamentarian Marina Ragush, I would like to inform you that the LDP parliamentary group for the authorised representative, and according to points 1 and 2, has appointed the MP Nenad Prokic. The word is Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24881	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Bradic, I am pleased to see you today in this place, given that the SRS continues where we left off in a united debate, so that this debate in particular will, of course, be just a follow-up to that story we started a while ago, trying to finally come up with some answers that are very staged for the whole media space. If those two minutes are up for the amendment, I will inform you that I will use time for the parliamentary group. Thank you. We have tabled nine amendments to this draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Information because we felt it necessary to show through the amendments our position which is unequivocally on the side of freedom of expression. Now it is very likely that many who try to make parallels with the 99th Public Information Act will smile on why the SRS defends it in this way. I need all present colleagues and the entire Serbian public, to be precise, to remind: The Public Information Act was proposed by then by Minister of Information Aleksandar Vukic. That law isn't Seselj's law, it's Wolf's law. Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS in the then government, was in charge of the economy, not of social activities, and especially of information. The area belonged to the Yugoslav United Left, or Mr. Bojic. I would ask you, like all those who follow these regular sessions, and in terms of precision of expression, that you do not make such flagrant mistakes in the future. Mr. Minister, we said at the beginning that we think that this bill on amendments and additions to the Public Information Act is also very bad and that we should withdraw from the procedure, because everything that the SRS predicted through the amendments is unthinking this proposal, as you have delivered to us here. But somehow, given that regularly when SRS MPs talk about such sensitive subjects dealing with freedoms in general and protect freedom of expression, I often refer to sources that are close to you and the sources you rely on. So, given that we are all witnesses of a very significant public debate in the media and in certain stands, among the people of the profession, those who are qualified to speak of this law in a special way, Mr Bradic, it seems to me that it would be best to preserve your reputation, your ministry and protect freedom of expression, that this bill is withdrawn. We will make sure that through these only nine, but we consider essential amendments, we try to correct something we appreciate that can be fatal for Serbian media space or at least what the tar space should be. The explanation of this amendment, we predicted that the entire article 1 should be deleted because it was not clear first. Article 1, because of the public, provides for a capital ratio. We were also involved in mathematics, so we calculated that about 20 daily and over a thousand other periodic publications were going out in Serbia. It was obvious to us, and you, Mr. Bradic, are very likely to either confirm or deny me during the debate, that the proposer wants to fill the budget with an additional 20m euros in dinar equivalent. We know that the IMF delegation comes in August, we know what the situation is when it comes to our GDP, and we know that a very bad autumn awaits us. So the SRS, that's our political position, I think that this member of yours wanted to add to your budget, but not just that. We are still thinking about this proposed law. Of course, what you predicted with the financial amount of capital will certainly not be able to send out all the media and this will further mean that many media will not be able to enter the race. The question is, which media and which owners will be able to tell this story. During the debate, we will show who the real owners are in the Serbian media space and that instead of really empty stories, let's say we talk about what Mr. Knezevic started, and we will continue to explain the topic of one dinner at the Paris-based Hotel "Ric" and mastering the media space in Serbia. It's a topic that should be on this agenda, if you were going to introduce order into Serbian media space. I have to tell you, Mr. Bradic, that this is a less and less Serbian media space, and during the debate, we will certainly prove it to you. I am giving myself the freedom to think about it in the following way, that you may not know everything, but when you started this topic, then I thank you at least for the attention and opportunity to put this out in the open, with no gloves and to the end a very clear position, and it concerns everything that is a complete occupation by people who are, least of all, the owners of very dubious capital. During the debate, we will deal with this in more detail, and we will demand an investigation into it. So, what we have also foreseen, this is seen in the light of this amendment, and of course the circumstances under which it is adopted and proposed such a proposal for a law on public information. We think that this Article 1 will definitely lead to the closure of many media, then I would like to hear from you that you think that protecting the right to work of all those who live within these media and from the media is really a solid number of people, I don't think anyone can, especially the socially responsible government or one who claims it to be to allow another such problem. It's not clear, let's just say, one of the topics that appeared in the media and in certain news circles, we've been thinking loudly all this time trying to get a more precise answer, let's say who the media representatives you were talking to when you were making this bill, the answer to that question we didn't get. I'm sorry if you said and I missed, so I didn't hear, I asked you a specific question, I mean in the debate, a single debate. So what happens, say, if the owner of the vote decides to suspend the distribution of his vote in several municipalities? Will that affect the financial amount of the underlying capital? Also, it's not clear who's going to keep that money? Where is that basic capital being deposited? These proposed legal solutions are very imprecise, and when it comes to legal solutions, it seems, and when it comes to such matters, that they should leave less and less room for free judicial interpretation. In this explanation, the public works, it is quite unclear how in just 12 hours the court is scheduled to give the founder a measure of temporary suspension of the work of issuing a public message? And what was in no way clear to us, as well as to all those who are in the media space in Serbia, how does the prosecutor order the court to give the measure in 12 hours? Then we don't need a court or, Mr. Braddick, should it be just your jurisdiction or is all the concentration of power that's going to be able to survive or not actually put in just one man? What can the court do in 12 hours? These are the questions we hope to get answers to, and we will also help you with this debate, I will not say transparent, but airy to all those who follow this regular session. It seems to me that we will be able to answer the question of who are the real media owners in Serbia, who owns, say, "Economist Group", who bought "The Weekly Telegraph" and how Cane Subotic tried to master the media space in Serbia, and the state made it possible for him to do so. In doing so, we will very much remind ourselves of the working biographies of all those tycoons who are slowly, but surely making private property from the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24882	The time available to the SRS parliamentary group, seven minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group? (The Faith of Radeta, from place: Seven and 43 she spent on the parliamentary group. ) Just to know whether from the time of the parliamentary group or... ? MPs' groups. Then it stays 59 minutes and 50 seconds. Do any of the amendment applicants want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24883	Dear Vice President, my time is running out, and you're talking to Veronica Radet. Do I give you a warning? Stop the time and start over. I had 11 seconds during your dialogue, which is not foreseen by the Rules of Procedure at all, not even Chomićkin's. The law is said to be called "Dinkic's" law, and the Rules of Procedure say that "Comickin" is the Rules of Procedure. I really don't remember raising so much media dust after the law against discrimination in the public, as is the proposal to amend and supplement the Public Information Act. Despite media darkness, the lies of politicians who invented a new folk proverb – who steals and lies, Serbs are a great people who can feel the essence in the dark. That's why these laws are called the Young One. A small man, whose money is simply glued to his fingers and who in his childhood loved the story of King Midas, that's the one who touches everything that turns into gold, learned that the media is gold, so he went into his dealings with those who, without a previous verdict, threaten him, because they're actually writing him the indictment. So what he lied about was free action, the big investment of Fiat in the domestic automotive industry, he promised to pay back the Cypriot money, open hundreds of thousands of jobs. He is neither the first nor the only one who lies and steals this people, and all in the name of the people. He realized the essence of the essence, which some young man like the media would say, so he has a good impression of the fabula of the store. The Serbian word for judgment does not imply the presumption of innocence, but that everything is resolved before the court or by a court of law. This young man Minhauzen, the destroyer, was waving around in his hobby, so he entered the clich not only with the media, but also with the advisory team of idols, and with his highness, the beautiful Bora. When a man long believed he was completely untouchable, irreplaceable... (President: Two minutes, MPs. I'm using the MP's time group. So, when a man has long believed that he is completely untouchable, irreplaceable and the world's best specimen, he slowly separates himself from reality, neglects that he is the first politician, then only then a musician, which means that his chances of defeating the former musicians "Littles", the current advisers of Big Boss, are minimal. He's the one who's nagging at May's wires, and they're the flames, and you're out of your sleep. It does not help him to see some of his coded party pushed out, nor did it help him to have some committed themselves to endurance as media virgins. The July question, with Hamlet's dilemma, in Junior and Bore's kid is who's bigger; I mean, of course, the influence. Not even the great magma directed by the Krushevac Progeny, open to Quiria, and closed to Hilandar, could hardly have done anything about it. This is a worse damn avalanche than the ones his director's eyes have ever seen. He will remain remembered as a man who said thank-you-young sentences for some new commendation of insanity – I am a director, so I am invited to seduce order in the media; or – we must not allow the devastation of cultural substance. This is understood only by his colleague in the esoteric code Saša Milenić, and the top is the finding – we need a verbal and ecological clean environment. If my words are recycled enough for this director in culture and the Minister of Ecology in an attempt, the question arises – what is he talking about in the currencies of humanity? Diesel would probably ask him – brother, have you tried Mladja? The tortured culture minister, who behaves as the Navy minister in this short Serbia, is not as oiled as the Young, so he is given unconscious slips. First, he prescribed the law on culture from Croats, and then in the Serbian Parliament, expunging the serial law, as the esteemed G17 plus vice-president of parliament would say, addressed lawmakers. He didn't have to add "For Home, Ready." But let's get back to the point. In psychotherapy, it is known that the process is often more important in diagnostic and therapeutic terms than content. For example, someone with a despised expression of narcissistic disgust tells you – I love you too. Clear code G17, plus for good diagnosis. Young vs. Srdjan, 0-1 for Sharpe, Jr. against Krlet, 0-1 for Doctor of Idol, Jr. against Boris, although the match is staged, it must be 100-0 for Bora. In the process, it looks like this: Young as a bad cop beats the media, the Idols are inserted, and the yellow ones fix the content of the law to the amendments because they, the honorable Tito's pioneer word, are the last to choke the freedom of the media. The government is working fast, and it is catching itself in the repression of aggression and correcting content by bargaining with the media. All right, there's no shovel on the butt, but there's gonna be flashes on the handles. Only the process remains, that traitorous betrayal of truth, which can never and never be killed. Everything that is secret will become public - it says in the Gospel. It is and it is. We've lost both our time and our nerves and spent our vocal cords, at least my opposition. Those in power are just about to get decubitis from the blindness of the armchairs. In the wisdom he has developed by experiencing all the temptations of the poor corrupt and arrogant authorities, he has protected himself by turning off televisions, not buying newspapers, cooling himself in standing and running waters, coughing in his elbow because of Tomica's H1N1 and waiting, waiting for his own autumn. In the end, they'll be right idols - the flames of dawn wake us out of sleep.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24884	The time available for the parliamentary group is six minutes and three seconds. Do any of the amendment applicants want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Aligrudić, Jovan Palalić, Milos Radulović, Miroslav Petkovic, Zoran Shami, Željko Tomic, Milica Vojić-Marković, Zoran Nikolic, Vladimir Milentijevic and Aleksandar Pejčić submitted together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24885	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister and Madam Minister, I would like to say immediately that after two regular minutes I will speak in the time of the MPs' group. The DSS MPs have submitted seven amendments to this law, which I remind you, there are eight members, or seven effective members, and eight, when it comes into force, in the best interest of trying to make this law, although this is all but a law, in some way repairing that text and not being in front of ourselves and the whole world, and that, of course, on some more adequate ways to solve the problem, which in some media is undoubtedly prosaclysed, slander and everything else. I think all MPs in parliament are absolutely in order to prevent such things. But I can talk about this amendment, I don't know if it's accepted, Mr. Minister, I don't have that information... is the DSS amendment to Article 1 accepted or not accepted? No, I don't. ) It's very interesting, because a completely identical amendment has been submitted by the government, but identical. We asked to delete the deposit provisions, as well as the government, and then we just wrote, and then the other two bets put in order, but technically they put in order. It would be ideal if the government and other amendments had submitted in accordance with the amendments and the DSS, and I believe other parliamentary groups, who had the same idea as us, but unfortunately not. In the debate in principle, we have made it very clear how we feel about this law, but I think we should do it again. It is a law that I have said that unfortunately leaves very ugly traces in the snow, a law which will undoubtedly remain remembered as Bradic's law, a law that will undoubtedly change the first next power urgently, a law that offends common sense and legitimateizes us, both in front of us and in front of the world, in a light in which we should not be legitimate. I also said that I consider the DS responsible for passing this law. I'd like to point out again that there's a constitutional problem here. In fact, I think the law will certainly be the subject of the Constitutional Court by two grounds. I'll try to explain both. First of all, I don't even know what we're discussing. We are discussing the amendments the MPs have tabled to the text of the law that has been sent to them. That text of the law that will be passed has nothing to do with it. The government has submitted six amendments to seven effective members of the law, the eighth is not controversial -- effective then and then. In other words, 90% of the law has been amended and these MPs have denied the constitutional right to submit amendments, because we amendments to the government's amendments could not be submitted. You know, it's one thing when some law has 200 members, so the government, because of some subsequent mind, something, endures one, two, three amendments, it's clear that it's the same law, possibly in some detail corrected. But when you submit six amendments to seven members, then it is clear that it is a completely new text of the law and we were unable to submit amendments to that new text of the law. We couldn't, we'd take it. I will give you specifics of what you would bear. We would like to submit an amendment to new Article 2. I'll explain why. In other words, the constitutional procedure of the law has been violated. It was, if you later realized that the law should look different, you would normally pull it back and change it. Not to say that you try to adopt some of the many objections that not only MPs have raised, but also journalists' associations, respected people, etc. We're all well-intentioned and safe in that matter, this monster of the law, you didn't have to argue. Another problem with the Constitution, which the Constitutional Court will have to declare, are some concrete provisions in the law. You, by submitting the amendment to Article 2, among other things, I will read it again, said the following. "The court will tell the founder within 12 hours of submitting a proposal from the public prosecutor, in accordance with the law, the measure of suspending the action of issuing a public ballot until the judicial end of the procedure under Article 5's position. "To be clear, the trial in all instances, in doing so, the Prosecutor, when the proceedings are being initiated, has yet to be declared whether or not he will charge anyone before the court, and then the court judges, and then the parties can appeal to a higher instance, etc. This procedure may take several years. In all that time, the public record doesn't come out. Let's just assume that he is guilty and that he will be guilty, but you can't close a newspaper, leave 50 or 100 people completely innocent without a job because a trial was initiated by the prosecutor. Running a procedure doesn't mean anything. The aforementioned 1998 law provided for a trial within 24 hours, but envisioned a trial before the Court of Cases. There's no trial here. This is where you're being punished without a trial. What happens if the defendant is found innocent? Will the state pay all the costs that have been incurred by not giving away some newspaper, for example, or by shutting down some station? They won't pay the state, of course, for taxpayers. It's obviously an unconstitutional category. You write the dead cold in the law that you'll close your voice just because some prosecutor has initiated the procedure. What are you doing? On the one hand, you have an unconstitutional and undemocratic law-making procedure, and we don't know why we're even discussing amendments at all, I apologize to all MPs, but everyone has submitted amendments to one text of the law, and in fact there's a whole other text of the law, which we haven't been able to submit. At the time when the debate was opened in principle we received the text of the Government's amendments, then no more submission of amendments and a finished story. I don't understand the proponent's stubbornness to remain on this proposal, and for the last time, please, first of all, DS, as the biggest party of the ruling coalition, to stop being embarrassed and to stop embarrassing the state and withdrawing this law from the procedure. The problem of unconscious journalists and everything we want to banish from our media space, that's fine, but it's not done by law like this. I already said, lay down some rules. There's a general adopted press code. Whoever repeatedly breaks that code can be deprived of his right to deal with the media. There are many ways. You're in the press education business. After all, they exist in the applicable Criminal Law and other laws of a provision where it is forbidden to insult, muddle, slander, and so forth. There are provisions. I'm not a lawyer, but there are a lot of lawyers and people who have been actively involved in legal affairs here, and I think they understand that there are such provisions. So let's solve the problem like that, and no, I'm offended, and now I'm going to shut down everything that comes to mind. However, I don't know if it's worth it, Mr. Bradic, to read you just one sentence which is essentially the reason for this kind of media image in Serbia, when in the media that we tend to call serious, there's no truth about investigative journalism, when the laurels and the insolence of the authorities, that's when those who slander, invent, lie, reverse facts, etc. That's the problem. It's the cause of all this stuff. Not some newspaper is read there, not to mention names, because it's read to the people, but because in some serious newspapers it can't read anything but cadeting to the authorities. That's the problem. To be honest, Mr. Bradich, I don't expect you to understand me too much. However, on your final word, I learned something new. I've learned to be a director, theatre or movie director, it means to introduce order. I'm very interested in what your statement thinks about your colleagues who, like me, have been wronged to be a director means to be an artist creative, creatively interpreting an act of theater or a movie scenario. But, well, all in all, my last, really last request, is made, I repeat, by the DS, which I consider absolutely the most responsible for this law: withdraw this law, let us sit down, to write a civilized law that will solve the problem, and you withdraw this miracle, because this is completely, absolutely terrible. That's the DSS's attitude. We will explain all our other amendments, although I repeat, the question is how much does it all make sense together, because we are discussing amendments to a text that practically no longer exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24886	From the time available to you as an authorised representative, you have used 12 minutes. So there are three minutes left for you as an authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? Milos Aligrudić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24887	I'll use time at the expense of the parliamentary group, try not to be too long in this case. This Article 1 which is spoken of was a key member. In order for the government to deceive the MPs and the public, it proposed to delete those provisions, later with its amendment which had not yet become an integral part of the text but certainly will, by abolishing the monetary censorship necessary for the maintenance of the public vote, when it comes to the money that the founder has in his account. It was, of course, a scandalous provision, but it seems to me that there was one tactical game, to make an ultrascandalous provision, which would later be derrogated by the proposed amendment, to get the impression that the thing was fixed, that the law was tempered and that after that it could normally approach the vote and that, my God, a regulation that is in line with I don't know what, but certainly with democratic principles and rules of a regulated democratic state was not. In this particular case, you have deliberately forgotten, Mr. Minister, that the subject of the protection of this law, which is a violation of your personality, you went first, can and must be achieved in society by other means. Since it did not occur to you that your colleagues from the Justice Department may be distracted by the Code of Criminal Procedure or by the Criminal Law to amend the provision, in the Criminal Code, above all, which speak about how to conduct a criminal procedure, when it comes to insult, slander, or injustice, by means of a public note to a person. Why didn't you take the change that the procedure was urgent? The urgency of the procedure would remove the problems. Even the level of penalties threatened in countries, whether it's criminal law or criminal law, is not determined to reduce the rate of crime or the number of offences committed, but the certainty that someone will answer. It's the only thing in criminal law relevant or in criminal law. You've provided Draconian criminal sanctions here for those who break your rules, and your basic rule is - to keep quiet about me as a politician, you can't say anything about me as a politician, if you say one thing, you'll get the scariest. After someone breaks that golden rule of yours, they'll get a dragon penalty they can't afford to pay. Next, you're chasing the concept of the founder of the office. The founder of a note doesn't have to have anything to do with the editorial policy of his own voice, nothing. Even if it has something to do with it, even if you and I know that someone who's the founder of someone's money can influence editorial policy, and by the rule of law, he doesn't have anything to do with it. Your every provision in this law which determines the punishment of the founder for the regulation of the public record is meaningless, legally impossible and unconstitutional. You all know that very well. But you made the law to protect for example, Mladjan Dinkic. Because Mladjan Dinkic has been "tearing" "Kurr" for months. Is that okay? Probably not. But Mladjan Dinkic is at the disposal of other funds in this country, not that, through general norms, half the texts in Serbia, because, my God, he has a sense of injury. Then the public prosecutor will attack a newspaper, on a proposal from a person, who, for example, raped several minors, so when a newspaper publishes the title "monstrom", and before that man is not legally convicted of the work he did, goodbye, the paper can be extinguished. How can a society take a stand on some issues? If that attitude doesn't make people one word at a time? If one day he doesn't use a little stronger public word than the one that Young Dinkic's belly is used to? You know, I don't know what words further to convince you that what you've done is not only not correct, but it's deeply contrary to all the democratic rules of conduct in society. The best way to solve this problem is to withdraw this bill. So that you don't embarrass yourself, that you don't put us all in an awkward situation. Believe me, those who are allegedly behind this bill and belong to the journalistic world, that when the first of them faces the consequences of quitting or losing a job in the company or company they work in, because you liquidated it, they will immediately change their minds about you, unless you think you hire them all at the Ministry of Information and increase the number of employees in the state administration by giving them bread to eat. That's certainly not the way to work. Please withdraw this bill, so you would do your people and your country a favor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24888	The time spent is five minutes and 30 seconds, so the time available to the parliamentary group is 19 minutes and 40 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Đura Muchenski. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Đura Muchenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24889	On the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Information, I tabled the following amendment: Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Information, following the introductory wording, in paragraph 1, the word "public message issue" is replaced by a comma and the words "unless the Republic of Serbia, autonomous province or units of local self-government are transferred in general or partly founding rights over institutions that carry out public information exclusively in the language of the national minority", and in paragraph 2 after the word "disputed" the point is replaced by "unless the Republic of Serbia, autonomous province or units of local self-government are transferred to a whole or part of the founding rights of institutions that carry out public information solely in the language of a national minority". The adoption of this amendment would regulate the possibility of transferring founding rights over these institutions to national councils and thus allow the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous Province Assembly or the units of local self-government to transfer in general or in part the founding rights to institutions engaged in public information in the language of the national minority. In this way, the two laws that are in the procedure at this session, the law on national councils of national minorities, which provided for such possibility, and the public information law, would be harmonised.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24890	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic, or is it not? No, you just want to use the MP's time. Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24891	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order not to overuse the time of the parliamentary group and in the absence of my colleague, Mileta Poscurica, I would like to point out that the amendment provided for in Article 2 is now Article 14a, which is scheduled to be deleted. I would like to point out that what is in the proposal of Article 14a, that the founder of the public vote cannot, in any other way, transfer the right to a public vote or the right to issue a public note, as well as the contract or other legal transactions which have a transfer for the case, or the second availability of the rights referred to in Article 1, is nothing, otherwise, known in parallel-law and that the purpose of the adoption of such a provision does not really exist. After the punishments provided for by the article. 92a, 92b, 92v and 92g do not require such clauses, because indeed after these heights no one can deal with founding activity, or indeed after one financial bankruptcy, which you have provided for these provisions, it is impossible to continue to deal with public messages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24892	The time used by the parliamentary group is one minute and 18 seconds. Anyone else want a word? The Progressive Group of Serbia has 18 minutes and 22 seconds left. National MP Gojko Radic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24893	Within the time of the parliamentary group, and as deputy president of the parliamentary group... The proposal for a text in Article 14a defines the rights of transfer of founding rights and Article 83(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia... [[You can't hear, the microphone isn't on]] [[unheard]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24894	Please register again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24895	It's an announced time that we won't be on the air. I'm not surprised, I'm not distracted by this decomposition here, but given yesterday's incident with time theft, nothing really surprises me anymore, and what you'll be surprised at, we'll already have a chance to see. I'm just curious about the fate of the time I was talking about, and my colleagues didn't hear me. Will the world fail if you let me use it as a new time, or will I be at the expense of the time of authority?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24896	The world will never fail. (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the post: Because of me he won't, but because of you maybe.) The time you had before technical problems was two minutes and 18 seconds. You guys just keep going. If colleagues see a different time, of course I'll agree with your colleagues, you're interrupted, and of course you have the right to extra time because of the difficulties with the technique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24897	The fact that there's no transmission at the moment, I expect a delayed transmission to be made. The purpose of our engagement and speaking in this congregation is precisely to let the citizens hear what they have no opportunity to hear elsewhere. How difficult this will be by adopting this law, I cannot possibly assume responsibly because I do not have the text that the Government finally gave us here as a proposal, because it has, to one extent and several members, essentially amended the amendments to the Government as a proposing. I also do not know what has been adopted or rejected from the amendments of the other MPs. So I apologize in advance to the citizens for perhaps talking about something that may not be the subject of the law, and it's not my fault, it's evidence of seriousness. The government's inconclusiveness as a proposer. All in all, Article 14 treats the transfer of rights, the founding rights of public messages to other persons. The amendment submitted by my colleague Gojko Radic concerns enrolment in the register of public ballots. To inform the public, you have installed my colleague Gojko Radic's amendment in your amendment No. 1, and that in paragraph 2, where you later "provided that a public ballot could be set up by a domestic legal person" added a sentence "that a public note should be entered in the register of public ballots". You have failed to resolve this by law, and I can say that this amendment has been partially adopted. But what's unimaginable is that I really need to repeat it because of my colleagues and technical problems in the transmission, so don't mind me saying it again, but it's unimaginable that you, in the draft text of the law, are giving an unconstitutional provision. Article 83(1) The constitution says that "the ban on the right to dispose of economic activity cannot be limited by anything". You're breaking it, you're prohibiting the transfer of founding rights to public texts. The only exception that the Constitution provides for is attitude 2, where it is said -- that entrepreneurship can only be limited by law to protect human health, environment and natural wealth and for the safety of the Republic of Serbia. In which of these possible and constitutionally allowed cases, Mr Dinkic, or those of you who represent him here, has been identified, I would very much like to have someone explain it to me. Is the health of a man who considers himself to be a human being threatened, so it is subdued by “people ”? Is what its environment is and is the problem with the perception of newspaper texts, is it an endangered environment? What are these natural treasures, is Mr Dinkic an unrenewable natural wealth that we must safeguard at all costs of such a threat to human rights or is his personal security identified with the security of the Republic of Serbia? This may look like ingenuity, but this is not too sad, this is illegal. So, in international contexts, we said, if international law and Resolution 1244 is not the last wall of defense, and what is left of us? If there is no God, everything is lawful, Dostoyevsky would say to you, Mr. Minister and whoever ordered this law and refused to give us an opinion on the amendments, refused to come to represent and defend it, I say – if the Constitution is not that last wall of defense in this country, what more can we trust? If you, as a Government, who, by the hand of an oath and with a loudly spoken text of the oath, are obliged to honor the Constitution, violate what you expect from the citizens – that, as in Iraq, you start to light up and shut down electrical devices and cause the fall of the electrical system, that you have such a resourceful touch to call you to reality, because I will not be ironic and to say – that they call you to your senses. The last appeal – withdraw the bill that we don't know what it looks like, because everything you want to hide with it will come to light on who's the author of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24898	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does he want a word? Yeah. MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when looking at this Article 2 or 14v, I have to ask a question or at least get an impression – is this the company law, is it the National Bank law, is it the law on payment traffic, is it the law on liquidation and bankruptcy? By the way, I would like to propose to the chairman and assistant secretary, since it has been two hours since we received the government's opinion, and it has not been shared with the MPs because they are being printed – to hire some of the printed media, such as "Kurr", "Justice" or some other printed message to make us the Government's opinion on our amendments. Apparently, our professional services aren't capable of it. When this law comes into force, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the situation in the media will be much worse than when Dusan Mihajlovic told reporters – why you do investigative journalism, he will prepare everything for you, write and sign Vladimir Popovic called Beba. That's how we can see it from just a few facts. All electronic media, and that's where I think about radio and television, is controlled by the Broadcasting Agency. So whatever pops out of the government pattern of the Republic of Serbia or an individual will be welcomed by the Broadcasting Agency, so that such media are threatened with either the withdrawal of a license or the withdrawal of a frequency, however, and the result is the shutting down of the media. What else is available? The rest are free to print the media for as long as possible. Some are under the control of various financial lobbies that support the government of the Republic of Serbia, some are trying to be independent and criticise the work of the government or its individuals. Now the question arises why is one of these laws put in the assembly procedure – when its time is not, in July? All for one man. The creator of this law is Mladjan Dinkic. You can tell from the very text of the law. In Article 14v, it is seen that this can only be written by an illiterate man, and I consider the Young One to be so. The organisation which manages the register of public messages once a month, at the request of the Republic of the Authority responsible for public information affairs, shall provide a copy of the register. Is it once a month or on request? Mr. Minister, learn how to write laws, don't leave it to Junior anymore. Now, look at this, this is a classic Mladjin signature -- an organisation that conducts a mandatory collection procedure, which has proved itself particularly capable, especially when he was a finance minister, so the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, how he carried out the forced payment, that even the tax solution has more weight than the court's decision. In the following position, he says, "If the founder of the public reads the account in the blockade for more than 90 days, he must stop printing." Mr. Minister, what about the law on liquidation and bankruptcy? How can you be contrary to this law with an existing one? If he doesn't stop, now we're going to Criminal Law, etc.? The question now arises whether all this is because some print media wrote about the stocking and the National Bank of Serbia on October 5th, or because the media wrote about the flag, or because the media wrote about the Mine-topic Basen Bor, or because the media wrote about Sartide, or because they wrote about passports, or because they wrote about ID cards and affairs made by Mladjan Dinkic along with Governor Jelasic? What else is available? Only the National Assembly, but, as you can see, our transmission has now been lifted, no more Parliament, and his word, the speaker, doesn't exist in the right sense of words, you'll let us go at night, because you control RTS, and you can't have the director of RTS saying -- I won't pass it on to the Assembly, because it's being appointed by the Government, and we choose the Government. What is it, the acting officer? What's the problem? Will the new Rules of Procedure, which warn us of the fall, introduce the same criminal provisions if someone says so – his Majesty Mladjan Dinkic? Will the MPs pay such fines? Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, especially you from the DS, are the only ones holding on to Mladjan Dinkic, no matter what you hold on to him, the better chance we'll wipe you out in the next election. After these elections, some parties will move into opposition, some in history, some will go to prison, and in Pozharevec I will be very happy to wait after these elections by Mladjan Dinkic and for a long time, the Firefighters will guard him and let him go nowhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24900	It's been used four minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? Time at the disposal of the parliamentary group Forwards Serbia is 14 minutes and 20 seconds. A Member of the 2nd Amendment was sent by a Member of Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Jovan Palalić, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudić, Milos Radulović, Milica Vojić-Marković, Zoran Nikolic, Vladimir Milentijevic, Zeljko Tomic, Donka Banović, Milan Lapčević and Zoran Shami together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24901	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Unfortunately, Article 2 now looks very different. That the text of the law said what it said in Amendment 2. Government, what I've already read, I'm sure they'd put the amendment to it. Unfortunately, we're not allowed to handle it. However, our amendment that we have submitted concerns fortunately with something left in the text, but, among other things, we are asking that they be deleted in Article 14v of Paragraph 5. Six and seven. I'll just read you Section 5. Be careful what he says: "If the founder of the public message is an account in a blockade for more than 90 days in the previous year of business, the founder of the public vote is required to suspend the public ballot's activity without delay. '"It means it stops working. You know what, if you wrote a provision like this that actually applies to anyone who's been in a blockade for more than 90 days shutting down a company, so in Serbia, I know how much the company would work. I'm afraid very little. Secondly, how do you interpret putting the owners of public ballots in a different position than other economic operators, when it comes to financial foreign affairs? Do you close the self-service chain if the boss doesn't pay them six months? I don't want to mention names. Of course, no, on the contrary, just let it work. It is absolutely pointless to introduce a ban on work because someone has been blocked for more than 90 days. And it's unconstitutional to you, and it's going to fall on you in the Constitutional Court. In the end, we will come up with a list of a dozen unconstitutional things in this law, in this law of seven members. Once again, I ask you to withdraw the law. If I may, I'd suggest the chairman, given that we're not having another transmission until 1440 hours, until they're finished, I don't know what game, it might be a good idea to take a break at this point. I spoke without transmission, but my next colleagues don't have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24902	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24903	I'm already used to not being in direct transmission, so we're ready for all the facts. So, what does this amendment foresee? In fact, this amendment suggests that a long-term blockade of accounts is present in Serbia because every other company in Serbia is practically in a blockade, and the state is one of the biggest debtors. So why put media owners in an uninvited position when they have no way to make a profit payment? Of course, there are two categories of media, media that are not fully or directly controlled by the authorities and are in a situation of financial blockade, and there are so-called. privileged media, whose closeness to the regime allows them to bill everything immediately. This is a kind of discrimination of the media, especially in the period when there is a serious crisis in Serbia, and the consequence is definitely financial destruction of certain media, especially if they are apriors defined as inadequate, so the category of censorship and similarity is back again or even critical of the current government. This kind of discrimination leads to the threat of the basic human rights of employees in the media, the right to work, and the loss of basic sources of income from their families.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24904	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Shami, Radojko Obradović, Slobodan Samardžić, Jovan Palalić, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Radulović, Milica Vojić-Marković, Milos Aligrudić, Zoran Nikolic, Vladimir Milentijevic, Željko Tomić, Donka Banović and Milan Lapčević submitted together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24905	By the way, in addition to the last article of the 8th law that defines when it comes into force, this Article 3 is the only member to whom the government has not submitted the amendment. Right now, let me say that this is the only member who seems too high and defines so far the foggy obligation of a distributor in relation to the publisher of the public ballots. The Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed adding a new position 7 to this article, that the appeal of the court's decision, which obliges a public voice distribution person to carry out the distribution of public ballots, is not delayed. In a way, we're trying to get these into the order of distributors. It is common knowledge that press distributors generally owe money to publishers for a very long time and one of the reasons why newspapers are very often in a blockade is an unregulated relationship related to distributors.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24906	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Jorgovana Tabakovic has tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of the 3a. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24907	First of all, at this point, until we have yet to get this printed opinion that the amendments accept and that refuse, I am trying to understand the reasons why Mladjan Dinkic started this procedure and the government agreed to it. Since Article 149 states that both the Government and the Committees are obliged to inform us before the session on the amendments under consideration and on which they have been rejected, which they have accepted, the responsibility of the Assembly is if you say they have been delivered, but that they are being printed. So, we're left with a procedure to initiate the responsibility of the Secretary of the Assembly and the professional services, who fail to print it out, if that's a technical matter. But I am convinced that Mr Dinkic has not decided to propose to the government a regulation to close the media that write about him various things, some and many I do not justify, but those involved in working in the government and abuses can certainly be subject to the writing of the press, but respected by my colleagues and the chairman, to pass the law to the Assembly for consideration, and then not to allow the respect of the procedure, that means public exposure to humiliation and mockery to the entire assembly and MPs. I'll give you one explanation. With this Mladjan Dinkic does not humiliate the opposition, but the government and ruling MPs who agree to this, and let the citizens imagine what the answer to the question is - what did Mladjan Dinkic deserve to protect Mr Dinkic in this way? When it comes to Article 37 of the basic law, 90% of the text of these amendments and additions is actually about a member of the 37th, whose amendment I propose. In the basic text of Article 37, it defines that no one in the public opinion shall designate the perpetrator of any criminal offence, or declare guilty and responsible before the court or the competent authority of anyone. My dear gentlemen, as Mr Dinkic asks for punishment under this Article 37, you know what it means, that if someone shows a recording of a beating on the street or in a sports competition and lists the names of people who got into a fight or fans who participated, and it publishes some medium, it can lead to these dragonic, unimaginable and illegal penalties. I have proposed to the amendment that this Article 3, which will be redefined in fact by Article 37, reads as follows - in a public note no one should mark the perpetrator of any criminal act, unless the marking is based on information obtained from the competent authorities, means the MUP, investigative procedures, publicly known circumstances, credible documentation, photographic, audio or visual video or other credible evidence, and the court knows that it appreciates, on the basis of which there is a suspicion that the work has been carried out by a person, and the information contains evidence on which the information is based and is not made, please, what the Young One most disturbs, it bothers anyone with the right, in a manner that offends the person marked. So, if it is specified that the competent authority has provided information, that it has been documented by a credible video, photo material, audio or any other evidence, so there is a suspicion, it may be published, because based on evidence and action, the competent authorities and initiate proceedings for the punishment of the offence-criminal or any other offence. A minimum that can preserve the dignity of this government is the adoption of Article 37. Maybe the government has adopted this amendment of mine, and I'm fighting for it as if it wasn't adopted, I don't know. Have you, Mrs. Komic, since you have more privileges than we normally do, read, remembered what the government has given to my member? You don't know. I'll also have to give the explanation extra. So the provision of Article 37. The Public Information Act shall contain an unconditional ban on the designation of any person or perpetrator of any criminal offence, not only a criminal, unless it has previously been done by a judicial decision. So unconditional labelling and unconditional ban are simply not acceptable, it goes into that definition of freedom that I'm allowed to do anything that doesn't endanger other people's freedom. Such an unconditional ban threatens the unequivocal freedom of the media. The literal application of this provision would make it completely impossible for us to inform society and citizens about socially harmful phenomena, meaning informing them at all about the conduct of the proceedings. There is no more information until a judicial verdict, no one is allowed to publish any conduct procedure in connection with a criminal, criminal, or any other part of it. The very term "punishment" is very broad and, I said, includes even sports violations. I said that literal application would lead to those who change congregation transfers, I mean, the Tur de Frances and sports competitions, literally not having the material to broadcast, so maybe you're working for us. It means that Tijanic does not broadcast sports transmissions because someone can fight on them, so that if anyone gets into a fight, it must not be published, shown in electronic or printed media. Maybe that's why you're passing this law. The release of a suspect's arrest for a criminal offence under this formulation literally has the same character. The media is completely disabled, if we adopt Article 37 in this way, and we sanction it, to inform about possible, where there is doubt, credible evidence, abuses of public officials, and criticism of their work is disabled. And you have to admit, Mr. Minister, that in a civilized world, it's a basic task of the media. Or that's what NGOs are supposed to do, but I don't know how they're going to publish it, where they're going to print it. What sector gets the part of control already? No, you control completely shut down. The Constitution and international conventions guarantee the right to information. How will this information be achieved if the right to publish information about possible perpetrators of criminal acts and the work of the law enforcement authorities is excluded? I'd like you to answer that question. The protection against the indeceivable, and we've had this often, and the malicious marking of a particular person that has done something must certainly exist. No one's questioning that. There must also be protection of this species and it must be established, but it is – Mr. Minister, not your matter, because they had to tell you – and established and guaranteed by the Criminal Code. Why didn't they tell you from the Legislative Secretariat? You know there's a crime of defamation involving exactly these situations. Given the necessity, the right of citizens to inform, especially about dangerous behaviours and violations of the law, we find that only the conditions under which the publication of information is allowed to be identified as an perpetrator or as a possible perpetrator of the act must be established. The existence of evidence of suspicion, as we say in this amendment, is sufficient to establish the basis for taking a measure of prosecution, please, Minister, to listen, as is detention, and to launch an investigation and detention. We believe, if that is enough to initiate this procedure, that this is sufficient ground and to publish information about the possible perpetrator and the possible work, and not as you say, only by judicial judgment. I believe that if you do not adopt any amendments, unless we cast out unconstitutional and illegal provisions, that the amendment to Article 37 may still save your honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24908	The time at your disposal as an authorised representative and deputy president of the parliamentary group has been used. Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 4th Amendment in the same text were submitted by the MPs Jorgenka Tabakovic and Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. Do you want to follow this amendment? I've got it on the panel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24909	The amendment to Article 4, whose erasure I propose, treats illegal, and according to the Law on Infractions and Business Crimes, Minister, you determine the totally illegal height of punishment. There can't be a 20-time sentence allowed by law to be a measure of the importance of the minister who proposes this. It is unacceptable for you to come to the National Assembly with such certain penalties. What I particularly want to point out is that the way you measured the fines, the precision that you determined the value of the circulation, the value of the sold advertising space that should be the basis for determining the penalties to be as difficult and to lead to the closure of the media, is something that is unforgivable at this point. So 25% of the privatisation contracts are officially terminated. How many irregularities have not yet been identified, and there has to be an end to the privatisation contract, which is the reason for the change in the Law on Privatisation and the application of criminal measures, which has caused a large number of citizens to suffer and which, as a society, we do not have an economic stagnation, but we have a decline in the social product, the growth of the unemployed and an increase in the number of the poor. Instead of your criminal policies, your generosity, your creativity, and your good intentions, you establish a stricter criminal policy for the violation of the Privatisation Act that changes our economic structure, you spend your precision and your skills in fact on the complete closure of the media that could write about what is the subject of the bad law and the misuse of the privatisation law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24910	Anyone else want a word? The government has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudić, Jovan Palalić, Milos Radulović, Zoran Shami, Željko Tomic, Milica Vojić-Marković, Milica Radović, Vladimir Milentijević and Aleksandar Pejčić put together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Željko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24911	As you saw in Article 4, members of 92a, 92b and 92v are deleted and we suggest that these dragon sentences be reduced. In the meantime, the government has tabled an amendment that leaves a lot of large figures, and I would ask the minister to at least say in his final statement where else in Europe there is such a model of law, such a solution in one of the laws concerning information. I have every right to believe that this law, among other things because of this article, is non-democratic, both non-European and discriminatory. I am asked to be referred to in the parallel law of any law in this area that punishes the founders and the media at all. I'm taking the opportunity to point out that after just seven days of passing this public information law, the government itself has submitted amendments, making it evident and admitting that such a bill is simply not good. I do not believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has succumbed to the pressure of thinking to the public who cares about this law, who has very interestingly joined together, or united those who think politically very differently and who have condemned this law. Today, in the press, we were able to see a statement from the president of the working group on making media laws at the Ministry of Culture, at your ministry, which has not been consulted on this law for a single time. That's unacceptable, and that, Mr. Minister, remains a disgrace to you, for you have signed a solution that formed this task force that deals with media laws, and it has not even wondered and intervened on this law. This is what Mr. Veljanovski revealed in the press today and thus gave you another one of the many yellow charts that you have experienced these days from the professional public. I hope if this law passes, God forbid, in the Serbian Parliament, that President Tadic will not sign it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24912	Before we move on to the debate in detail on the next amendment, I am informing the National Assembly on the basis of Article 85(5) that we will be working today after 1800 hours, and the debate on the law that is on the agenda at that time. In view of the questions asked for a break, and if we'd started two hours late, we'd be working until further notice. People's MPs are entitled to one hour, which is according to rule 14 to 15. Since we've had two hours off today, respecting and applying Article 27, if necessary, there will be a break, of course. The 4th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by the MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24913	Since it is about amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Information Act, I would like to inform you that we have just received the opinion of the Government. Maybe if we had this government opinion before, we could know what it was really about. For example, this amendment to Article 4. The draft law which I have submitted in fact deletes the members 92 and 92b, and Article 92g of Section 3 is amended and reads - if the commercial offence referred to in Article 1 of this Article is committed through the publication of information in an electronic public note within the framework of the information programme, the founder of the public vote will be fined by a fine corresponding to the value of the space sold in the public ballot over a period of three days, counting from the date on which the information is published and paragraph 4 is deleted. An explanation of why this amendment could not be adopted was not to be accepted for the reason why the Government submitted an amendment to Article 4. It's a bill of law. I definitely don't think it was necessary and that there were no reasons for putting this law under discussion in an urgent procedure, because I don't know what are the adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, except that I know that there are also adverse consequences for the life, health and normal functionality of our MPs when we see this kind of explanation, when we attend this procedure and when the government is practically trying to discredit, and it certainly seems to end the Serbian Parliament. Only with a five-hour delay do we know what the government had to say. Wasn't the government able to do something that was much more honorable, but which I suppose would lead to a certain narcissistic violation of the bill's legislator, which is that this law comes back to work and puts it back on human exposure somewhere rather than entering a kind of trade and calculations with the media. What exists as some kind of speculation is that this procedure has been implemented because there have been attempts to somehow glean most of the importance of voting this law. Obviously, in the context of these shops and calculations with the number of people who will not be in the O.R. during the vote on this law, there has been such a delay. First, we didn't know what the government's opinion was, then the government's rapporteur showed up, at least on paper, the person who's a youth and sports minister. In a magical way, however, the Minister of Culture and Information appeared, after five hours we got the government's opinion and found out that everything we did, these amendments that we literally worked day and night, very hard and studioly, don't make any sense because they're being shot down with only one sentence, because the government has submitted an amendment to Article 4. It's a bill of law. I'm afraid of that amendment that will be passed on to this government by the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24914	Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Dusan Maric has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24915	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment recommending the removal of a new member of 92. The government rejected this amendment, with a reason that it itself submitted a fully identical amendment. The thing is, I think it's completely absurd. The MP submitted an amendment to the government, the government copied the amendment, and then adopted it as its amendment. If two identical amendments have been submitted, then in my opinion there are only two honorable solutions, one solution is that the government accepts both amendments, as a single amendment, and another solution to accept that amendment that was submitted earlier, it is in this case my amendment. It would be too much to say that there is no public information system in Serbia. However, what has been happening in Serbia for the past few years in this area could rather be called a public disinformation system. We have three kinds of media in Serbia. The media that entertain and fool the people, the media that deceives the people and the media who do both. Instead of informing citizens, media are used to achieve certain interests, often criminal interests of media owners, economic and political centres of power that control these media, primarily for accounting with business competition and with political indivisibles. Countless are examples of media abuse for political and mafia purposes, and one of the best examples, a school example, is the attitude of the media to the SRS. In the last ten months, this relationship has been seen either in total Satanization or in total ignoring. If there are no elements in SRS officials' statements and SRS activities that can be used to defecate the SRS or these officials, then those statements and these activities are completely ignored, as if there were none. What the SRS has survived from September to today is a classic school example of a political lynch, which can be born with a political link, which after 5 October 2000. the years were exposed to the SRS and the SPS. Reporting on SRS activities is in fact a deal with the Serbian Radical Party as the strongest national and opposition party. The bill was dictated by the united trinity, the Western regime and the domestic tycoons. A high price was paid by this parliament due to the SRS's misdemeanour. Serbia is the only country in Europe that has campaigned against its own parliament for several months in public. For months, this high house and the MPs were dragged through media mud and treated as the greatest society of evil, the culprit for all the troubles in Serbia. On the one hand, the campaign responded because it fits into the SRS destruction project, and on the other hand, the degradation of parliament sought to reduce the weight of words spoken from the assembly pay phone. For what? Because the assembly speaker remained the only place the Serbian citizens could hear the truth, hear facts about thief's privatisations, hear facts about robberies worth hundreds of millions of euros, astronomical salaries of members of boards of public enterprises from ruling parties and the like. Since the SRS was the one who launched, far the most, these unpleasant issues by regime, west and tycoon, the campaign against the National Assembly has actually become an integral part of their SRS reckoning. It's interesting that none of these eager defenders of objective information we've been hearing in the last month in ten months have said a single word of condemnation to this campaign, this link against the SRS. In order for such things not to happen, Serbia needs a good law on public information. However, Serbia will not get the law with proposed amendments to the existing law we are discussing today. The proposal we have ahead of us and the debate we are having is not the result of efforts by the present minister and government to give Serbia objective information, that the media and journalists get better working conditions, but rather the result of inter-countations of media-political and mafia cartels in Serbia, above all in Belgrade, who have been very close, working together for years, misleading Serbian citizens and making good money, but are now fighting over the division of media space, over the division of prey. As a result of these calculations, Serbia has been listening and reading testimonies that increasingly resemble the novels of Agatha Christi and these Latin American soap operans. I quote, approximately, Raja promised Chadi 500 million, Pera Ziki for a year printed the paper for free, this one promised him that all of it would be paid by the state while Perini took over in Serbia, Janko turned Manojl for 800 million, Gorica signed three bills at 400 million, Gaja swindled the 600 million tax. As a consequence of these accounts, we have this concise proposal to amend the Law on Public Information and a public debate in which none of the participants are concerned anymore about the general interest, the information, the rights of journalists, but exclusively about their own personal, party and mafia interests. To finish, neither are those who have proposed this law, but neither are those who attack it the most. You don't know who's worse and neither of them deserve the support of the SRS. However, due to the general social interest, in order to protect journalists, in order to protect journalism as a profession, in order to protect citizens who need accurate and objective information and protect journalists who need to be told that information, the SRS will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24916	From the time available to the parliamentary group, four minutes and 30 seconds have been used. Anyone else want a word? National MP Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24917	The reason for this address, and precisely for the amendment to Article 4, submitted by MP Dusan Maric, was largely contained in the fact that in his defence of the amendment, apart from the political attitude characteristic of the parliamentary group he belonged to, there was also a certain amount of expertise in interpreting the problem. I think in such an atmosphere, then certain rational messages can also be sent, which, in fact, relate to the largest number of amendments and when I talk about the position of the parliamentary group that I represent. Most often, the term "dracon punishment" is manipulated, with the desire to undo the amendments to the unsecured ambition of the legislator to insist on that element of the standard that is truly called sanctions and which is one of the motives for the social justification of the Amendments and Supplements Bill. Manipulations on this subject appear, for example, in complaints that such a bill is inappropriate, it is said that there is no example of good practice in the civilized world that regulates freedom of information in this spirit. That's just not true. Tabloids exist everywhere in a civilized world. They, as a rule, pay the highest penalty in the civilized world. It is even a rule of press work in the tabloids to include in the planning of the project the levels of penalties to be counted against in advance, but if the project to be entered by an increase in the circulation should secure profits, then, despite the threatened punishment, it comes true. What's happening with us is actually quite the opposite of practice so-called. The boulevard yellow press in the civilized world. There's a yellow print of defamation or an official's oppension, and, possibly, the public's deception. However, we have no information, even if it is false, but most often the most difficult personal insults and disqualifications of the most difficult species appear as a substitute for information. For example, I'd like you to establish a way to control the truthfulness, say, of information that's been expressed in a big title under the photograph of Mayor Kragujevac and the president of my party "Together for the Shumadi" - "Bahata bastard". It would be very interesting to open a debate about whether it's true information or a tending power. In fact, it is impossible to establish the intention to transmit information. An even more drastic example, following the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Protocol, a photograph of the president of the state in the society of top European officials, who are toasting the team, was accompanied by the title in one newspaper, "The Pigs Are Glad". Such a title is not possible in any civilized country of Europe in a commentary by the top representatives of the state. This is not about the public being deceived by such information, but about blocking the process of public building in society. To be even more specific, it is one thing when the issue of truth is what the media conveys, and it is quite another when there is no question of truth, but when there is a tendency of forgiveness, the degradation of the very public to which the media address it. To be clear, and that's what Mr. Maric was saying very precisely at first, the media is not just the mere data transferors. They, because they inform, select, thus loading valuable assumptions into the messages they broadcast, are therefore a factor in public building. Such a mass phenomenon, called ugly words of tabloidisation, speaks of the social danger contained in the civil public degradation process, about the process of building anti-civilism in the public. That's what this bill opposes, and that's why sanctions can't be called dragons, and that's the point. It's a bit more difficult than a parliamentary discussion is qualified to go into it, because it's really professional. But dragon punishment actually concerns the theory of punishment. According to, let's say, perhaps the most fundamental, most solid theory of punishment, the principle of everyone's punishment, if it should allow for the presence of justice, is "lex Talionis", however well he was then quantified, sublimated in measuring the penalty. The essence of the punishment is that they should be given to him who committed the crime, therefore, and only because he committed a crime by those who were empowered, qualified to do so. The Dragon Penalty rests on the abolition of this concept and the balance between offense and sanctions. That is why it is totally unwarranted to say that there is no other way in the draft law that dragon punishment, and in fact for the sake of concealing political interest, that any sanctioning the formation of an anti-civil public in Serbia is being prevented and for the purpose of achieving partial political goals. What are the political goals of those who are troubled by the civil public, who need a tyrannical threat to the public not to think by chance that they could break away in the direction of free civil elections. It is actually a tabloid message according to the headlines mentioned earlier that the public of Serbia must not think otherwise that it is understood except as a barrister, except as in the den. Because that is the only way that it corresponds to the unprincipled will of the master who would end any call of civil in the development of democracy in Serbia and that would end any organised possibility of society getting in the way of such public degradation, declaring such intentions by dragon punishment. That's just not true. I thank my colleague, Maric, for he, apart from the political part, said the same thing in this theoretical part of the interpretation of his attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24918	National MP Sasa Milenic has used eight minutes since the time of the authorised representative. There are six minutes and 30 seconds left. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24919	Chairman, may I also use group time per amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24920	Do you want a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24921	Yeah, I want to answer this. Mr. Milenić spoke one way, and I spoke another way about the dragon's sentences. Mr. Milenic, you, I hope subconsciously, have tried to deceive the public. The fact is that your party's high-ranking official is on the direct question -- why this system punishes the dragons, we agree, unfortunately the dragons, did not settle through amendments to the Criminal Law or someone in the area of the finance minister, or the IRS, he said in the press -- well, we didn't do it because we didn't control those ministries. We control the Ministry of Culture, so we go this way. What are you going to do with the more embarrassing and embarrassing? Where does this exist in Europe and the world? So your feud is the Ministry of Culture, so through it we're going to use this kind of dragon punishment to apply it to journalists, editors, media owners. There's a rabbit in that bush. Just be honest and confirm it and you, as your senior party official, Mr. Vlajko Senić, who said it in the press.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24922	The word has the People's MP Dusan Maric, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24923	First, I am taking the opportunity to thank my colleague Milenic for the specific commendations he has given. However, in order to avoid confusion, I must say for the sake of the citizens of Serbia that in my discussion I did not use any expressions of dragon punishment, I did not use expressions - inappropriate, I did not talk about fines. I didn't do it on purpose for the reason I believe that fines, which the truth most pollutes in the last month as far as the Polish public information law is concerned, are not the essence of the problem. The main issue is the need for Serbia to finally get a quality public information law that will ensure that Serbia gets objective public information. I don't think she'll have any of them after this bill's been passed. As I was saying, in this bill there are two large, folkly speaking, holes. No journalists and no citizens. In this bill of law, they are treated, again folksally, as the last hole in the play. In the centre are the interests of large-scale capital, media owners, mostly domestic tycoons, and political parties, mostly the ruling political parties who control them, are at the centre. Since counterpart Milenic agrees with most of my views, then I have nothing left to do but thank him once more and to invite him and members of the parliamentary club of his political party to vote in the day for the vote against the adoption of this poor bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24924	Replica? The word has a folk MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24925	No, I'll use the time of the parliamentary group, I have nothing to replicate, but I'll say it as soon as possible next. Unlike a number of MPs, I am pleased to listen to fellow Sasa Milenic. You sound nice when you talk. This topic doesn't deserve to be taught the origin of words - dragon sentences, and what it really means. This is a much more serious subject. This means that the penalty that has been imposed under this proposal for amendments to the law is not within the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. From seven to ten times the penalty for penalties provided for in violations and economic offences of all kinds, all damages, of all nature. You must agree with me because you come from Kragujevac, a city where you know well what the word hunger and hard life means. Should it have been delayed, counterpart Sasa Milenic, in the application of stricter legal penalties for infringements of the privatisation contract, where the property that is intended to be purchased is not deliberately shown, the so-called system. tunneling, where a foreign foreign foreign foreign exchange inflow surfaces when a new owner arrives, where thousands of squares of "Comgrapa" e.g. don't appear. when privatization is made, and later when undiscovered connections and the reporting system is very specific, the owner comes, buys it, destroys the state, social and someone's fully defined assets, including small shareholders, and only when there is no more where to compensate for the damage done, reacts to the state by breaking the contract. I just want you to understand, and you have potential, mutual damage and punishment that should be likened to what's called socially harmful behavior and criminal acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24926	Two minutes and 20 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Does anyone else want a word in the discussion on the details of the amendment to Article 4? No, I don't. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The word has the People's MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is the amendment to Article 4 and the proposal to delete the new member of 92v, which is contained in that article. The government tabled a pointless argument for refusing my amendment saying they submitted the amendment. They've discovered an epochal truth that means nothing. As far as the bill itself is concerned, I would remind you that, in time, the DiIsraeli said that we rule people by word. It is not disputed that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the proposing representatives introduce a new totalitarian order in the Republic of Serbia, among other things, and such legal solutions. The first thing you did was you passed the Law on Judges that abolished the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which abolished the continuity of the judicial function guaranteed by the Constitution and you decided simply to discipline the judges, to put about 800 judges out of work. It's a direct blow to democracy in this country. It's a direct blow to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's really the introduction of totalitarianism. The judges now fear whether they will be re-elected or not. The next thing you know, you've decided to discipline one, also a pillar of democracy and a pillar that controls work and executives, and legislative and judicial branches of government, which are media. No matter what we in the SRS can put a large number of objections to the work of the media, this kind of work and the introduction of dragon penalties is really inappropriate. You really want to destroy the media in this country. As Mr Dinkic destroyed Serbian banks that had far greater debt claims, he now wants to discipline Serbian media and challenge their existence and to unify the public in Serbia. So, only certain things will be out in public. When we talk about headlines in some media, certain headlines certainly deserve criticism. However, representatives of Mladjko Dinkic forget that just the owners of the republican government sitting abroad spoke the worst possible words at the expense of the Serb people, among other things, that a Serbian virus should be deleted, and then Joe Biden, whom you received so broadly when he came to Belgrade, said all Serbs should be locked up in concentration camps. Nevertheless, you also celebrate Biden, and the American administration, as people who bring democracy and help the Republic of Serbia, which is really pointless. Which is why, among other things, you want to discipline the media. I remember a circular letter from the EU that recommended it to the media in 2004 and, in a certain way, forbidden to speak negatively about the EU and the UN tribunal in The Hague. Here you have washed the brain of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that sending the Eulex mission does not mean recognition of Kosovo's independence and the Metohija. I have in front of me a document from the European Commission, EULEX and the EU Special Representative Office in Kosovo and Metohija, which, among other things, says in one of the headlines, what Kosovo needs to do to become an EU member. You can see that here, you can see the title and there's the European Commission's markings. It is an official European Commission document in which they openly acknowledge that they are doing everything in their power to make Kosovo an EU member. So, you lied to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia when you said sending out the Eulex mission wouldn't mark an indirect recognition of KIM independence. That's one thing. The second thing, we have seen that there are promotional articles about NATO in certain media. The US government has published one piece of information in time explaining that the US military and the Pentagon are funding abroad a media campaign promoting NATO. They led it under the so-called so-called. Strategic communication and they've created such a famous map of the road, which you've been using quite often lately in the media. So, in this strategic communication, they finance the media abroad, you guess in those countries where the NATO act should shed light on its dirty and criminal face, participate in the formation of public opinion, conduct, as Americans themselves say and transmit US News, psychological operations or psychological propaganda operations, and, of course, abuse information by carrying out a well-known military tactics, military deception tactics. Unfortunately, that happens in Serbian media, too. But that's not the reason for the dragon punishment again, and especially not the reason, you probably missed it when a colleague from G17 said that, for the introduction of a colony. Since no one has responded to that, here I am -- the Talion means revenge. Talion is a backward concept that was abandoned in Roman law. So it comes down to a simple retaliation, if anyone has done you harm, so must evil be done to him. It was abandoned 2,000 years ago. So it is really inappropriate for someone to call on a colony in the 21st century Serbian Parliament. Who controls the media in Serbia? In time, one diplomat said Serbs would find out who occupied them the moment they found out who owned their media. It is not disputed that most of the media, unfortunately, in the Republic of Serbia, control SR Germany and the United States. Even Gjerj Soros, who signed a petition on the bombing of the Republic of Serbia, has about 39% of the capital in one of the Serbian media. But that's not the reason for the dragon punishment of the media. This is another reason to work on freedom of information and to enable citizens to be properly and fully informed. Who are the other people who control the media in the Republic of Serbia? Recently, Ratko Knezevic, former associate Milo Djukanovic and prosecutor from Bari, reported that Djukanovic and Stanko Subotic Cane, therefore Milo Djukanovic and their tobacco cartel control certain media in Montenegro and Serbia, but also responsible for numerous murders, including Vanja Bocan, Radoslav Stojčić Badža, Jusuf Jusa Bulic, Duško Jovanovic and Ivo Pukanic. It is just amazing that new Euro-Atlantic forces are also. their representatives met very often with Stanko Sudotic Canet and Milo Djukanovic. That's what happened to Mr. Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic who, imagine, were at the Paris hotel "Ric", so more exclusively he couldn't be, met with these two mobsters. To remind me, Milo Djukanovic is the leader of an anti-Serbian campaign in Montenegro, a man who has recognised KIM's independence and who, according to all evidence, is among other things the prosecution in Barry's testimony about it -- a mobster of the world's caliber. Nikolic and Vukic said it was perfectly normal for them to meet at the Hotel "Ric". What's interesting about the Ric Hotel in Paris? Here, we made it from their official website to take over the price list when it comes to their rooms and apartments. Look, room prices range from 2,200 to 13,000 euros in one day, of course. How would you say the person from Alan Ford - the price of real change? There are also certain basement rooms, so let's call them, which are below the level of Mr. Nikolic and Vukic, which can be obtained at a discount rate of 550 to 870 euros a day, again the price of real change. And one warning-- that pets under five kilos can't get into a hotel. So everything in line with the highest European and NATO standards. As you can see, we really cannot allow the media in our country to control - the United States, SR Germany or the mafia. I will set an example to block the entry of Russian capital in this regard. What for, Mr. Minister? Why, if the Russians here want to invest in banking and in the media, why is every possible arrival of the Russians blocked? Among other things, one of Mr. Biden's most basic demands when he came here was to prevent a new entry of Russian capital here at all costs. Regardless of all this, while respecting the importance of the public word, we must fight for the media in Serbia to be free. They have the right to provide certain information. They cannot be punished in such a way that this medium disappears. The story of the media that owes a certain amount of money to some companies needs to be shut down immediately, and not taking into account how much they're looking for -- doesn't that make this bill here, it's really inappropriate. So you have to consider both. It is an old practice by Mr Dinkic, who has also closed Serbian banks. He said Beobanka has great debts -- there is, but there are far greater claims, plus she had a joint venture in both Paris and London. So, we have to fight for freedom of public word, but we must not use dragon penalties, especially our colleague in the Talion to punish the media in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24928	Eleven minutes and 18 seconds is the time spent from the time available to the SRS parliamentary group, with 44 minutes and two seconds remaining. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24929	It's kind of logical for me to get involved in this debate after my colleague Alexic, since as we promised at the beginning, unfortunately, Mr Bradic, you didn't make the real media owners seem visible to our society and to our public. Of course, we agree with that part of this bill when it comes to enrolling in the register, but we certainly haven't changed that member of the law. On the contrary, we will very much help to really pronounce every name and name that hides behind the brother-in-law companies that are media owners. I believe that it may not be a bad topic to think about, and it really should be public hearing on ownership in the media, playing here in front of the Serbian public, and that all MPs, those who are interested in the whole story, have the opportunity and the opportunity to ask the right questions and get the right answers and be really available to the public in real time. As you've had a chance to see, there's no coincidence in this Balkan space. Mr. Knezevic also got involved in this debate in a certain way. Of course, this debate did not bypass the Montenegrin parliament either. This debate will certainly not bypass the Croatian Parliament, because the whole area threatens to become private property of people, who have come into a very suspicious situation of monopoly over the media. It was very interesting, and it was some kind of experiment, when we started talking on this subject, very open, with the gloves off -- only one weekly published the names of all the tycoons we mentioned, while the rest of them, of course, published only a few, and that's enough answer -- who actually manages the media in Serbia. On the other hand, it is also very important how it participates in this debate, which and in what way. What is most significant is that what the SRS has been announcing for months, and it happened at the Paris-based Hotel "Ric", said Mr. Knezevic, I think there will be very interesting sequels. But if our state and your resolution ministry, as well as the Ministry of Interior, are deaf about the allegations that have been made, and may I remind you, Mr. Knezevic testified about this in Bari, all those who were scheduled to testify about Canet Sutotic and his intentions, from Darko Beli Rasopovic, Žugic, Mr. Jovanovic, Ivo Pukanic, were killed. So we have a person in front of us who has really all the resources, not for nothing, buys politicians, buys the media and affects decision-making, and this country certainly gives him absolute support for it. We are talking about a man who owns Future Plus, who, among other things, is a wanted person, who is also trying to make a distribution network in Montenegro through his really great friend, Mr Milo Djukanovic. This man holds in his power a large number of printed media with his enormous debts. You've done nothing to punish this man and side with the media who are just looking for their money. The worst part is, you're probably not going to do anything, I'd really like you to deny me, to launch an investigation after Mr. Knezevic's interview. You don't have to believe the SRS, we'll, like I said, call on a number of sources that we have and it's no secret that there are some Latin sources that we use. For example, it is a very interesting story and the French connection of Canet Subotic, and how he bought certain Croatian media, why and how Ivo Pukanic was killed. That's what we're gonna talk about today. What is also very important, and it seems to me that it was not the most clearly presented to the Serbian public, we are now in direct transmission, the public asks and must know, is that Mr. Knezevic said the following: at the Hotel "Ric", when Alexander Vucic, Tomislav Nikolic, Mr. Djukanovic and Mr. Subotic, at one table, was the reason because Subotic and Djukanovic had a plan long ago to control the media and political space of the former Yugoslavia, because of their business interests and illegal activities. Now, that was the hell of a plan, this is the most significant part, which Pukanic and his "Nacional" discovered, and because of which Pukanic and Franic died. It's not my job to do this investigation. Fortunately, the police and prosecutors of Croatia and Serbia have mostly solved the case. I'm asking if they are? After allegations like this, if we had a serious and legal state and a resort that said it wanted to put order into media space, these allegations would be quite enough material evidence to launch investigations that would, of course, include the names of politicians mentioned. What is also very significant is the French connection of Canet Subotic, of course, our Latin source. It is mentioned Mr Arnon Danjan or Danžan, if I speak his last name well, which he contacted from Croatia from Saturday during the period when Cane Subotić tried to avoid Interpol's warrant. What is very significant is that this man is a high-ranking official of the French Intelligence Service, a member of Mr. Sarkozy's party. Unfortunately, he did not win in his district, but he is a gentleman who imports very significant names, which even appear in this House. The gentleman who covered up Canet Subotic every time there was a need. A gentleman who also has something to do with Mrs. Mirjan Hrga. She's usually a journalist and editor of New Television. It also has significant journalistic and editorial names from the Serbian media space. What was also significant, and as regards Mr. Sutotic and his French ties, which has been directly influencing Serbia's media space and all that has been happening lately, and we should remind that after 2000, the French gentleman for his spy merits, with only 29 years of age, was given a French national merit medal, became a special adviser to Eastern and Southeast Europe of the French spy headquarters, according to the source, that he was particularly in charge of co-operation with Balkan states, to remain in the post until 2002. He then joined the French foreign ministry and served on a permanent French mission to the UN in Geneva for the next two years. After that, he spent a year in Kosovo as senior adviser to Javier Solana, former NATO leader and EU foreign policy chief. Also in early 2005, this gentleman joined the French Foreign Minister's office as his adviser to Southeast Europe. So, what is also extremely important, as regards this gentleman, and here we are again coming up with direct media space in Serbia, Croatia's National in 2001, just to remind you, Mr Bradic, that the business channels extend throughout the Balkans, thanks to secret support or protection of the highest political and police authorities in almost all the countries of the former Yugoslavia. Some of these authorities, like the late Mr. Raspopovic, were brutally killed to send a message to anyone who would dare to talk about these things that we're talking about publicly. So what's also very important, and we're finally coming up with something that we're, of course, going to see that I'm doing a maximum rationalization of time, to just touch, is German capital, because if you think this debate is going to turn into a debate about Canet Subotic, you're wrong. Of course we will also talk about Mr. Djindjic, the "Diloit and Tuš", about Mr. Vlahovic and Mr. Djelic, about the real owners of the "Economis Group", "The Weekly Telegraph", and about their influences, let's say, in many television houses here, but we will not leave out Mr. Bek or Mr. Miskovic, and then I hope that we will finally get the right answer from you in what way you think you can arrange the media space in Serbia. Finally, to finish this part of the exposure, with just one more piece of information. Based on our Latin source again, Subotić is in co-operation with the German publishing house "Vac", I suppose it is very well known to all of you, but rarely who will talk about it – because, as I say, it is a path that is more rarely going, and all of this may sound like a chronicle of announced deaths, because certain people really have a solid number of people on their list for the shooting, without anyone's head hair missing because of it – therefore, in collaboration with the German publishing house "Vac" Cane Saturdayić, through his company "Futura Plus" definitely controls the distribution and retail of cigarettes in Serbia. He owns Famis for the manufacture of dried-meat products, recently bought some other companies, which we'll talk about later. In France, co-owner of two wineries, there are companies in Russia and Greece dealing with the distribution of non-alcoholic beverages, registered in Denmark "Emi Group". He owns companies in Cyprus. He is the largest alcoholic importer for Montenegro, where he also bought the Admiral Hotel and part of the island of St. Nikola, who we hear again from our Montenegrin sources, is likely to sell. He also planned to buy a part of Montenegro's distribution house, etc. So it's about a gentleman who obviously plans to own a good part of the Balkan area. If your investigation, I hope, after our insistence, we will try to hold this tension daily, show a real monopoly, say, in the distribution of printed media, say, by Canet Subotic and the German publishing house "Vac", then we would like to hear how do you think that, in the context of the proposed amendments and addition of the Public Information Act in the part relating to the owner of the public ballot, you solve this vicious circle? Printed media owners are mostly inequitable because Cane Subotic and the large distribution chains owe them the money they earned. We're going to stop here, and we're going to try to call Bia, too, when it comes to Mr. Beck's share of ownership and this group around Deloitte&touche, given that we've been doing some little research and we've come up with significant data. Let's see how the state really plans to deal with something that she's actually been supporting for so long. All these people and everything we talked about couldn't have done this if they didn't have protection, unfortunately, and the state of Serbia, or the government you belong to.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24930	Since the time of the SRS parliamentary group, 13 minutes and 43 seconds have been used, the MP said she wants to spend on the time of the parliamentary group. Anybody else want a word? MP Velimir Ilic. The parliamentary group is available for four minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24931	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting today to draw attention that when we discuss amendments to the information law and when we wanted to fix one bad law, you appear without the government's opinion, MPs sit in the halls for over two hours, waiting for you to get the green light from someone's cabinet so that the session can start without that opinion, which may not matter to you. It is important for us to have the government agree on this law. The government doesn't know what to do with this law. The government doesn't have a majority for this kind of bad law, that's for sure, and that's what we're convinced of. Many parliamentary groups are being held by the head, they say – there is nothing we can do against one dictatorial team of people from the ruling coalition that imposes everything and everything. We had those embarrassing changes here yesterday. Parliament is working on this 40-degree scandal for 16, 18 hours. They were not treated like this on Gol Island, let alone the Messengers of the people. Why? What you care about today is how long it's been, how many laws you've passed, what you've passed, what you've passed by these laws and how much you boast that 15 laws in the morning have been adopted in a debate in principle, and these laws are of no value to anything. This information law simply wants to protect certain incompetent politicians with whom you from the government don't know what you're going to and where you're going, because for them no one in Serbia will vote. They're burning and burning in that government, deciding everything, pulling the main strings. Their MPs do not participate in the debate, nor do they care. The ruling coalition has disbanded the MPs, we see here a dozen who come in neatly and sleep a little here, mutilate, walk, and they don't know what they're going to do with themselves. The opposition is trying to do something, but it's also taking part in some of the unholy acts that you're doing and doing. I was sorry to see Minister Dulic when you kicked him out like a can of trash. He wanted something, a martyr, to say, you said, not you, your president— come on, Minister, goodbye, thank you, the next minister comes in to spend that time. You take people's time, you take away Mr. Nikolic's regular time to speak, you take away many MPs, you don't see that they called just to start the next session before 6:00 p.m. and that would be legal. It's never been remembered. Believe me, I've been an MP since I was 93 in parliament. I have never remembered such a dictatorship and the humiliation of an institution like the Serbian parliament. I've never felt so humiliated as a messenger of the people, when you literally do what comes to mind. You have no shame at all. Of course, Mr. Tijanic shuts down whenever it's ticky, you know that Tomica Milosavljevic and the health laws here would massacre MPs after his presentation; of course, we immediately shut down the transmission and watch the cycling race. Yesterday I was saying who's normal to watch five hours of cyclists in the group ride nonstop bikes and you sit and watch it, like – Serbia wants to watch it. There's sports channels, there's Eurosport, there's a series of opportunities to watch if anyone wants to. The information law, a set of laws, for example, from health care, has been passed in some night sessions, isn't that embarrassing for Serbia? We have been thinking that Serbia is going towards democracy, that Serbia is democratisation every day, that Serbia is heading towards the EU. But they also find it uncomfortable to tell you that you can't get there because you're doing what you're doing. (President: Four minutes and 30 seconds. Ma'am, I've got 15 minutes as head of Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24932	National MP, authorized representative of your parliamentary group, is MP Aleksandra Jankovic. The fact that the People's Parliament isn't in the O.R.... People's MP Velimir Ilic tells me to read the Rules of Procedure. I cannot allow myself to jump back to you, but I am obliged to remind you that the Rules of Procedure applies when the president of the parliamentary group determines who will represent him for one of the agenda points. It is written and must be delivered to the chair chair before the debate begins in principle. The president of the parliamentary group has the same rights as the deputy or deputy president of the parliamentary group in cases where they wish to participate in the debate. So I was obliged to let you use the time of the parliamentary group you have left, which is four minutes and 30 seconds. National MP Miroslav Markicevic throws it away. Please don't do this, it's a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You are now using the time at your disposal as president of the parliamentary group, implying that MP Aleksandra Jankovic no longer has the authority as an authorised representative. The time at your disposal is 15 minutes. Just register in the electronic system and you'll get the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24933	Listen, can we ever say something in this room and not listen to comments? I guess we do, and we've been in the congregation for so long, we can follow and speak as the Rules of Procedure provides. Therefore, Mrs. Komic, you are giving us a lesson that lasted longer than my discussion. Always give us a lecture. I cannot understand that you spoke more than the entire Serbian opposition. Are you recording it? Does anyone tell you – Mrs. Komic, you speak more than all MPs together? I can't understand if you love that microphone so much, do you love talking in parliament so much?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24934	People's MP, I remind you of Article 103 of Section 1 and it is your duty to speak of the agenda. Thank you. Go ahead and keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24935	Okay, no problem. So you've been passing laws here the way you've been bringing, breaking, chopping, ruining a debate, completely bringing Serbia back into one darkness where it was long, many years ago. You're blocking everything in the media, but I hope that's your last move. Every time someone's near the end, they're looking for that last move, which is to be protected by the media laws. Therefore, you cannot be the one incompetent Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Dinkic, who is completely running the National Bank, the National Investment Programme, which is completely leading the economy of a country, simply to hide it from criticism, to protect it from the laws. We will continue to say that he is one of the evils currently in the government and that we, as Serbian representatives of the people, must seek to get rid of ourselves as soon as possible, because it is not good for Serbia. Serbia cannot move forward with the kind of furniture we have. Yesterday, it was saddened to see an MP talking about national minorities cleaning him out of the gym to get in Mrs Dragutinović, so someone waved to her, faster Dragutinović, take the place, and that martyr got confused and forgot his purse, went, didn't know where he was. When you do so with your ministers, what will you do with us? That's why we don't think it's weird. Yesterday it was funny to watch Mr. Minister buy himself and run in half-run from this room to get out before 18 hours, so you'd have a session at night. Why do you need that? Work on Saturdays, work on Sundays. What's this all about? At a temperature of 40 degrees, you want to quickly adopt laws that mean a very, very bad position for Serbia. You can't explain to the MPs that this country is facing bankruptcy, that it's a budget-charging thing, that this state owes four billion euros this year, in six months you're in charge of the IMF when you add that's over four billion euros, that nothing works, nothing works. That's what you want to put away, to hide from the people, so the villagers don't know where they're going and what they're going to do. No one will buy anything from agricultural products. The purchasing power of the population dropped by over 50% compared to last year. You can see that agriculture is down by 24% compared to last year. There's no investment. You show projects that are funny, a project of a million dinar images of RTS and shows in the morning program. Bought a man a copy of the bow and hired his nephew and it contributed to the development of a small economy. Please be nice, and you didn't say whose member he was. You work here completely party institutions that only live on being members of individual parties. You hire thousands of people a day in various administrative affairs. It is unsustainable and impossible for Serbia and can no longer be maintained. The municipal police city of Belgrade will cost 8.8m euros annually. What do you think you're paying off? There are no new charges. He doesn't strip naked. You took everything that could be taken and everything now stopped. Where are your jobs, where are those 200,000 jobs Boris promised? You've got 200,000 cancellations on the line. A hundred thousand people have lost their last months of social security. It can't be treated, the most basic. What are we supposed to talk about today? What can the Minister of Culture do if he doesn't have a man for bread? He can't survive. How many thousands of people are ahead of power outages, and that's in September? The bills are coming in. Here, you've had your second construction season. It's an annual vacation, it's autumn, it's winter. How can Serbia last with gas prices like this, with prices like this that can't simply survive these more ordinary people? You're just breaking up, your bosses are in charge of getting into some history, making some unsettled ones. We still need that. They want to write a page of history and you're all suffering from being something big. And our ordinary man needs to pay for electricity, to put on and put on his family's basics, to educate children and feed his family. You can't provide that. You don't realize that it's the responsibility of the ruling coalition to provide work for a working-age population, that a working-worthy man, who goes to work neatly, can live off his salary. You don't understand. You're in high politics, you're in all kinds of nonsense, and that's what's been getting everybody's throats. We don't know where we're going with you anymore, and what do we do? You're just chasing those laws. Come on, adopt everything in one day, unite the debate, and no one will tell you anything, just like you're doing this. Don't embarrass yourself again, both you and us. And the people ask us when we go to our places, to our cities -- what's going on out there, what's that like? You're being ridiculous, and we're being humiliated because we're sitting and we have to follow and listen. Don't think the opposition's gonna put up with this for a long time. We have other solutions. We're gonna get out of here, we're gonna stand outside, and we're gonna keep this agenda together every day and talk to the people. And that's one way. And don't laugh, Mrs. Comic. This is sad, this is sad. You're responsible for this situation in parliament and you have to understand that. Sometimes someone will call you, ask - ma'am, why is it like this? Can Sasa Tijanic do whatever she wants with the Public Service, which pays for this people from her suffering, from her sweat? Imagine, now you've introduced a parallel to pay for cable TV and public service. You don't think we're going to launch an initiative to end this way of funding the Public Service. How can a citizen, who pays for a neat public service to watch RTS pay for a cable distributor, who unfortunately entered a small door here without a dinar indemnity of this state? Natural resources are used in a way that is exaggerating. Do whatever you want. Here, cities, I've been telling you these days -- cities are in a difficult situation, municipalities in a difficult situation. No transfer funds are paid. In some parts, people can't survive. Take the Lebanese, the Kursumli, the Major; there's only the locals and the police getting paid, no one else. Don't do anything in the cities. Why don't you put once on the agenda, get all the media, the state of the economy to bring in, why don't you bring in the Minister of Economy to give his programme, see where he's taking this Serbia and what he's doing with it? How he's going to explain to the citizens five million people lined up to sign up for some action. Why doesn't he pay for them? Why isn't he responsible for it? Can the Vice-President of the Government deceive the people using means of information, enroll them for days and hours, and stand in the ranks of five million people, and that there is nothing? You all say "economic crisis." There's always a crisis in the world, Mrs. Comic, there's always a crisis. The crises are coming and going, and we're constantly sinking lower and lower. You're going to ask me -- well, you've been to the government. Yes, and that government was much more normal than this government now. The situation was more normal, it was working, it was investing, it was building, wherever you were going, there was a construction site. What is it today? The story of corridors. It's a hollow story. How do you plan to build Serbia? Why did you shut down the concession? You know, at the Ibaric Master's Office, there's no more technical traffic, because there's no possibility. Now you're bragging about making highways where there's no traffic. Where's your strategy for developing Serbian traffic, where's your spatial plan for Serbia that's been adopted? You don't respect anything. Only who tells you what to put here and speed up the laws and orders it under the EU firm. Is it a shame not to talk about health care in public, to hear people's problems? How many problems are there, and Tomica Milosavljevic is the five mandates of the health minister? Did you know that everyone who came to this country said that the pharmaceutical mafia was the biggest mob in the world, and also with us the most convincing and powerful mob? No one can touch it when you mention it immediately - get it off the agenda. When we discuss health care, do we have to discuss it at night's session, without television transmission? Is that possible? The people are extremely endangered, he's health-threatening, there's nowhere to be treated. Not everyone can get to Belgrade. You have a few facilities here that are ready and capable. I've listed to you these days how difficult the situation is in health care, that it's a great risk and the operation of tonsils, let alone something else. Therefore, please don't play with the Serbian parliament. Don't act so arrogant. Do not use the force of the majority and abuse power, get down to the ground, let the debate go the way it should and allow the media to follow it. Don't choke Serbia's media space. Please, you've choked completely, you've created agencies, you control everything, you run it. You won't be long. It creates one charge, one revolution with the people and all of us, we're all full of anger. So here you're telling us that it's an expensive parliament, that it's expensive to pass sessions. This is where the man who holds all the billboards in Serbia tells us, he's not here in the O.R., the chairman of the Administrative Board, he just needs some decision to make. He's using government budgets for many government activities and doing his private business, and he's telling us what he's going to do to the MEPs, what he's going to do to them, it's going to have to end everything. The pay should also be abolished. Here are people who are large budget users, who suck the budget like those ticks when they stick, who have stuck to the Republic of Serbia's budget for years and only suck it. You can't amputate them, because you're all in one game. If you move anyone, your government falls. So you won't be able to get through with this kind of policy for long. Let go of the media. Don't make this shameful law. Do not allow Aleksandar Tijanic to literally abuse and does you some services Public Service to Serbia. Serbia's public service should do its job and it cannot be above parliament, that it determines times when to watch the transfer. You've released an important debate at three o'clock tonight. Who normally sits there to watch that? You say we're pleased. So this is not good, and the longer we get, the worse we get. It's nice and correct to back off and call the election. The elections here are inevitable. There's something to be done here. You can't be courting national minorities and breaking the Constitution, voting some laws extra, courting anyone who bothers you not to fall to the government, and who doesn't bother you and who holds you government. Run and chase each and every one of you by the sleeve, to help you out a little bit, to last a day longer. Therefore, there is no salvation for you. You have strayed from one right path, please return to where the Serbian parliament should be and the democratisation of Serbia does not stop.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24936	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. If not, pursuant to Article 148(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee, as incomplete, rejected the amendment of the Parliament of the People's Parliament of Jelena Trivan to Article 4 with a correction and, according to Article 148(3), paragraph 3. The rules of procedure of the rejected amendments cannot be discussed and shall not be voted upon. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24937	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of the amendment to Article 4 relating to the new Article 92g of Article 3, is that electronic media is brought into an equal position with the printed media and that the consequences of a dragonish punishment of electronic media are mitigated, and the essence of that dragon punishment is to put out those electronic media which are not at the will of the regime. Mr. Minister, in the principle debate, you pointed out that you as a director have a duty and that you have the ability to bring order into Serbia's media space. But aside from knowing the art of directing, you will also need huge support from the judicial and police authorities in the Republic of Serbia, because you seem, Mr. Minister, to the end of the bargaining process, you are not aware of what kind of angels you intend to deal with. Ms. Marina Ragus and Mr. Boris Aleksic have practically explained to you what mafia clans today rule the media area of Serbia. One of the main mafia moguls is Stanko Subotic-Cane, who was written by Dr Vojislav Seselj in his famous book "Stanko Subotic-Cane Zhabac, the king of the tobacco mafia". At the time the book was published, many politicians in Serbia laughed as Vojislav Seselj invents, suffers from various conspiracy theories, how he persecutes witches, etc., because Stanko Subotic - Cane Žabac, and then, and now, was a friend and sponsor of the forces they called themselves democratic, reform and pro-European. Otherwise, Stanko Subotic-Cane Zhabac was the leader, and today he is the leader of the Serbian part of Djukanovic's tobacco mafia. That tobacco mob was about, and there's still two parts. One is Italian, the other is Serbian. The Italian wing of this mafia leads a certain Veselin Barovic and is finally spoken of by Mr. Ratko Knezevic, head of the mission of Montenegro to the United States, a man who is now probably at risk of life because of all the information he has placed in the public, which concerns criminal affairs related to Milo Djukanovic. As early as November 1996, Italian officials drew attention to Mr. Knezevic that Montenegro has become the site of the worst mobsters in the Balkans and that the official Italian government will not be able to tolerate such behaviour. An indictment has been filed against Milo Djukanovic, whom the prosecution in Naples assessed as the leader of a mob network in the Balkans, which dealt with tobacco trade, but later also arms trafficking, alcohol and white slavery, of course, and narcotics. Stanko Subotic-Cana Žabac is a man who is now sovereignly ruling the media space of Serbia, a friend of Milo Djukanovic, a man who, according to Ratko Knezevic's testimony in October 2007, met with Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic at the Hotel "Ric" in Paris. Those mobsters were behind a project called breaking the SRS. Just to remind you, Mr. Minister, a few months before an attempt to crack the SRS was made, a daily newspaper in Belgrade, "Gazeta". It was funded by Miskovic, with one single task, to prepare the citizens of Serbia and the public of Serbia for the destruction of the SRS. After September 2008, "Gazeta" stopped coming out because it fulfilled its task. This is what I am saying today, when Olli Rehn, the European Union's High Enlargement Representative, comes to Belgrade, a man who is practically a real master or one of the masters of certain political leaders in Serbia. Now it's completely clear. There's no dilemma now. Only a blind man can't see that, in practice, Boris Tadic, Mladjan Dinkic and Tomislav Nikolic have the same boss and that the mission and the task of the boss is next – despite sometimes incriminating political verbalism, despite sometimes incriminating accusations against each other, Olli Rehn is tasked with bringing the first next parliamentary elections, all votes, and those for Boris Tadic, Dinkic and Tomislav Nikolic, together in the same sack. So that is the essence of today's events in Serbia. Otherwise, today is Wednesday, Olli Rehn is coming, likely to hold talks with his political dunes here in Serbia, and on Friday, Mr Minister, the verdict of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal over the so-called. Disrespecting the court, the man who's being tried, among other things, and because he wouldn't let the SRS fall into the hands of the mob. That's one of the most important reasons why there was an attempt on the SRS. Dear citizens of Serbia, I think you're quite clear now. If you do not want a mob clan to be replaced by another mob clan in the next parliamentary elections, then there is no other one but vote for the SRS, a party that has never been, nor will it ever be in the hands of the mafia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24938	Since the time of the parliamentary group, the MP has used five minutes and 14 seconds. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 5th Amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Otto Kišmarton, Vladan Batic and Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24939	I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 of the amendment to the Public Information Act. I would like to propose that Article 5 be abolished, as that article increases the fines 20 times. I think it's too much punishment, that they're inappropriate and inhumane. Such penalties, proposed by the government, would have destroyed the media in Serbia. The legislative proposal represents the haughtiness of the Serbian government, namely individual ministers in the government. The government wants to demonstrate the force by adopting the law, which has been fiercely criticised by opposition MPs, as well as the public. Of all MPs, not even those who are in office, nor the minister, or anyone else, defends this law in this assembly. For the President of the Assembly and for this government, it would probably be best to cut the TV broadcast so that this mess that's going on here doesn't spread any further. Such a government would like to abolish such a law by all media who do not inform citizens about the great successes of the government and the successes of individual ministers, especially ministers who run the economy. The law is so bad that amendments cannot be corrected by such a proposal to amend the Information Law leads Serbia a step backwards in democratisation of society, Serbia is moving away from the EU and leading Serbia into the dark.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24940	Does anyone else want a word from the MPs who have submitted the amendment? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Obradović, Zoran Šami, Nikola Lazić, Milan Lapčević, Milos Aligrudić, Dragan Šormaz, Svetlana Stojanović, Željko Tomic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Marković and Vladimir Milentjevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24941	In the meantime, we've received final answers from the government. She, of course, rejected all the amendments. I have to read the explanation and tell Mr. Alexic I disagree with him, this is a really great explanation. The argument reads this - the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the Government has proposed an amendment amending Article 5. It's a bill of law. The explanation is accurate. We have submitted an amendment to the text of the law, the government has completely changed that text of the law, and that amendment is not known what it refers to. That's what I was talking about. Therefore, the government's argument is precise. The only trouble is that we couldn't submit an amendment to the new text of the law, to the new text of Article 5, among other things. But it's worth mentioning. With its amendment, the government has reduced the ceilings twice, but in order not to interpret it wrongly in public, I must say that the penalties have been increased ten times since the existing penalties. You know, when you increase your sentence ten times, it's not proof that you have excessively good intentions. We have suggested that these penalties be reduced much more and brought to some reasonable extent, because what the government has proposed with its amendment, that penalties go from one million to ten million dinars, we think that this is really something that is not appropriate. The fines of ten million dinars are not pronounced for much more serious economic offences than this one.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24942	Anyone else want a word? MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24943	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 6, and I fully agree with my previous colleague. The fines are too large and the SNS wanted to know that it doesn't agree with this kind of criminal policy. This is an inappropriate attitude towards the media in Serbia. I think it's quite clear... Mrs. Comic called me. Is that right? You called and you gave me your word. I've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24944	People's MP, we are currently in the debate of the amendment to Article 5. I don't see that you've submitted the amendment, and I haven't changed to the amendment to Article 6.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24945	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24946	I ask when the speaker is finished – is there anyone else who wants to talk about the amendment the amendment was addressed to the Assembly? Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by MPs Zoran Antić, Vladan Batić, Vjerica Rade, Aleksandra Janković and joint MPs Željko Tomic, Jovan Palalić, Milos Radulović, Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Vojić-Marković, Zoran Nikolic, Milos Aligrudić, Vladimir Milentjevic, Aleksandar Pejčić and Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24947	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 6. The draft law amending the Law on Public Information is, in fact, an amendment to the existing Article 95. The law. An explanation of the Government's failure to accept the amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the SRS was that the amendment should not be accepted for the reason that the Government has submitted an amendment amending Article 6. It's a bill of law. This is an absolute deception to the public of Serbia by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the resolute minister, Mr Bradic, because these days, it is generally known, has raised a great deal of dust around this law that envisions full control of the media, as we have witnessed these days as a witness to the suffocation and quenching of democracy in the Serbian parliament. And then you, Mr. Bradic, to deceive the public of Serbia, journalists and media editors who are particularly interested in this law, said that the government has submitted certain amendments and that these amendments significantly reduce those penalties provided for in the bill. Now I'm going to deny you, because in Article 6 of your first attitude, you haven't changed anything. So I don't understand why you didn't consider the amendment I submitted. Article 6 provides for a fine of between 30,000 and 200,000 dinars to be a previously responsible editor, and now the founder punishes millions to 10 million dinars. You haven't even changed it to the government's pretext, and the public needs to know. So this dragon penalty remains in force. In the second position, you have really made one change, and that other attitude is a newspaper in general compared to Article 95. You've predicted that a fine of 200,000 to 200,000 dinars for a violation from this member of the sentence and a responsible editor of the public record. Right, the government has reduced the amount here, no more 200,000 to 200,000, but it's a fine of 100,000 to 1,000,000 dinars. The previous fine of up to 10,000 dinars for the founder remains. Your intention is obvious, Mr. Bradic, and the intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Without the final stance of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the amin of Boris Tadic, we would certainly not be discussing this bill today. That is why we do not want to criticize you individually as a minister or as your employer and party president Mladjan Dinkic, who is headed for the war against newspapers, or the media, but the SRS for this campaign against the media and for the obvious introduction of media darkness in Serbia is called directly by Boris Tadic, who is the one who formed this government, who is the one who, as president, can refuse to sign this law if it is adopted in parliament. We are convinced and we Serbian radicals will do everything in our power to keep this law from being passed. We strongly recommend that while you still have time to withdraw this law, because if God is adopted, there will really be nothing from the media, nor from the information, not only when the issues are owned and responsible editors, I am speaking first of all from the point of view of the Serbian citizens, who should be informed of everything that is happening in the country of Serbia and of being notified without censorship, as they really deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24948	It was used two minutes and 52 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24949	I'm sorry about your little check-in. So this article 6 defines the criminal provisions. I would like to repeat what I just said, it is unacceptable for SNS Tomislav Nikolic to increase so much the penalties to the media, ten times the penalty, it is too much punishment and it is unacceptable for us. I think it is much more important to say that as far as this law is concerned, it is obviously part of one political platform of G17 plus and that it is obviously an attempt to wash Mr. Mladjan Dinkic's biography on stage, that he is amnesty of responsibility for all that he has done since 2000, namely in terms of Serbian economy, Serbian economy and that his party grows into a future regional party or possibly manages to elect that magical censorship. With that in mind, I expect pressures on the media to be even more serious. Pressures on this parliament are already being felt and attempts to prevent lawmakers from talking about Mr Mladjan Dinkic's crime, and there will be pressure in other institutions. In these minutes, I'd say DS isn't innocent in the whole story. A year ago, she shut down a TV Resava from Svilinc. In fact, she allowed her silence to be thrown out of her rooms after the DS victory in that municipality. The equipment's been damaged. The contract was not respected. The court doesn't react in all ways to get that TV out of Resava space. They're literally kicked out of the Svilinec and are currently working at Despotovac. There are such examples throughout Serbia, and unfortunately the present minister has not responded in this case either. The Association of Journalists has condemned. It was written to the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, but apparently the violence of the DS, primarily the Resava Democrats, did its part. The TV Centre, where the mother of the municipality's vice-president has part of the ownership of the television and this was an introduction and example of what she has throughout Serbia, was an introduction to all that is currently happening in the media.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24950	National MP Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24951	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the president of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic has told us several times in this room that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia cannot discuss the law on the transfer of powers to the AP Vojvodina until it has received the government's opinion. We've been waiting for the government's opinion for months. I ask you, Mrs. Comic, how we began today to discuss this item of agenda without the government's opinion, which came just four and a half hours after this session began. It's inadmissible and it's really embarrassing. What's sad is that whenever you're in charge of this room, it's as intense as a burger factory. I don't think there's any need for us to do this more than do our job. I would like to agree with the theory put forward by the distinguished colleague Saša Milenić just now that the fundamental correspondence of lex tallionis inclinates and inhibits and in a certain way absorbs, in an explicit and very serious way, the dragon's sentences in the civil state. I think we understand each other completely and there's no dilemma about it. I also agree that there is no dilemma that it is rude for Mr. Veroljub Stevanovic to write in a newspaper that he is a lowlife. There was certainly a lot of justification to write a boasting mayor and boast the MP, because by performing both functions directly violates the law and there is no dilemma about it. The DSS parliamentary group has proposed that Article 6 of the Bill be deleted, as the proposed amendments to the law establish responsibility for the founders' violations, for something which is the sole responsibility of the editorial policy. We believe that nowhere in the world is the founder responsible for what needs to be a responsible editor. Also, this amendment to the government's reasoning is rejected for the reason that the Government has submitted an amendment amending Article 6. It's a bill of law. That's the biggest problem. It is difficult to discuss the law passed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which has eight members and which was amended after a few days by the same government applying six amendments to it. It is hard to defend the culture minister and that the law was written to him by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, with the assistance of editors of "Evening News" and "Blica". And it's hard when counterpart Gorica Mojovic read in this hall 43 names of cultural workers who participated in the creation of a law on culture, and Minister Bradic couldn't state any of the names that participated in the drafting of the information law. It is difficult that you cannot rely on any European law that regulates this area in this way. It's hard when against every domestic proposal that comes from this government, especially the one you've signed and handed over to the National Assembly, rise editors, journalists, teachers, respected people, intellectuals, associations and unions. It is difficult when the culture minister has to pay support for such a law to the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia with 1,800,000 dinars, as you promised to grant them for a project that was smoothly rejected last year. Don't frown, we'll see in this room soon, we'll have a chance to tell you when you've approved those funds. You know what's not hard, Mr. Minister? It is not difficult for you to withdraw this bill from the procedure and you and your associates in your ministry to write a correct proposal that we will discuss here, not to sit in this room and look at one point and justify criticism from the DSS MPs. Otherwise, make sure that when you mark the world's freedom of the media, instead of five minutes of thundering silence, you will hear five hours of thundering whistles. However, it is only May 3rd, and I sincerely hope that in May of next year you will not be a minister and that this government will have long gone into the past, that you will do your job. Until then, please -- don't make a damn alley out of Serbia, you've done so much better in the theater.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24952	The time of the parliamentary group used is two minutes and 20 seconds. There's a word from the MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24953	Since such a bill makes it clear that the legislator’s intention was not to regulate the media area and ensure equal working conditions for all media, it is spontaneously concluded that the aim of this information law was actually to control the government over all existing public votes. But they're in trouble, so-called. non-classified journalists who are rarely accused of war crimes and inciting activities. Mrs. Ragush spoke in time about Mrs. Balletic's case. I have to mention the case of Mrs. Mile Stule, who's not enough that she's a warbler, but still writes at Raja Rodic's in "Glass" and "Thunder." So we consider it an inappropriate profession for TV journalists to address the President of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Franji Tudjman, an after-word of the public word, as a result of the linch atmosphere, and that is what Mrs Milo Stula did. We assure the theatre that such an attitude is completely out of line with the understanding of journalism in Belgrade's Information Directorate, April 13, 1991 -- signed by journalists of type - Gordana Suša, Nadezhda Gaće, Miodrag Popova, Vesna Nesovic. Now, this is certainly the attitude of the journalist in question, who was threatened by Croatian President Tudjman in front of 200 people, because she did not convince him, but rather confronted with the truth about the genocide of the Serbs, to bring her, first of all, to save her son's life by coming to Serbia, picking up only the things necessary for the journey. She came here where she was again welcomed on the knife, for her inability to serve the government of that time. Because at the request of Dr. Tudjman in Karadjordjevic, Milosevic agrees that Milo Stula be the persona non grata on RTV Belgrade. Justice is slow, but partially reaching, so in 1996 she got... (President: The time available has been used. ) Continuing in the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24954	The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić. Time is available for six minutes and 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24955	I rephrase to a gentleman who, speaking a senseless sequence of words of foreign origin, wanted to paraphrasise my presentation, claiming that we understood about it. If that is how you understood what I was saying, then there is no doubt that I understand why you represent the attitudes you express. But in doing so, I understand something else -- that this kind of dissuasion of learning, which you want to promote as a new DSS style, fully corresponds to its election results. Learning can only become a distraction in that interpretation of public life where it is far from the people, as it is desired, inferior, incomprehensible, who understands nothing, and it only has to be manipulated and manipulated. That's where she's supposed to be, by definition, unnatural, so suspicious, anti-national. It is exactly the thought that the media cherished, for which dissipation is the necessity to edit public space in Serbia. It is no accident that you represent the political views that you represent under this bill - you have just scored that phrase. What you don't realize is that, at least in that space where I participate in the elections, how you say "breathing the mayor of Stevanović" and Together for Kragujevac, or together for the Shumadi, they make more than 40% of the citizens' votes, who somehow understand for a wonderful miracle what we're saying, but that hyena clarity has been seen, so it looks like that metaphor of radicals in the frak is an insult, but this time for radicals, because it's just counterproductive to represent it, I'm speaking from the point of view of your own interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24956	The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic. He uses MP group time as the first speaker of the ZES parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24957	The President-in-Office, I am an international MP from Svilinc and the MP in question has brought more lies in his previous address. Since information law is considered, it is a classic example of how you can misinformed a large number of people, meaning through the media and the entire population. First, SO Svilajnac did not recognise the Serbian Progressive Party you are talking about until December 1st last year. So the rooms you're talking about belonged to the SRS. Secondly, the mandates returned to SO Svilian were returned to whoever they belonged to, meaning the SRS. Thirdly, the owner of television is not as you say, the mother of a functioner there, because he can see clearly who these people are by name and last name. So I think that by your discussion, you've led your discussion to the delusion of a large number of people, you've done damage to the Svilajnac municipality, which is one of the most democratic municipalities in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24958	Right to replica, MP Miroslav Petkovic, followed by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24959	What to say after this presentation of fellow Milenic. I'm really going to try to figure out what your learning is doing. What we're proud of and what we're saying I'm sure all Serbian citizens understand well, and you're obviously in the Shumadiya, where I live, speaking in some other language, so maybe they understand you better. Is that a thousand-euro action, whether it's a Fiat that's to be produced in Kragujevac - repeat 40% next time in the elections, believe me I'll never speak to you again, or I won't mention a circulation chip, or everything you've said in this room so far. Believe me, honestly, we were in a position to read stenographic notes and try to figure out what you wanted to say to understand. Don't take it as an insult, maybe I can't throw it as far as you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24960	The word has the People's MP Zoran Antic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24961	Dear colleague, I have not mentioned at any time the SRS or SNS in this context whose mandates or anything. I was talking about the fact that one television, after winning the DS a year ago, which was in municipal rooms, was thrown out, dropped in the rain, equipment damaged, electricity off. The Association of Journalists of Serbia reacted to that. I have a memo. Mr. Nino Brajevic signed that statement. It was sent to the media. There were more articles. No one, unfortunately, has responded from the media or from the institutions of the government, and I argue that one of the reasons why we are so easily coming into the situation to change this law -- because in time the situation would have been completely different. As far as the Business Register Agency is concerned, I have information on the members of the society at the time of the Center Television. All these people were either related to DS officials or friendly. Under point 4, there is a lady named Dobrila Milanovic, the mother of the vice-president of the Municipality of Mr Predrag Milanovic. Nina Brajevic's letter shows that TV Center was registered to the address at which the municipality vice president currently resides. It may be that you have changed that information in the meantime, because it is an obvious conflict of public interest, but at that point things were so standing and the reason is obvious: you intended to eliminate a television that you didn't like, to realize, obviously, a monopoly on information when it comes to the Svilajnac municipality, and I would say the whole Resava. You're trying to do that today, and today you're stalking that television, I have to tell everyone in this way that the public is aware of all this, and I think that the obligation of all MPs, and especially us from the SNS, is to stand in the protection of all televisions. This isn't our TV. As you said, the SNS wasn't even registered the moment that television started working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24962	Anyone else on this amendment? The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24963	I think maybe today you'll give me the right to the time of the parliamentary group. First, I would like to inform the people's MPs and the public of Serbia that the National Assembly has determined that there has been a violation of our right to speak yesterday, based on the presentation of the parliamentary group. That MP Otto Kishmarton spoke less than 13 minutes, not 20, as the president of the Assembly concluded, that this was determined on the basis of a review of the video of yesterday's session and that the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group would be pleased with the great apology that you will give us here once and finally for all the haughtiness that those who lead the sessions of the National Assembly will do during the meeting of the National Assembly. I understand, I repeat, part of last night's discussion, I understand your need, maybe it's a need wider, that one session ends in another two or three hours of work, that it doesn't start a new working day because of one point of the agenda, but please, please, just stay out of the way of running our dignity, our humanity, and avoid lying to us face-to-face about how long we've been saying it, when one is a verifiable fact. So if you want to lie to us once in a while, lie on a subject we can't verify, where we don't have access to information. It was so obvious here that yesterday we were denied to talk, because of your desire to start a new session at six o'clock and so please tell Mrs. President of the National Assembly, I thought I wasn't talking until she apologized, but I have other obligations today. Maybe I'll travel to Paris, God knows what, the road leads me everywhere, and that's why I'm gonna talk on this agenda point. But, believe me, I expect that when she appears in the Assembly, she will react to the fact that she is someone's failure, I mean unintentional, since she was found to have occurred somewhere in the afternoon, when there was no time of tea for the beginning of the new agenda, when someone's accidental failure led her into a situation to start acting ossion, blatantly and very rudely towards the MPs, first the SNS, and then other parliamentary groups that pointed out that. Now I'd like to add something else to the information law that I failed to discuss in principle. The government rejected my amendment to Article 1, in which I suggested that publishers established and registered in the Republic of Serbia must publish content in Serbian and Cyrillic letters or translate it properly into Serbian unless the content is primarily intended for readers, listeners or viewers of another language group. Content intended for language education publishers can publish in a foreign language. Another interesting position, if the content is intended for members of national minorities, publishers can publish in the language of the national minority. A representative of the government has referred to such a serious amendment a sentence of reason why he rejects it. I have to read it. It reads - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the issue of language use is not a matter governed by the public information law. I ask the Government's representative, if he wrote it, and if that's understood at all, how does he know it's not a matter governed by the public information law? Let me tell you right now, if you're going to tell me that this is the law that leads us to the EU, I literally prescribed these provisions from the Information Act in Slovenia, and I prepared you a nice trap. Now just don't tell me that Slovenia will be expelled from the EU after it passed a law that is not pro-European, but that chapter of its law was called the Slovenian language protection. So, Mr. Minister, in the Information Act, Slovenians wrote a section that reads -- protection of Slovenian language, and you don't give us enough here to protect Serbian language and Cyrillic letter, so you now have cacophony of language and letters, but 90% of the press is written in Latin, and only a few daily texts, one Sunday seems to me, still dare to be printed in Serbian, Cyrillic. The law cannot be passed. If the honorable people who have said they will not vote for him and if he is so intolerable that they want not to be voted, we will bring him down for a vote, because you have dared to hurt the finest, most intense feelings in one man, his right to opinion, his right to justice, because you have identified the freedom of the press with the material condition of someone who has defined that only wealthy people can finance the media or that only the media can be financed from abroad. To remind you now of that verdict, the famous verdict that was made in Austria against journalist Lingens, who accused the Chancellor of Austria's Krajski of working with the Nazis to support them, to finance them, that his conduct was immoral and inappropriate and that it demonstrated the opportunism of the lowest rank. Of course, the Austrian court condemned him, but the European Court of Justice took into consideration the appeal of Lingens, heard the reply of the Austrian government, which claimed that judicial protection, penalties and measures were taken out of judgment to preserve the reputation of the Chancellor, that the verdict was necessary in a democratic society, and then the court said this way - we do not exclude the need for the reputation of politicians to be given judicial protection. Politicians must show a high degree of tolerance towards criticism in the media and a request for protection must be measured with the social interests of open discussion on political issues. The politician inevitably and consciously exposes his words and actions to careful control both the journalist and the general public. He is therefore obliged to show a higher degree of tolerance. In election campaigns, politicians use all the weapons at their disposal, including the expressions that are the subject of the dispute. The punishment given to a journalist is a kind of censorship that will most likely prevent journalists from making such and similar comments in the future. In the context of political debate, this punishment will most likely deter journalists from commenting on political discussions on issues relating to life in the community. This kind of punishment will most likely interfere with media in carrying out the tasks of the information transferor and the public guard. In this judgment of the European Court of Justice, your law now falls into the water, because it is meant to punish those who would dare to deal with politicians. Legally or better to say criminally-legally interesting is the view of the Court of Justice in relation to the access of the national court where it is accused, i.e. His duty, please listen to this, to defamation to prove the truth of the spoken and written. The national court does not distinguish between truth and facts and a critical court. The European Court of Justice considers that it is not possible to determine, investigate and prove the truthfulness of a critical court and that this would be the setting up of an impossible task against defence. The journalist had the right to form and own a personal opinion and the right to state that opinion by writing about the political functioning of the Chancellor. Mr. Bradic, under EU law, this verdict is a source of law, this verdict is a law. According to this verdict, you will never be able to condemn any journalist in Serbia under the law that you may pass or perhaps expose Serbia to great costs. First, we will be shamed before the European Court of Justice, and then the costs of compensation that citizens, journalists or media founders will receive by these disputes will be abnormally high. Please once again, if it's worth begging you, give up this bill. He didn't come across media support, he didn't come across the support of politicians, he didn't come across the support of citizens because this law prevents freedom, and freedom is an escape from the realm of submission to the realm of freedom. There are two kingdoms where you can live: either you will be subdued and hopeless, or you will have freedom. You're bringing us back at a time when we've passed laws like this. You can justify that some of us participated in the adoption of these laws. Be better than us. You have a much easier time ahead of you. You have a much easier political and media and any kind of scene, and you know how to edit the scene. This scene is not for tragedy. On this stage, you can really cheer us up with free-thinking laws, and that will bring the people back to you. Even according to that law, men of valor have not acted as subservient, as slaves, and neither will they according to this. Maybe that law was the reason for the brutality on October 5th, now don't make an alibi for some new brutality. So, those MPs who do not want to rule over people, the thought and the freedom of speech, I call on us to bring down this law in the day of voting, to all appear in this National Assembly, to bring our own judgment on it with our own card and to prevent those who do not present anything in Serbia's political life, those who by their own conduct have caused all those criticisms that are being directed to them, to the disadvantage of punishing the people. No one here has the right to punish, but if we leave anyone the right to punish, let it be the people, not the people on the street again, but the people through their institutions. Everything has to be in institutions. When you entered the Council of Europe, and the one Serbia that had that Law on Public Information was not in the Council of Europe, you should have known how much it hurts, especially those in power. Membership in the Council of Europe prevents those in power from accounting with their citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24964	Time at the disposal of the parliamentary group Forwards Serbia is three minutes away. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the Government. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24965	I'll use what little group time there is left. How much time does the group have? I'm sorry, just that information if you can give it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24966	The Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group has 21 minutes and 30 seconds, and an authorised representative for the same three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24967	I'll use group time for this. So, the amendment that the government has submitted changes to the text of the law completely. Article 7 of this bill was completely different. He referred to Article 1's provision that the founder of the public vote must have 50,000 euros in his account, so that the public vote could be maintained. As the Government later proposed to delete it, they remembered that, in Article 7, instead of a provision serving the former, deleted, they would place this latter which spoke of the public information minister's obligation to regulate, within 30 days of the entry into force of the law, the issue of how to conduct a public register and that the founders of the printed and daily public votes are obliged to apply for registration within 30 days of the entry into force of the rules laid down in Article 1, thus making it closer to the deadline from which the founder has certain obligations under this law. So it all sounds nice, it all looks nice when it's read, it looks like one legal polemic. One later amendment, ours or earlier, because first of all we submitted it before you submitted any amendment to Article 7, Mr. Bradic, we asked that article 7 be deleted, just the member who applied indirectly to those 50,000 founding roles, the role that must be held on the founder's account. I have already pointed out in the earlier part of the debate that you have deleted that provision in Article 1 only to cloud the eyes of the public, that you have purposely written this unsustainable condition for the founder in order to later amend him and present yourself as a tolerance party which, behold, my God, in the middle of a public discussion, debates in the National Assembly, advertising of numerous associations or journalists in Serbia or mediator of public words, reacts by having a positive approach to the bill. It's a mymicry and hypocrisy. What you've done has nothing to do with anything good, it only has to do with the desire to maintain this basic motivation in the game, when it comes to the adoption of this law, which is to disintegrate all the public votes in Serbia with all the strength of the political power you possess, in order to subjugate the media public word and that they would only work for the benefit of you politicians who hold power at the moment. Not doubting that my political party will be in power soon, but we're not going to try the kind of cake you want to taste. During the time that Vojislav Kostunica had twice the government under him as president of the government, we had no moment to object to the media. You won't find that anywhere. There is no media source linking Serbia's Democratic Party to media confrontation in Serbia. Why? Because the media, Mr. Bradic, is free information, free media, a pillar of culture in one society and democracy, a pillar of democracy. You want that pillar of democracy to cut. That's what you do. Technically, when you look at the explanation that you rejected the amendment by Vladan Batic, although in the end it is the same as the amendment by the Democratic Party of Serbia to delete this member, you wrote – the amendment is rejected because the government has proposed an amendment amending Article 7. That's a lot. You yourself, by amendment that you have submitted, are fully delegating Article 7 which is previously proposed. What you have submitted is not the text of the bill, but only the amendment to already submit the bill, so it is logical to delete the previous text, as you would like to write something else. How can you refuse an amendment to someone who submitted it just for the reason that they asked for a member to be deleted, and in part, basically, basically, that amendment is identical to what you want to do. Our amendment not to delete your new text, that's true, but that's no reason, that's not a meaningful reason to refuse the amendment of whoever filed it. I don't see what you're actually trying to pull. After all, all your arguments for refusing the amendment are extremely offensive and mark your extremely insubordinate attitude towards the Assembly that has chosen you. That's not what you do in a democratic world. Since this is not done in a democratic world, the way you treat us is in full compliance with your bill. You can't at some point act like a Democrats, act with due respect to the citizens' House of Representatives, because you're not a representative of the citizens, you're a representative of this home, we're representatives of the citizens, and on the other hand you bring such a criminal proposal to the National Assembly, which invalidates the basic values of democratic society. It's, of course, in agreement, all you're doing is in complete agreement. The inability of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to respond to the daily challenges, above all, of the social and economic citizens of Serbia, a complete collapse in which you will drag this country, a complete state collapse in which you have long ago drawn it, these problems have no answers or citizens will seek you through free information. Of course, it's natural to want to cut that channel, it's natural to want to cut off that kind of communication. Why do you need free media, what do you need free information for? Does anyone need to tell the public what you're doing? Of course you don't need that. No self-sustainer, the vain self-sustainer you are, would allow yourself to do so. Here is macaravelism in full swing and in the great part. That's what you do. What you're doing with the state right now and you're submitting to us an amendment that sets some kind of deadline for a minister to bring instructions to run public registers and shit like that. You shouldn't have passed this law. In fact, there is no amendment that can be referred to this bill that would make sense bigger than the withdrawal of the bill itself. Anything you allegedly wanted by this bill can be arranged by the criminal law department. You could have influenced that, but what do you have to do when you haven't affected your own law? It would be less terrible if you invented it. We'd have a nice discussion about it regardless, but less would be terrible for you, than you didn't, you didn't do it. Someone else did it for you, and you're happy to accept it. It's a shame, you shouldn't do that. I would never do that, whoever orders me in this country. I wouldn't do it for my political party, I say it openly and publicly in front of everyone. Remember my words, let this be recorded in the record, and you do whatever you want and whatever you want, but it will not serve you honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24968	Time spent from the time of the parliamentary group is 8 minutes and 12 seconds. Anyone else want a word? National MPs Aleksandra Janković, Vladan Batić, Zoran Krasic and together Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudić, Jovan Palalić, Milos Radulović, Zoran Šami, Željko Tomic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Milica Radović and Vladimir Milentjevic submitted the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24969	Since my time is more than limited, I'm just going to say that I've proposed erasing this member, and since I just promised, I'm going to keep talking about a campaign against the so-called. war-scrapers and instigators who have the role of accomplices. Justice is slow, but partially accessible, so the mentioned lady non-classified journalist Milo Shtula in 1996 won a dispute against the director of RTV Belgrade at the Supreme Court. The decision was signed by Judge Zoran Ivosevic. If she had come amongst herself, she would have been true of the Gospel. She will come among herself, and will not recognize me. Mila Shtula, on the run from Tudjman, ended up among the people who apologize for her behavior, as if she were a retard. The years of persecution have been crowned by the NUNS file since 28 May 2009, with the same qualifications that it has offended the opposition, however, does not say the Serbian opposition. Again, Gordana Suša and Nadezhda Gaća, signatories of the 1991 previous file, are headed by a hectare, in which besides Hrvoja Hitrec, Croatian Minister of Information, representatives of the NGO sector, reportedly famous Sonja Biserko, now apologizes to Tudjman for his unexplored Mile. Bruno Vekaric, recently owned by a Serbian passport, doesn't like Mila, because he didn't like her either. For information, since it is already about the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Information Act, it would be important for all these persecutors to finally announce that Tudjman died. Perhaps his friends in the Serbian media declare the day of mourning, and until then you try to continue the darkness and repression against those who have refused to serve the authorities because they already serve the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24970	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24971	Only formally and legally, this Article 7 belongs to something that is transitional and how the issue of founding capital should be resolved in accordance with the amendments and additions, but we must actually return to the very essence of this law and in particular this bill. The Law on Public Information regulates the way to achieve one freedom, but it regulates something that is both the rights, duties and responsibilities of those who participate in public information, and above all from the point of view of performance and activity, not business. Business is a far broader concept, so it is regulated primarily by business regulations. According to article 1 of the text of this law, not the proposal, but the law, this trip taken by the government, proposing amendments and additions, is something that comes out of the context of matter that must be regulated by the Public Information Act. Of course, your weak side is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that part of the declaration of freedoms, rights and the duties of citizens. Of course, your weakness is also many other provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but in order to fry your stew, on the day that you came to see Supervisor Olli Rehn, and he probably also agreed to deliver this opinion to us, I have to remind you – not you as the promoters and those who will vote for this, I have no intention of warning you or to discuss whether it is better or worse Vukic or Dinkic, whether it is better or worse Milosevic or Tadic's bill, I have no intention of talking about it, as I just want to draw attention to you – that through some things you can't cross. I fully understand the situation that is quite present in the work of public information funds, their main and responsible editors, and it can be described this way – a man interested in publishing some information comes, the editor-in-chief says that to be published you have to give so much and so much money, he does. The editor-in-chief then invites the other party to whom the information relates, so he says – if you don't give so much and so much money, I will publish that information in that dialectic and the kind of fluid of money, simple public opinion can be in a very unpleasant situation, so he can say – a year ago someone uploaded the inscription Bulevar Ratko Mladic, and in the meeting of his dear Olija Rehn, he says – well, you arrest Mladic, I don't care about him, and who he is and what he is. As before that was one situation for the hateful Ollie Rehn to be visited, but the one in the neighboring office called Javier Solana who bombed us. Now their investments are much more important than that button that he pressed and caused so many victims. Both of you, and you acting like you're fighting, and you're on the same path, because the boss is the same, I just have to draw attention not to the International Court of Justice, but to the European Court of Human Rights, since we're members of the Council of Europe, we've become at a time of emergency, and the state of emergency is evidence of a limitation of democracy, and then we're received that there is a Article 10. The European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, it is called freedom of expression, one right, Mr Bradic, which came out of freedom of thought, and freedom of thought means culturally, and artistic and scientific creation, which is preserved as sacred, which cannot be stopped. The next thing you know is freedom of expression. As part of that evolution, the freedom of the press came out, and only in the new generation of radio-television and now finally the Internet. Just so you know, Mr. Bradic, what includes being called freedom of expression in the opinion of your employers, your friends from the EU: Everyone has the right to freedom of expression (everyone means every living human being). This right includes the freedom to own your own opinion, Mr. Bradic. Every man is guaranteed to have his own opinion, the right to receive and communicate information, an idea without interference of public authority. Mr. Bradic, you are the public authority. You're forbidden to interfere. And regardless of the boundaries, Mr. Bradic, this member does not prevent states from requesting permits to work television, radio and cinema companies. And in 2003, when this Law on Public Information was passed, the great controversy was anyone, passing Article 14, inserting a legal person as the founder, and who could violate the human right of an individual, a natural person as the founder. What do you know? Article 10(2): Grounds for Article 10. The European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights have over 250 convictions and decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. What you're doing will not be found in any judgment to give you the right. What is central, not only for this freedom, but for everything that belongs to the human rights corps, listen well. Since the use of these freedoms entails responsibilities and responsibilities, it can be subject to formalities (it is an application), conditions, restrictions or penalties prescribed by law and necessary in a democratic society in the interest of national security (e, your limitations on whether they are in the interest of national security - are not, you are not interested in national security; you would sell everything just to remain in functions), territorial integrity (do you know what territorial integrity is; so you do not know where the state, where the borders are, you share Serbia in seven regions only to get money, EU access funds, nothing of which there is nothing) or public security (which public security, which you have prevented, you have brought to the riots). Criminal; this is the only authority on the globe where the mafia has its power. There used to be a situation where the government had some mob of its own, now it's turned around, the mob became the boss. You've heard what's written, from Milo Djukanovic and from these sweet-talking nicknames. Morals? You're protecting morale? Well, you're funding something that's immoral, not to mention that site of yours. Protect your reputation? Does this country have a reputation? Has this country had any dignity since you came to power? The rights of others? Preventing the disclosure of information received in confidence. Well, you can't whisper to each other at the government's meeting, because tomorrow the paper's coming out. Or to preserve the authority and impartiality of the judiciary. Does your intervention aim to fulfill what is democratic value? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Let me remind you, you used to say "expert in front of politics." What's the matter with you? There's no expertise anywhere? What kind of politics is this? That's scandalous what you're doing. Of course, Ollie Ren came to give support to his pulens. You step Serbia to the board, nothing has to be in Serbia, just finish the dirty work. You, what you're going to vote on, know, this is an obvious example of all the dirty jobs you've voted for and for which you're going to vote for a few more months.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24972	Since the time of the parliamentary group, the MP has used seven minutes and 57 seconds. Anyone else want a word? MP Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24973	We have proposed by amendment that article 7 be deleted. It's more complete and declassified to talk about amendments. In fact, this law, I will repeat it once more, allows for only one real amendment, which is to delete the whole law or to use the Serbian language -- the law needs to be torn up and thrown into the trash. Garbage is the only natural environment in this and this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24974	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, do the proposing representatives want the final word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Nebojsa Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24975	I would very much like to thank all of those proposals addressed to this proposal, which could contribute jointly to a good proposal and a good basis for the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Information. It is particularly important one of the particular things about which it seems to me, there was no dilemma, that certain needs for the adoption of such a law were respected to the extent that sanctions were discussed. So the MPs spoke of penalties, which for some were too high or unsustainable, but did not speak of the need for certain things to be passed by these amendments and amendments to the law. That's very important. At this point we are talking about that there are certain things in our public life, in our media, that should be sanctioned in a certain way, that the existing Public Information Act is not effective in the way it should be. That's the point of making these amendments and supplementing the law. What was most common in the discussions was the question of whether sanctions were directed at all kinds of journalism as a concept, to the asphyxiation of freedom of public words, and not at what was the essence of our intention, that sanctions were directed exclusively at violations of ethical and legal norms. But what is particularly important is to preserve from this same violation and possibly its victim, and the general public, and the profession itself. In that sense, I thank all those who contributed to this discussion, respecting that intention of the law, that is, our proposal. There have been, of course, discussions concerning pictures of the media, images of the culture. This is also important because we have also respected an important dimension that makes us as the Ministry of Culture behind the proposal, which is that our media should be a picture of our culture, and so many of the things we see in the media every day and that certain media are certainly not what we would like to be a picture of our culture, our relationship with the public, the relationship to something that is society and responsibility to this relationship. There were, of course, good examples, on the one hand, who sought answers to what they were and whether they were European practices. One example I'm going to give to this occasion, just to expand this discussion a little bit, not to view it as just some object that we attack or defend, and in fact we all have to try to affirm this thing together. There was this famous case for which the European Court of Human Rights ruled in favour of Princess Caroline of Monaco. It's "Caroline's Judgment" famous. For days, German media have been pressured by German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's federal government to appeal the European Court of Human Rights' verdict in Strasbourg, in connection with the so-called so-called "Streder". "Caroline's Judgment." There were written strong introductions, which discussed the black day for press freedom, the media in general had an appeal to the federal government, which was signed by 40 editors-in-chief of German media houses. What does "Caroline's Judgment" mean in practice? Perhaps today in Germany illustrates the best behavior of the media, tabloids, or so on. Let's say the voyeur's press, which has evolved in some way. Now, we would say, quite controlled, although in the first wave against the European Court of Human Rights' "Carolina" the European Court of Human Rights has stood up all the media, arguing that without the right to publish and take pictures of private life, numerous political and financial scandals in Germany would remain undetected, meanwhile, the consequences of this significant verdict from Strasbourg have started to be written about this more measured, even in more serious media. What's most important is that the losers in Caroline's Judgment are the only media that have developed voyeurism-type jobs, and we know very often, it's also trampled on human dignity. So what we're discussing here, I'd say, is a bill that should be respected precisely for these objectives. I also believe in these goals that I am talking about, along with MPs who believe that I also serve in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24976	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE CULTURE You have received amendments submitted by the MPs at the bill: Branimir Đokić, Saša Dujović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Gorica Mojović, Marina Ragus, Đorđe Milićić, Svetlana Martinović, Željko Tomić, Marina Tomman, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Marković, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazić, Aleksandra Jankovic, Saša Milenić, Radica Jocić, Snezana Stojanović-Plašić, Riza Halimi, Stojanka Petković, Nenad Prokić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Lidija Vukićić, Radica Šević, Radan Krasic, Miljević, Miljević, Milić, Miljan Krašić, Milojić, Lalić, Lalić, Lalić, Milić. Before we move to the search for the draft law in particular, I remind you that the Members of Parliament have withdrawn by written amendment: Saša Milenić to Articles 3, 59, 69, 72, 75 and Aleksandra Jankovic to Article 6(3), Article 6 of new point 17a, Article 8(2), Article 16 point 8, Article 16 point 11 and Article 19 paragraph 2. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before we begin the debate on the amendment to Article 1, I remind the MPs of the time remaining parliamentary groups and presidents or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups: PUPS has all the time available and the president and parliamentary groups, the parliamentary group of minorities also has all the time available, New Serbia has also used time for the authorised representative and the time of the parliamentary group, the LDP also has time for the authorised representative and the time of the parliamentary group, as well as the SPS-JS. In advance, Serbia has three minutes from the time of the parliamentary group, the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group has three minutes from the mandated representative and 13 minutes and 20 seconds from the parliamentary group, G17 plus has four minutes and 10 seconds for the authorised representative and a total time of 28 minutes and 48 seconds for the parliamentary group, the SRS has a time of 15 minutes for the authorised representative and a time of 15 minutes and 15 seconds, the ZES has 15 minutes for the authorised representative and 91 minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Branimir Djokić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24977	I submitted an amendment to Article 1, which I felt was to be completed. However, since I see that the government has already rejected this amendment, not only that amendment but the full amendments submitted by the representatives of the SRS, I will be very brief, because I don't think there is any point in expressing my opinion in the best interest. In what we have now received from the Government half an hour ago, we saw in haste that many amendments to certain fellow Members of the People's Parliament have been completely accepted, and that such amendments of the SRS have been rejected. I will now read, to respect this procedure, Article 1. I thought that it would change and read: 'This law, based on the principle that culture does not fall in the field of consumption, but represents one of the basic factors of social development, determines the general interest in culture, the way of achieving general interest in culture and the exercise of cultural activities, rights, obligations and responsibilities of the Republic of Serbia, autonomous provinces and municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade (hereinafter: a unit of local self-government) in culture, as well as conditions for the operation of all entities in culture. ''I thought it necessary for the law to define that culture has an enlightening role and does not fall within the area of classical consumption, but is a fundamental factor in the development of the people and the state and the protection of its freedoms and cultural identity. It was my amendment that was rejected and I don't know what else I could add since all the amendments to the SRS after what we got rejected. Probably, there'll be a chance to talk about it later. So much for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24978	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Djordje Milicevic. There's no answer for word. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanovic and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24979	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I want to talk about the amendment that the four of us in the DSS Group have submitted, because we think that this legislator, i.e. The Serbian government was not directed to the fact that there is a system law that was passed in 2006 and called the Law on Churches and Religious Communities. The law has its own section called cultural activity, and the law makes it very clear who are the bearers of cultural works for the church. It is very strange to me that the Ministry of Faith, or Minister Bogoljub Šijakovic, did not warn Mr. Bradic, as the holder of this law of this law, because everything we have submitted as a parliamentary group, and as regards sacral art, actually stems from the disrespect of this system law, which gave the churches and religious communities the status of legal persons, which apparently does not want to respect and bring them down to any other legal and physical persons, does not call them by its name. What we also noticed is that this law, in a very indirect way, promotes a monastic cultural ideology. In fact, you're trying to affirm cultural monasticism as a new comprehensive and binding, very binding, social ideology. Contrary to this model, you have to accept that there is and what is different, cultural and historical national models you promote under the name of a cultural pluralism that we have defined to follow, and without that cultural pluralism there is no ideological pluralism, and there is no democracy. Unfortunately, you represent what today in Serbia is called democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24980	The 6th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24981	Wanting to contribute economics to the work of the Assembly in discussing the law on culture, it will be better to remember, the problem is in the distance from the microphone. The contribution of economics to the debate on the law on culture on behalf of the G17 Group of MPs plus I want to give a unique explanation not only of this amendment but of the other amendments, as well as of the amendments submitted by colleagues and colleagues from this parliamentary group. Namely, all of them to one are the result of a discussion with representatives of the civil sector and cultural institutions organised in the context of public hearing of the law on culture and are the result of the intention to show public debate as a significant source of information relevant to the legislative will in the process of passing laws in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The largest number of these amendments is the literal transfer of the proposal, ideas, recommendations, thinking that could be heard there either with the elementary technical and lexical editorial. On this occasion, I would like to thank again, on behalf of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for all the cultural and civil sector workers who participated in this public debate, and in particular thanks to the representatives of the proposings who respected all these proposals and presented fully anticipated co-operation on the implementation of the common objectives which, among other things, are declaring and protecting.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24982	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanović - Plavsic. There's no answer for word. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. Does anyone want a word? Excuse me, Mr. Riza, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24983	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, with my amendment, I have tried to complete some of my obligations that the Ministry should have on the issue of the culture of national minorities, given the situation which is presently, and it is very unfavourable. I also point out when it comes to culture and education that there is a considerable difference between the current situation that we have in this region in Vojvodina, where minorities have more institutions, institutions dealing with these specific areas within this collective minority rights corps. It is a completely different situation when it comes to minorities in other parts, and especially here when it comes to the position of Albanians in these three municipalities of the Presevo Valley, where other institutions in the area of culture do not exist except for the homes of the minority culture. In general, cultural activities have been very reduced, as during a very long period of performances of different associations, theatres and other cultural institutions have come from Pristina and most of these needs have been met in this way. The situation since 1999/2000. the years it's completely interrupted and we're now in a situation that either they're in minimum or there's no cultural activity at all. This requirement to make further efforts in the recovery, reconstruction and protection of cultural goods and, in general, the institutions of minority culture in this area, and in the whole of the area outside Vojvodina, require additional measures and additional engagements that the Ministry must have in order to have cultural activity here as well. The current situation is really unfavourable, not to say catastrophic. I'm telling you, in the Preshevo municipality, there's almost no cultural activity. Those earlier cultural and artistic associations had cut off their activities in some long time. In a long time, no theatre play is shown there. What's on the amateur level doesn't have the proper support, and we're not talking about institutions that would be a little more serious about promoting, preserving or in some way reconstructing this situation that is under the grip of all of these events that we've had, how the destruction of the former socialist system, so the conflicts that were in this area, it's absolutely abandoned and are not capable of existing cultural homes in these three municipalities to deal more seriously with this problem. With this amendment, and possibly with amendments from the minority group, the point is that this law is more in line with the law on national councils, where it is trying a little closer to establishing the obligations that must also be made through the basic law on culture from the law on national councils and what is the area of protection of the rights and freedom of national minorities. I wouldn't owe you any longer on this subject. Mostly the point of this amendment and the amendments that follow there from a group of minorities are absolutely directed towards bringing the basic law on culture more into line with the law on national councils in order to protect minority rights in the area of culture on a higher level than in the present period, and in order for the situation as it is, in my opinion, very difficult, for Albanians in this area to finally begin in new circumstances gradually to change and to lead to some normal situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24984	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stojanka Petkovic. No one answered for the word. The 8th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nenad Prokic. The word has an MP, Mr. Nenad Prokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24985	Although this amendment has been rejected, it remains illogical as to why the law establishes the existence of bookmaking rather than, say, filmmaking - to say it incorrectly, in order to make it clearer. I guess it's because Mr. Hamovic at the ministry paid attention to it because it's what he does. I'm guessing that in cinema and other audio-visual activity, he didn't have anyone to pay attention to, so there's nothing in the law about piracy and other things that are really a big problem. It remains unregulated by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24986	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8th of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanović-Plasic. There's no answer for word. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Vukicevic submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24987	I would like to say, before I explain this amendment submitted by the Serbian Radical Party, that what we said in the principle debate of the Cultural Law has actually been made true. So those two sessions that were to be held, which were supposed to be meaningful, where representatives of all associations and public institutions in Serbia came from, were not accepted. Of course, the ruling coalition will say that they have been accepted, but again, as I said then, so I am sure of it now - something is only accepted which is minor to this law; the proposals of minorities and no amendments of the Serbian Radical Party have been accepted, which has indeed tried to correct this bill on culture in some way, have been accepted. It is only once again proof that there is absolutely no co-operation, regardless of whether it is well-intentioned, and surely it was well-intentioned. Just for that reason, here's why I'm going to explain and, of course, let me say what we really wanted in Article 8. Well, let's just let the public know, so there's no echo. The cultural workers should be absolutely reconciled - that here the more radical changes, in order to improve the bill on culture, which needs to be translated into the Law on Culture, are gone. So, given that they appear in point 20, in the Strategy for Development of Culture of the Republic of Serbia, at point 2) of amateur action in culture, we suggest that a new point 9 (amateur action in culture) should also be added in Article 8 after 8). The existing points 9) and 10) become points 10) and 11. I also believe that cultural amateurism deserves adequate representation in this law, given that amateurism is translated into professionalism, and we are witnessing everyone who deals with culture that it is true. So, given that amateurism is very important, he should be in culture, since in the current strategy he has already been proposed as such, he should remain that way. Because the specificity of this activity in practice and the application of certain provisions of other laws regulates the issue of amateur activity in culture, i.e. appropriate measures are adopted - in the area of funding and all other measures that are relevant. In this way, if amateurism were to get its special place in this law, cultural and artistic creation would be valued and it would be recognised as cultural activity, because it is specific, in relation to other activities in culture, so of course there should be treatment in this law. I would really urge you to accept this for a simple reason that not everyone can be professionals, not everyone can have the status or professional performers, or professional theatres, and since through my acting century, working century, I have been President of the Amateur Theatre Commission many times, I have seen perhaps much better shows of amateurs than even professionals. So I think amateurs really need to have their proper place in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24988	Thank you, Mrs. Vukicevic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenić. There's no answer for word. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. The word has Dr. Nikola Lazic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24989	We believe that the legislator has overlooked, i.e. forgotten extremely important jobs that are undoubtedly cultural activities, and this is about sacral art and traditional art crafts. Of course, with this amendment, we are trying to correct the failure of the legislator. If this amendment is not accepted, in fact this government will send a message that the general interest in culture is not encouraging sacral art. In this case, one very important question can be asked, which is -- what argument Serbia has when we ask that the Orthodox Serb heritage be protected, unless the state requesting it recognises religious heritage as part of its own cultural identity. As a result, this amendment has a much wider context than the legal proposal itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24990	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. There's no answer for word. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Aleksandra Jankovic has tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of the 8a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. Here you go, Mrs Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24991	I will talk about this amendment because I see from the reports that the Government has not accepted the amendment, for the reason it says - the amendment is not accepted because Article 11. The draft law constitutes a provision laying down in principle the way in which the cultural programmes and projects are financed or co-financed, and which is further regulated by the provisions of Chapter IV of the Law. On the contrary, I think that this article 11 is said to - that funding or co-financing of cultural programmes will be carried out through public competitions, and Article 2 - that the competition referred to in Article 1 will be announced for each subsequent financial year, no later than 1 October of the current year. Article 75, which should define the area of financing more precisely, says Article 1 - at least one annual ministry, or other founders, discuss public competitions to collect proposals for financing or co-financing projects in culture, as well as projects of artistic, professional and scientific research in culture. As far as I'm concerned, setting a date, October 1st is much more precise than this "at least once a year", and in some sense it's contradictory: either at least once a year or by October 1st. So this argument is not true either, first because Article 11 is more precise, although it is indeed in the principle section, and Article 75 in the head that needs to regulate the specific area of funding.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24992	Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milletic Mihajlovic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The government has accepted this amendment. The 14th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. The word is Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24993	The essence of this amendment is that, practically, in Article 14 paragraph 3 behind the words "from the position of the 1st member" are deleted "confirmed by the Government" and "confirmed by a special law". Since it is a very important newspaper, which, as one of the special ways of encouraging artistic creation, also provides for recognition for the top-notch contribution of national culture in the form of a lifelong monthly monetary income to an artist, i.e. an expert in culture, which is paid out of the budget, I believe that closer terms and ways of granting recognition must be clearly and transparently defined by a special law, which should first be declared by the Supreme Legislator, so the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and not by the Executive Authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24994	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic, Donka Banović and Svetlana Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24995	The DSS MPs have submitted an amendment to Article 14, and the title above Article 14 is recognition for a top-notch contribution to national culture. So, this member is really talking about it, and in some ways this amendment of ours is bound to the previous amendment by Mrs. Jankovic, where we are practically position 3, where we are said to be closer to the terms and ways of granting the recognitions set out in Article 1 of this article are determined by the Government, and our amendment consists of adding a decimal after the words "Government" but on the proposal of the National Council for Culture. We think it is good that the National Council for Culture, whose formation and composition are also foreseen by this bill, is a very competent body and that it should not be left to the government to make that decision without valid proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24996	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The word has Mrs Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24997	If I exceed the time allowed for the amendment, please count my time as a representative of the parliamentary group or as a parliamentary group. Why do I think I might be out of time? Because I think the issue of forming a national cultural council is one of the important issues of this law and one of the important newspapers, otherwise the system law on culture. Of course, I have submitted an amendment to the text proposed in the law, but since I see in the government's report that the amendment of Parliamentarians Snezana Stojanović-Plasic and Sasa Milenic was accepted, the only thing I believe is that this amendment by my fellow Members, MPs, who have been accepted, has been improved in relation to the text set out in the basic proposal, is the number of members of the National Council. Because all participants and public debates and otherwise in public were indeed a large number of objections to the number of members of the National Council. Everything else is the same as in the basic text of the bill, and I find it very problematic. Why? The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has so far had the opportunity to form the ground. select a number of national councils: in the field of education, in the area of higher education, in the judiciary, in the RRA, etc. No national council... Am I talking or is someone else here talking? [[Zagor in the O.R.]] No national council has been formed on a proposal exclusively by the Government. All national councils, look at the Educational Council, look at the advice of higher education, all the others I mentioned and who I didn't, at least we voted for a few of these councils, were formed by empowering the National Assembly to make their proposals. Of course, with my amendment, I also envisioned the process of proposal and time, and how many candidates can be given for the national council and of course the Serbian Parliament would eventually decide on that. So, this amendment, now it should be an amendment that is actually on the government's proposal, missing exactly that, that kind of democracy. Furthermore, I must now speak in relation to the amendment that the government has accepted, and not in relation to this proposal, although my amendment means identical proposings, just not in this way as my fellow MPs do, what is further problematic? For me, it is really problematic if of the 19 members of the council, excluding, of course, representatives of the Serbian Academy of Sciences, the University of Art and National Minorities and those directly proposed by the Government, we only have two representatives from the institutions and six representatives from the association, four from representative and two from the others. You know what, this is still a state ministry. It is primarily by the existing, and also by new law, tasked with caring for and achieving public interest in the field of culture, and it is primarily determined and defined through the work of culture institutions formed by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or local unit of local self-government. I do not see the need for six representatives of the association, a team before Mr. Minister, and we all, in any way, to be involved in culture, to know very well that of the eighteen artistic associations, if we are talking about representative, which are regulated, which are actually envisaged as representative of the existing Act on the self-execution of artistic activity, at least fourteen have no support of its members. Then what happens if we adopt this amendment as proposed by the Government? We're going to get proposals for a national council from the management of art associations, and these leaderships, I said in at least 14 cases of 18, maybe more than 14, he chose a very small number of art associations. To illustrate, the Association of Fine Arts of Serbia reportedly has, according to their claim, a thousand and a half members. Their own report in Bilten states that the management of the association has chosen 80 present in the Assembly. The Association of Drama Artists of Serbia also has several hundred members. A few dozen have chosen leadership, and Mr. Minister is a member of the association, so he could say when was the last time he attended some assembly of the Association of Drama Artists, especially in the election. I mean, this law respects the extent of the art association, and that artists themselves, every honour of exceptions, and I said there are several real exceptions when it comes to art associations, but also artists themselves, as many prominent artists, significant artists for Serbia's culture, are not even members of the association, even less engaged. We, in fact, do these leaderships, so that I may not be somewhat devious, to their professional services, which are also well bureaucratized, we leave them to offer us six members of the National Council. The institutions of culture, and there's another problem here, writes only in this accepted amendment from the director's office. Why the director? Why just the director? Why wouldn't an excellent conservative, who wasn't the director, be a member of the National Council, not the director of the facility? Why don't some regular director, who's not the director, be on the national council, why just the director? Which director, which facility? The ones whose founder is the Republic. And whose founders are others? I believe that all institutions of Serbia's culture should make their proposals and have their representatives in the national council, in the way I suggested one to be from the field of protection of cultural goods, one from library activity, one from the stage music, one from cultural and educational, which is cultural centres, film centres, music, galleries, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24998	The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic and Sasa Milenic. The government has accepted the amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nenad Prokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Excuse me, Mr. Radenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u24999	We felt the need as a parliamentary group to simply respond to the reasons made by the Minister and the Government for the amendments we have submitted. We do not all feel that we have the same treatment as MPs, because our amendments are being rejected with one single explanation: that the same amendments have been accepted by any other MP. It is in most cases so, you have probably had the opportunity to see everyone, because it was more logical to accept in the same text of the amendment and ours, not to be rejected and that our amendment is considered rejected, and that the amendment of another MP from another political party is accepted, especially when it comes to members of the party from which the minister is from, purely out of some respect for all, because we are all equal here and we feel that this is really unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25000	Yeah, it's that long-term dilemma that can't be solved. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The word is Mrs. Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25001	I don't have a dilemma. What comes from the DSS won't be accepted by the G17, especially what we suggested about sacral art. So by analyzing the bill, what we've seen is that the church is not a subject in culture. Churches and religious communities do not belong to identified legal identities that can establish cultural institutions, they are classified in that category - other legal and physical persons. This is contrary to the provisions of the law that we have reminded you of for a long time, the Law on Churches and Religious Communities. Churches cannot set up, according to this bill, cultural institutions, they are not funded or co-financed from the people's register. Some other things can come from the budget of the Ministry of Culture, Church and sacral art, therefore, what is the largest part of Kosovo and Metohija, I cannot. What is interesting and why we have submitted this amendment as a parliamentary group of DSS, in my explanation I have received a reply from the minister that the amendment between us from the Democratic Party of Serbia is not accepted because the amendment of the MPs Snezana Jovanovic-Plasic and Sasa Milenic to this same member. It's about setting up national councils. When I turned this amendment around, of course it didn't surprise me, but also what our amendment is part of, who is all part of this national council. I saw that they completely left out any representatives and Serbian Orthodox churches, and other churches and religious communities. So it's impossible to refuse the amendment that we've proposed, with an explanation that you've made an amendment that completely erases. What we considered was to change the number, to have three members from the Serbian Orthodox Church, because according to the 2002 census, the only valid last census, 85% of citizens said they were Orthodox religions, and the other two members of the council were from traditional churches and religious communities, which we think is fine. However, you completely deleted them. Please don't tell me that it's a public interest for which you here should represent the people of Serbia, that is, of course, the interest of G17 plus and those who do not want the Serbian Orthodox Church and no other church and religious community to exist and to be mentioned anywhere in culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25002	Same amendment, Miss Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25003	Mr. Novakovic, you know I can't talk about someone else's, I can only talk about my amendment, but I use the time I have as an authorised representative of the SRS. Indeed, we will deal with the secret art in Serbia a little bit more, trying to put pressure on you, Mr. Bradic, to answer this very question that has just been asked you through something that is not a dilemma, but simply a sad, loud expression of the terrible truth. In KiM, there is concrete material evidence of how old this country is, what this nation's spine looks like, where we rise from and where we go back. Perhaps everyone who, conditionally speaking, wants to rely only on their own racio will now say that slowly, but surely I'm slipping into the epic, but I think that especially you, Mr. Bradic, know what psychological heritage means for the survival of a nation. We and how we are trying to unlock the intention of a certain piece of the international community, which, on its agenda, finally has a spiritual occupation of the Serbian people, and it seems to me also through the UN tribunal's verdicts and certain expert analyses to carry out and a certain kind of, conditioned to say, genocide over reason. What's also very amazing is our country's position on all of this. Tell me, Mr. Minister, what is our cultural and spiritual heritage? Where is it and how is it promoted? What about our medieval culture and our medieval art? Where and how is it promoted? If we look at the UN tribunal's verdicts and certain hearings, and even a monster verdict, or only a hearing when it comes to the famous genocide suit, you know what the saddest fact is, Mr. Bradic? Of course, you didn't sign it as your mistake, or your guilt, it's something that's inherited, but what you're doing right now definitely has your signature. Our expert, therefore, state team, not any legal team or team that helps defend someone suspected of war crimes, was about to respond to an expert who calls a good part of the international community engaged, but also very powerful, because it has a very strong connection with certain American intelligence structures. The gentleman's name is Andras Ridlmeyer. Our national team prepared only one night for the destruction of cultural heritage. Do you know, Mr. Bradiche, how he was getting ready? By searching the Internet for certain information that they might be able to come out of front of Mr. Ridlmeyer. Now, most likely, the Serbian public should know where this country is going and whose interests it is carrying out, but in the first place, the SRS parliamentary group, and then in the last place I, want to know how it is possible for these things to happen? As members of a team that assists the defence of one of the suspects in front of a political institution such as The Hague tribunal, we also have experience with Mr Andras Ridlameir. At no time did we have the support of the state, which should make sure that the true heritage, the real history, the worst possible, forged, because they wrote it powerful and own, put enough lead on our wings, that we didn't take off from this climate, we didn't see it, we didn't have enough lead on our wings. The state was simply in this sense completely gone, completely deaf and completely blind. Unlike us, other countries, I don't want to mention them now, they were there as well. Teams of top experts campaigned in front of all the world's international institutions. The answer on our part was identical to the response that occurred after 2000, and as regards aggression in 99, it also concerns the pogrom in 2004, and unfortunately, it will concern some other pogroms. Because as we have the opportunity to hear and see based on these legal proposals, the only conclusion, Mr. Bradic, that can be drawn from all of this is that there is obviously no part of Serbia's proudest history, where certain secular dynasties have left a legacy for generations after, for those generations that will rise in such a dreary time to such an inheritance. History is filled with such examples, likely of those who opted for an earthly, rational Serbia, saying they were funny, but based on that legacy, many battles that turned the history flow. We'd like to know, and we're not suggesting that we enter any extremes, that you determine what a Serbian national and spiritual culture is, and in what way, Mr. Bradic, you think that you protect it first, and then present it to the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25004	Miss Ragush, is this the time of the authorized representative? Marina Ragush: Yes. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The 16th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic, who has a word. Here you go, Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25005	I just don't know why my colleagues from different MP clubs are surprised. I'm surprised to you, Mr. Dejan Radenkovic, that you're amazed at what's happened to you now with the reasons for the amendments. We're from New Serbia and the DSS and how we're used to it, and generally we're from the opposition. And then I ask you, will you really stay restrained? I don't think it's good for you to remain abstentions to this kind of violation and expression of the will of the people and of the MPs who very thoroughly submit these amendments. Why are you surprised, colleague Milice Vojić-Markovic? G 17 has, slightly speaking, animosity to everything that is sacral and in this process of desacralising society does not matter to them that in Serbia there are 85% of citizens belonging to the Serbian Orthodox Church. It is important to support various Quirias, LGBT groups, exhibitions where the main achievement is, and all by choice by the assistant minister, Mr Dimitrijevic, the stoner of the patriarch of Serbian Mr Paul. Why are you surprised, Mrs. Ragush? Mr. 17 merely expresses the confidence of his leader, who long ago said that the quest for KiM is actually an expression of collective madness. Why would they behave differently here, on the basis of some national strategy in culture, than they do in general? We have tried to put in reasonable amendments and that practically this national cultural council foresees something that would be logical in any normal country, which is that the relationship between representatives of churches and religious communities in the national council must correspond to the percentage of Serbian citizens who are freely committed to church membership, or to another religious community. In my day, though, in that old Parliament, I asked that everyone who was baptized raise their hand...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25006	Time, Mrs. Jankovic. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25007	It's interesting that you're interrupting me on this particular question, but okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25008	The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Zeljko Tomic and Svetlana Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25009	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16. The proposal for a law on culture and so that a member is elected from the ranks of the Association of Amateurs of Serbia in the National Council for Culture. Namely, the Union of Amateurs of Serbia is a large amateur association and simply a strategy for the development of our culture cannot be imagined without development and investment in amateur activities. All those people, the top artists, who have passed through our culture and who pass through fame and present our culture, were themselves once amateurs, but cultural and amateur societies in our country exist almost in every village in Serbia and I think it is necessary, Mr. Minister, from the ranks of this association to be one representative of the National Council for Culture. We all know the problems and difficulties that cultural and artistic societies face today in the territory of all Serbia. We know that they have problems going to various events, where they come most from with the great prizes they have won in various competitions and across our country, both Europe and the world. And that this work is and how important it tells us that each end of us has its own specificities. They also cherish the traditions of their end, their homeland, and all that makes our culture. I urge you once again, Mr. Minister, to consider this amendment and to choose a representative from the Amateur Union of Serbia as a member of the National Council for Culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25010	Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25011	Mr. Chairman, the presidency, Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, honourable MPs, on behalf of the PUPS, I have submitted four amendments. In connection with this amendment, I would like to say that we tried to contact Mr. Minister or the representatives of the Ministry on three occasions and to explain ourselves on the basis of the instructions you made to the parliamentary groups. We didn't do it, but on this occasion I want to say that with the right number of amendments apply to the national council and that is why a better solution was needed than what you accepted. I think Mrs Mojovic's closest solution is the MP's. If we'd had that meeting, we could've probably found a better solution. We think there's a missing contact and a deal you've offered, I don't know for what reason. I'd like to ask you one more thing, if you had in mind one amendment to accept the proposal of the Duke's Photomatrix Union, regarding their status to be incorporated into the law. I think it's prepared and it'll be accepted from your side. We will not report any more about these amendments we have submitted. In the end, I have to say, we're going to support the law on culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25012	Representatives Svetlana Stojanovic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted to the 17th amendment. The word is Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25013	Article 17 discusses the tasks and tasks of the National Cultural Council. We have submitted the amendment because we believe that the Council for Culture should have more specific and greater competences than those proposed by the proposer in this article, and that it gives an opinion on the cultural policy conducted by the Government, that it can also order scientific analyses of the situation in culture, that it can propose measures and forms of inter-resorial co-operation, to monitor and assess the work of expert committees of the Ministry of Culture, to give an assessment of the draft law in the field of culture before these plans are referred to the Government. As to the reasons why the amendment is rejected, the promoter says that the amendment is not accepted because there is no legal basis that the body formed by the National Assembly gives an assessment of the draft law as a binding act for the government prior to the adoption of it. It's probably clear to the lawyers, but I'm not a lawyer and I don't understand why. It is that a body can choose a congregation, for example. The National Educational Council also sends a report to the National Assembly once a year on its work, sometimes calling on the chairman of the Education Committee to attend the sessions, but it is in principle merely a body formed by the Assembly. I don't see any reason why an institution formed by this law, this national council on culture, cannot give its opinion on the draft laws in this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25014	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The word is Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25015	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 17. Proposal for a law on culture. Article 17 refers to Council tasks. The amendment proposes to add after point 3) a new point 4) which reads: "The Council participates in the development of a proposal for a culture development strategy and gives an assessment of its implementation." What makes it necessary to accept this amendment? For the simple reason that the National Council recognises prominent academics, artists, experts, university professors, official representatives of the Association in the field of culture, and they are most invited to participate in the development of a proposal for a culture development strategy. The creation of a strategy must be put first in the Council's tasks, not to leave the job to the government of the Republic of Serbia. The government can only give consent to the Council's proposal. Any other solution that leaves out the National Council for Culture in the creation of a strategy will cause damage to culture in Serbia, will expose it to erosion, degradation, will lead to the fact that soon we will see nothing in Serbian culture that points to national tradition and national culture. On the contrary, the cultural values that will promote and which unfortunately promote this government, past the National Council on Culture, will be, among other things, promoting a gay parade or "The Parade of Pride", as it was baptized to conceal itself, to prove to Europe that we did not get Schengen in vain. We are witnessing how much space is given to the media, while let's say the Serbs in Strpc, who are without electricity, without water, without adequate health care and at the edge of life and death, can see a contribution of about 20 seconds. After all, I am convinced that Serbia will know that September 20th answers in downtown Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25016	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25017	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting for article 27 to ask one question, since we have five minutes to 1800 hours left, and Mrs. Kolundzija has already arrived, is it your intention to interrupt the session, to begin the next item of the agenda, because our authorised promoter is not here, so that we know how to prepare ourselves? Since it's common for you to be doing it at this hour, I suppose it would be your turn to let us know that we know how to behave.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25018	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The chairman-in-Office, Mrs Comic, informed the Assembly that we would be working on a lengthy basis, which will be on the agenda at 6pm. So, Mrs. Kolundji's arrival always causes one living in the O.R., and we're glad, and I think I answered, there's no need in the day to vote to plead. Thank you for understanding. The 17th amendment was submitted by Sasa Milenic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. The word is Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25019	This amendment provides that Article 17 paragraph 1 point 4 at the beginning of the text before the word "proposes" is to be added "on the basis of agreement with representative art associations". Since two major public hearings were organised within the Committee on Culture and Information session, I did not come up with this because it occurred to me to harass the Government of Amendments or to be harassed by the rejection of my amendments, but in agreement with representatives of the association, such as the Association of Fine Arts of Serbia, particularly the President of the Management Board, Predrag Ciric, who himself felt the need for an amendment to solve this problem. Among other things, I don't know if it's relevant to you, but the Association of Fine Arts of Serbia was founded in 1919, gathering about 2,200 members of professional artists in the field of fine art, and within the framework of the ULUS, there are around 600 independent artists. I think their views should still be taken into account. The amendment was made in agreement with the Union of Serbian Artists Union, which brings together actors, musicians and ballet players in the institutions of culture, Mr Nenad Marinkovic and Serbian Union of Artists (SINGLUS), Mr Vladno Dujevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25020	National MP Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 17th amendment. There's no answer for word. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The word has Mrs Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25021	I listened carefully, and I also read out the amendments my fellow MPs gave. I am sorry that more are not accepted, except for the amendment given by Mr. Dejan Radenkovic, which refers to the Council's participation in the development of a proposal for a cultural development strategy and gives an assessment of the implementation. The same or similar amendment was given by Radisa Ilic. As far as I know from the Rules of Procedure, if amendments are similar in essence to the one that was first submitted, I'm not sure, it seems to me that it is, or that it reflects best... So I don't think there's any reason here to see who put up with it, but simply what it means. I am sorry that some of these proposed amendments have not been adopted, because it seems to me that if we already form a national cultural council, we should allow it to give an opinion, suggestions, given that rarely what it determines or decides, to a greater number of what it represents, which is important for the work of institutions and for the entire cultural activity. In that sense, I have submitted an amendment which, of the 12 sublegal acts to be adopted under this law by the Minister, or the Ministry, to at least three of his opinions, not to decide, not to establish, but to give an opinion, yes, and a national council. It refers to an opinion on the proposal for a list of art, programming and professional jobs to be carried out under this law on a three-year basis. It is about criteria and criteria for selecting projects to be financed, not what will be financed, but only criteria and criteria. What I see the government has adopted is that the Council is giving its opinion on obtaining the status of cultural institutions of national importance, which I believe is elemental. If there is already a national council, that very good solutions to this law relating to the status of national institutions, that at least in this respect we have the opinion of the National Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25022	Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Prokic. The word is Mr Prokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25023	I suggested that this strategy be extended to 10 years. That's denied. Mr. Colakovic's proposal was accepted to extend to four. Four is one very political number. I think that at least in culture we can avoid it, especially if we are a society in transition and I think that one long-term strategy, which is absent in all other segments of society, could be found at least in that political parties are capable, perhaps one of the few things they are able to do together, to construct this society's strategy for 10 years in advance. Because the crisis in society, a 20-year-old, was followed by a crisis of a cultural model, which in the end was neither a cultural model nor a Serbian one. Indeed, a much greater ambition was needed, especially as a transition society that wants to join the EU. We were supposed to formulate a clearer, cultural law belongs, and it must be, in order to invite all other participants in other segments of society to accept and monitor this cultural policy and the cultural model. I don't think number four is good. He was better than number three, because then he's making one nomenclature political, going back to the election, taking care of it and handing the staff over to someone else, and this kind of thing matches the government, and it has even a shorter fact than the one of three.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25024	Member of the 19th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. The word is Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25025	To a large extent, I could agree with my colleague, Nenada Prokic, but I went to some minimum goal, so I felt that the strategy should be adopted for a period of at least five years. Since it is still a matter of achieving cultural policy at some state level, it is necessary that a strategy for the development of the culture of the Republic of Serbia be adopted by the Assembly, it is the first part of the amendment, as the most legislative body, and on a proposal from the competent ministry of culture. So one reverse process from what you're doing right now, which is that executive power is passing laws to the legislative authority. Because only this kind of process would really ensure that the culture development strategy, which contains the basic settings of cultural development, strategic directions and instruments of cultural development, realisation plans and criteria, indicators and procedures of evaluation, is truly comprehensive, representative of the entire population of Serbia and in terms of achieving a general national interest in culture. As the bill introduces the institution of the National Council for Culture, whose role is particularly related to the establishment of cultural policy in Serbia over a long period of time, the period should be at least five years. Why? Because such adoption of a strategy would remove the possibility of creating a cultural policy to the extent of one or more parties, so that, with the end of the exercise of power by one party, there is no automatic change or shift in the strategy of cultural development. The adoption of a five-year strategy would allow all parties to overcome, at least here, and create a cultural policy model for all Serbian citizens, regardless of party membership.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25026	Members of the 19th amendment were submitted by MPs Miletic Mihajlovic and Natasa Jovanovic in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25027	I wasn't fast enough before, although I'm a little luckier than speed, I would just like to rely on my colleagues, Nenada Prokic, and Aleksandra Jankovic. More than a little bit of need is because I think it's about the existence of something that should be a consensus, that something called depolitisation is finally done in the area of what culture is, that the pedestal of cultural resuscitation or living within such sensitive areas is put in place by people who deserve it in part, and that the parties move somewhere on the margins in terms of such divergence in relation to the developed cultural policy or cultural development. So a while ago, I asked perhaps a more rhetorical question, although the answer is quite clear to me. I would like Mr. Bradic to share his opinion with us -- what is national culture and where is Serbian culture going, given the proposed solutions, and perhaps even more concrete, given that the fact that in cultural institutions in Serbian society? Some time ago, we talked about the fact that at some point there were faces and people who confirmed themselves in part and resigned to certain positions. I specifically talked about the case of Mr. Tasovac, who was in the position of the head of the Belgrade Philharmonic, and to tell you quite frankly, it was an unbearable fact to me that this man could not have fought for the existence of members of the Belgrade Philharmonic Philharmonic, and that these people were making money for their existence by playing on rafts and on certain manifestations which you will admit are not part of their first and primary area. Such a situation is almost completely destroyed in other institutions of national culture which, even least said, are almost completely destroyed, without even showing in any further period an indication of something that should be at least rising from that ash. On the contrary, I've had enough freedom to say and express my concern about the way you and your resources operate in this area. You have not given us hope that Serbian culture will indeed take that position and place that belongs to it. We may not be the best in this world, but we sure as hell aren't the worst. We may not have many examples to talk about, only to talk about, but we do have a really solid number of bright examples that are put on the margins of historical, worldly and Serbian memory for unknown reasons. We don't understand why and we may be clear, but we want to finally get that answer out of you. What's completely inappropriate is that we didn't get a concrete answer from you at any point. We have been having a public debate for several days and in the means of public information, wherever we are and wherever that possibility is provided, trying to start certain thinking and really do the most specific problems. Indeed, without gloves, we talked about monopolies, for example, in the media space in Serbia, about the direct interference of foreign countries through their "diplomatic missions". I don't mean to be insulting, but call me because they do everything, just not diplomacy, at least in that classic sense of the word. So we've instructed a variety of examples, let's say examples of the interference of US Ambassador William Montgomery in creating a media space. We're under the impression that it's not even over. We also have the impression that certain already recognizable forces from that international scene are involved in our culture. We want to hear it from you at last, but you didn't look back at everything we talked about at the very end of the debate in the details of the public information law, not even in one segment, but at all what we talked about, and they were the influences of very strange capital, not controversial businessmen, not tycoon, but criminals and criminal groups. Unfortunately, that's what we expected from you, as I said, because it would look like a chronicle of announced death, because anyone who spoke publicly about it didn't go well. There are some people who want to leave a mark for some generations that come after us, because this time that we're given, it shouldn't be the time that we're going to monopolize but that we're going to prepare in the best possible way for the generations to inherit us. Say, Mr. Bradic, what have you prepared for generations to come to Serbia when it comes to culture. I'd like to hear about the very area of information, because you owe me that answer, I expected you to say at least one sentence a little harder. I won't stop, I promise you, until I get concrete answers to these specific issues and specific topics that are clearly being avoided, because it is precisely these centres that are able to manage Serbia and Serbia that are their private property. Let's go one step further. Since I am worthy of following all that the executive power in Serbia does, it is among other things the function of the MP, and it is the supervision of the work of the ministries. At one point I asked you a specific question, and I would really like the public in Serbia to know about it. It's a centre for investigating war crimes against the Serb people. It's a very likely centre to be talked about more rarely. The area itself is an area that the state probably doesn't even want to think about, because it's about crimes against Serbs. It is very likely that the public in Serbia would find out another fact, and that you, Mr. Bradic, do not know how many innocent Serbs were injured in Srebrenica in the period 1992-1995. I'd like to hear that information from you. Unfortunately, I suppose not. I'll tell you, 3,028. And not to mention all those suffering Serbs that are not spoken of, that I am not talking about that in Serbia, in the metropolis, in Belgrade, there is no, Mr Bradic, unfortunately mentioning houses to all innocent Serbs during the last wars. So, there is not one place where either of us will lose, and regardless of political or other color, write something in a book of memories, put down some kind of flower somewhere, and let Greeks, Jews and any other people who and how they keep their sacrifice as a reminder of the future, with pride and pain say that there is a memorial of houses in Belgrade where we counted all innocent victims. I'd like you to tell me now that there's going to be a project or that the state is going to initiate something like that. I'm afraid that's the answer we won't hear from you. The Centre for War Crimes Research against Serbs has worked uninterrupted for several years. The projects were mostly the same. It always increased that number that was being discovered, the tombs that were being discovered... (President: Mrs. Ragush, since your time is up, do you perhaps want anything from the time of the parliamentary group? This is my time for authority? A little more time, I'll end up in a few sentences. (President: You had 8.5 minutes, so that part is over, it's already nine minutes. Then the time of the parliamentary group, just to finish the thought. Thank you. What we had the opportunity to hear, and I guess I won't have much time, and I want to leave room for my colleagues to say by which, is that the Commission for Archival Action, which in July-August 2008 considered projects that will be implemented in 2009, did not make a positive statement about the project of the Association of Serbs from Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Centre for the Research of Crimes against the Serbian People, and the centre was left without sufficient material resources to continue its work. You know what's surprising? What the director of this centre, in fact, the Serbian public should know, Mr. Milivove Ivanišević, who is the signator of the most professional publications and who appreciates that part of the international public that is signed as Mr. Chomsky and Edward Herman, a certain group of Czech intellectuals, did not come across a good score in our resolution ministry, i.e. within the framework of the Commission's work assessment. In the same way, the same methodology has worked for years. What the commission answered very often is, Mr Bradic, that's what scares me, the Hague tribunal was able to answer that same gentleman when it came to victims in Srebrenica and the truth in Srebrenica. Or perhaps the reason for giving up the project is that Mr. Milivove Ivansevic is the head of the investigation team for the defence of Dr. Radovan Karadzic. So the public in Serbia needs to know this, that the state is making a difference, that there's no point in what's in the verdicts. Mr. Bradic, what it says in judgments will be our history, and it is, unfortunately, a falsified national Serbian history, through which the bloodstains pronounce us the Nazis of modern times. This is the state's response to every attempt to stand in the way of something called the end of Serbian history and the public in Serbia must see this face of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25028	National MPs Donka Banovic, Svetlana Stojanovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25029	MPs from different parliamentary groups have noted that this proposal is highly unusual for the strategy to be adopted for a three-year period. Usually projects or some programs and plans can take three years, but not a strategy. The strategy is usually a comprehensive long-term document and usually in the strategy you have certain phases when a cross-section is made and estimated how much is done in which area. For example, a poverty reduction strategy for the Republic of Serbia was adopted in 2002. In any case, the strategy does not have a period of three years. There are therefore different periods of evaluation or evaluation as far as has been reached or achieved in which area. Now that I look, I see the MPs have fallen into a trap that is expressed here by number three. So when I wrote, or my colleagues when we wrote the amendment, we said, oh, three years doesn't make sense, at least five. This amendment of mine isn't good either. Neither is Mr. Colakovic's amendment, where you extended the duration of the culture strategy for a year, and that's not good. Especially in this explanation you gave. The explanation says -- the amendment is not accepted for reasons why, given that the budget is planned for three years, it is most rational that the strategy for the development of the culture of the Republic of Serbia is adopted for a period of three years. First of all, it will be a long time before Serbia is able to make three-year budget planning. We have European countries that bring the budget in three years. Great Britain, for example, is one of those countries, and they plan everything for three years. I remind you, we've had two rebalancings this year, and we're planning a rebalancing in September. So this argument is weird, too. Besides, what would it matter what budget planning would be in three years? I repeat again, the strategy is a long-term document and it has nothing to do with how much you plan the budget and it doesn't need to be time-limited. When she's no longer good, she changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25030	There's a word from Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25031	I point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure for which you have remained in our debt since yesterday for - Article 27 in relation to Articles 93, 94. Although Mr Tomislav Nikolic informed the public about the duration of yesterday's address by our authorised representative on behalf of the parliamentary group Otto Kishmarton, and that the address lasted 12 minutes and 21 seconds, it was announced that you would report it to the public and tell who was responsible for the mistake, which Mr Nikolic called and accepted by him.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25032	We had an agreement to give that information when the head of your parliamentary group is here, but I can still do it now. So we had an agreement that the head of the parliamentary group would be present for what he specifically sought. I have the impression that she would like me to give that information in his presence, and I have information that she will be here in less than forty-five minutes at the Assembly. Of course I was interested in when he was going to be here, because I think it's correct for him to be there, given that we made a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25033	If that's how you understood Mr Nikolic, we will wait patiently for you to do so when he is there, but I hope it will be on your side as part of a direct television broadcast.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25034	Yes, by the end of the day we will have a television broadcast and the public will be informed of course. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs Mojovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25035	This article 19 united all parliamentary groups in the sense that we all gave similar amendments when it came to the duration of the strategy. I do not understand, and now I hear from my colleague Donko Banovic and Nenada Prokic – that the amendment of Moma Colakovic was adopted. As far as I can see it is not adopted – the report says. In the report we received from the government, I didn't get a chance to hear the minister say anything else, I sit here all the time listening very carefully, unfortunately not even the amendment of the MP Moma Colakovic was adopted. It is interesting, i.e. I must warn of the arguments that the Government is giving – why it does not accept these amendments regarding the strategy. It is mainly up to all those MPs who have given amendments to Article 19 to call for an explanation precisely for not accepting Moma Colakovic's amendment concerning the authority's competence. No comment shall be made on the duration of the strategy. In an explanation for the rejection of the amendments I have made, the amendment is not accepted for the reason why, given that the budget is planned for three years, it is most rational for Serbia's cultural development strategy to be adopted for a three-year period. I don't really count myself in uninformed MPs, I don't know that budget-making is planned, but not linked to the budget, the strategy that deals with and which contains an analysis of the existing situation, the basic settings of cultural development, the strategic direction and the instruments of cultural development, which contains plans for the implementation of these developmental, criteria, indicators and evaluation procedures, does not include, I know that the Ministry of Finance has had some objections, but does not contain absolutely financial plans to prevent it from being brought on for a period longer than three years. I fully agree with Mrs. Donko Banovic that it is not a strategy, but it is then some short-term, medium-term or not knowing what the plan is and then calling it the right name in the law or accepting at least one of these amendments that apparently gave all the parliamentary groups, fully aware that three years is a completely insufficient period to adopt something called the strategy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25036	He has Mrs. Donka Banovic's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25037	It seems to me that during the debate, I heard that the minister accepted Mr. Colakovic's amendment – and then it's even worse. That three years was the same thing, four years were still terrible, but it seems to me, Mr. Colakovic, that's how it is, and I'm sorry if I made a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25038	National MP Gorica Mojovic submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. He's giving up. ) The National MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to Article 20 of the amendment. Mrs. Djeric wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25039	In accordance with the international policy implemented in this law, we expected that this amendment would not be accepted, and consistent with one’s 2001 pawnship, when I submitted to the then Minister of Culture an amendment encouraged or amended by a number of groups of artists, performers of folk music and all of those who are involved in the preservation of ethnomasics and ethnosms in the most noble and sacrificial way, I also submitted this amendment to the opinion that there should be an ethnic sound, i.e. folk music as a special national good, because in fact no national cultural good has experienced such exile from a cultural mile, as is the national music that is currently on stage. The nest of spines and hams, which, of course, is justified by market law, has destroyed many cultural goods. We now have some sound that is very often just looking, and it scares us. We have music that is some undefined Greek-Roman styles, very often and without style and without shame, and some serious European states have regulated the work of electronic media by law and obliged them to represent their national cultures in their terms. That's why I felt it was necessary to accept this amendment and isolate the very sound that was most easily devastated, the fastest in our culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25040	The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. Mr. Nikola Lazic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25041	The Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group believes that a promotion of cultural creation and cultural expression of traditional churches and religious communities must be found among strategic directions and instruments of cultural development. I have to say, when formulating this law on culture, it's not really a matter of attention or even ignoring the system law on churches and religious communities that was adopted in 2006. Just to remind you, this Law on Churches and Religious Communities has introduced order into this area after 75 years of legal vacuum. In this sense, the cultural role of the church in the history of civilization and its cultural activity in modern society has been neglected. I would like to ask the question if the legislator of this law is aware that in the Law on Churches and Religious Communities there is a chapter called cultural action and I would like to ask Mr. Minister a question – did the Ministry of Faith have any objections and did it give any opinion regarding this law? This proposal of the law on culture actually pushes churches and religious communities into the category - other legal and physical persons. I think it makes the Ministry of Faith's failure bigger and that this is why Minister Šijakovic should indeed resign, because, ultimately, if the sacral art is left out of this law, the issue is raised, as I said, of the Serbian spiritual and cultural heritage in Kosovo and Metohija and the legitimacy of our country in defending that legacy and the requirement of others to inherit it in Kosovo and the Metohija of Protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25042	On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25043	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is necessary to remind, first of all, the public that we discussed the draft law amending the Law on Public Information and the Law on Culture at the unpublic part of the session, namely the session that was postponed to RTS, about an hour after midnight, and unfortunately the citizens interested in hearing something about these two areas, first of all to hear what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing and what it really means to them, couldn't hear it. And when the amendments are explained within two minutes, as our supernaded Rules of Procedure predicts, it is really quite complicated to bring Serbia's citizens closer to what would be necessary to know about the proposal not only of this, but of the proposal of every law. You know, if you from day to day, and it has already become a practice, and obviously not a random one, but completely deliberate on your part, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, and then, of course, with the consent of the assembly majority, how do you think that Serbian citizens are informed about what this parliament is doing? In what way? In terms of what kind of laws we bring here. Every law passed in this parliament in one way or another touches each or most of them, or a certain number or a certain target group of Serbian citizens. That's why it's not a good practice that you've introduced, and it's good to listen to us, to get out of that vicious circle, to start working as a normal world, and to be in front of the public. There is no reason to hide that in this room when discussing such important issues there are no or almost no MPs of the ruling coalition... (President: I'm sorry, since you've been speaking for more than two minutes, do you want to use the time of the parliamentary group? Yes, thank you. So, in the principle debate on the Proposal for a Law on Culture, we could really hear a number of extremely competent people and debates that are very argumentative. I am proud to point out that in the SRS parliamentary group we have two MPs, Lidija Vukicevic and Branimir Djokic, who are not only here, but the entire Serbian public known as people who have both educated and professionally engaged in culture. They have indeed had significant objections to the proposal of this law and have brought it forward in the principle debate, because they also know the Serbian cultural scene, and all the problems that follow it and the position of people who are in one way or another related to culture, that is, to which this law applies. We, when we agreed on amendments, made sure that, precisely because this law appears after 18 years and the cultural public of Serbia can't wait for it, let's not burden the amendments on this existing text, but for our conditions we have submitted a smaller number of amendments, expecting that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you, Mr Bradic, will understand correctly our intention to regulate these amendments to this eagerly awaited bill, but we didn't get what we expected. In Article 20, I proposed that, otherwise, Article 19 and 20 speak about a strategy for the development of the culture of the Republic of Serbia, that in that Article 20 which speaks about the strategy, what the strategy contains, or what are the basic settings of cultural development, it is necessary to add here that capital investment in the facilities and equipment of national and public cultural institutions be processed. Indeed, none more normal than that, because as it stands in the explanation - in the culture development strategy, it is necessary to identify capital investment issues in cultural institutions and equipment in order to plan long-term investment in cultural activities. Nothing was more normal than to accept this amendment, Minister. It's neither ideological nor political, pure life. Of course, you accepted Mrs. Gorica Mojovic's amendment. I don't mind, her amendment is similar, but it is not the same as the amendment that I have submitted, but what is really insulting is the fact, the colleagues of the Socialist Party of Serbia and the DSS said, I think and the NS, that you, in an explanation of why you don't accept someone's amendment, specifically my amendment, all spoke in some codes, completely open to me to say and to read the argument – the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the amendment of Gorica Mojovic's People's Parliament was accepted as Article 20. It's a bill of law. Mr. Bradic, it is generally known that Mrs. Gorica Mojovic is cheerful and dressing on the Belgrade cultural scene for a decade, but not because she has been educated, which is professionally, professionally in the area, but is doing so on a party mission. That's why I've said an insult to this argument and this is talking about your relationship, and to your personal god, and to the entire government, and to the congregation majority, according to the efforts of the opposition MPs that, as much as we can, and in every area, at least we from the SRS, we can certainly help you out of power, you should only have a little more hearing and see us as the MPs of the people, and not to share us with ours and yours. Both you and Mrs Mojovic were at that DS rally or it was already ZES, I have no idea anymore, when just one lady from that culturally tight mile there welcomed the citizens with the citizens of the front row and marked all the other citizens of the second row. We in the SRS are never going to share the citizens in this way, but as a representative of the Government, I expect every MP to be the same to you, and never again allow yourself this luxury or failure, or irresponsibility, or the indemnity to put one MP on the ground for something, and everyone else should adapt and follow the example, i.e. to convince us that Mrs Gorica Mojović is an example that we should follow. We don't think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25044	The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojić-Markovic and Donka Banovic. Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25045	We suggest that certain changes be made in this Article 23. In this regard, Article 23 speaks of who can, or which legal and physical persons can establish institutions. We propose that there, along with these numbers, means alongside the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government, the establishment can also be established by the Serbian Orthodox Church and traditional churches and religious communities. In 2006, a systematic and very significant law was passed, which is the Law on Churches and Religious Communities, which for the first time in Serbia or in our legislation introduced order in the area. It was a very big shift, because until then churches, traditional churches and religious communities were always placed in the category - both legal and physical faces. Mr. Culture Minister, in this law of the traditional church and all religious communities, you have returned to that category again. I don't know how you work with the Minister of Faith. I just don't want to believe that the Minister of Faith didn't notice what many MPs noticed. What's worse, you in your argument and claim what I'm saying and why you didn't accept this amendment. I will now read the argument: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason in Article 23. The draft law provides that the institution may establish a second legal or natural person under the conditions laid down by law, etc." So, I repeat, you have completely overlooked or forgotten, or you have not been informed that the Law on Churches and Religious Communities was adopted in 2006 and that all traditional churches and religious communities do not belong to other legal and physical persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25046	Gentlemen, I'd like to give you a heads-up on yesterday's dialogue and a situation that wasn't pleasant. In fact, MP Otto Kishmarton, within the framework of a work that was scheduled to speak to Serbia as a representative of the Group of MPs, with video insights, spoke 12.5 not full minutes, which means that the information we had, which produced truly random technical errors of those who were at the time led the session, simply led to confusion. I do apologize to both the public and you MPs, especially the MPs of the Progressive Group, Serbia and Mr Otto Kishmarton. If members of the Progressive Group wish that Serbia, because of the violation of the MPs, which can thus be understood, in the context of this truly unintentional mistake, in the day for the vote of the Assembly to declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure, I am prepared to vote for the breach of the Rules of Procedure myself. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25047	We warned you yesterday that a mistake was made, and you stubbornly insisted that it was not, and you acted as if it were not appropriate and not like the Messengers of the people. I know you have confidence in your staff, but that doesn't mean that there are no MPs across the street. We've had enough of your apology. You don't have to expose yourself to a vote at all. What would you do if you punished yourself for making a breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, we're not asking it to be in the voting day. We're just looking for a little more tolerance, a little more human relationship, especially at fifteen to six o'clock, at five to six, when you're losing your temper, whether it's going to start a new point or not, or whether it's going to be able to end the agenda that day, that tomorrow or the day after that, the vote starts. So we're going to show the necessary degree of tolerance, but when we feel you're doing us wrong, we're really going to be rigorous in defending our rights. I'm just asking you to understand, last night I told you well-intentioned -- you've been seeing some kind of change lately, it seems to me that you should return to your relationship with the MPs you had the day you were elected, until you've learned this job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25048	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Mr. Zeljko Tomic has a word, please. It's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, isn't it?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25049	It's about a member of the 27th and having a session. I think there's something else that needs to be added to this. The technical error caused one amazing thing, which is that Minister Ciplic, who was the authorised representative of the law on national councils, left without a final word, without a valid debate. Remember we asked him a lot of things about the law. The law remained unannounced by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, the minister from the government of the Republic of Serbia, by my assessment and assessment, underestimated this home, and I will remind you, we chose him, not him. He is responsible to us, and we to the people of the Republic of Serbia who chose us and, in my opinion, he has humiliated this home at the lightning speed that he left this home without respecting us and answering our specific questions. I hope that many MPs and the general public will agree, yesterday was the weakest defense of a law I had in my eight-year career as an MP to see.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25050	This technical error occurred in the morning work before 14.00 hours. There really wasn't a tendency, I realize that with the repercussions there was a time you were talking about, but there couldn't have been any tendency then. I just want to say that it really is an absolute mistake, not a intention. Thank you. The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Gorica Mojovic submitted an amendment to Article 23a. Here you go, Mrs Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25051	I have submitted 23 amendments to this law. If one of these 23 amendments is considered important, crucial and important for this law, it is precisely this amendment, because I am trying with it, I have tried to at least in some way establish some legal basis for 45 protection institutions in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It's about 12 regional protection offices and 33 archives covering the territory of a larger number of municipalities, who don't know who their founders are, what their responsibilities are, who funds them, etc. I don't think the explanation that explains why my amendment was rejected is absolutely relevant, on the contrary. It is said that the amendment is not accepted because the bill contains common provisions for all cultural institutions. That's not true. For these institutions, it does not contain, so before the current text of the law in Article 23, I think that item 4, says the following - the law can lay down specific conditions for the establishment of institutions in certain works in culture. I have just set out this amendment the specific four conditions for the establishment of institutions in certain activities, namely the protection of cultural goods, such institutions that are not foreseen by any other member of the law. These are institutions that have jurisdiction in the territory of a larger number of local self-government units. I don't think there's any legal, financial, or any other reason for this amendment to be rejected, so before the law only provides for the adoption of a special founding act for these institutions, we haven't once, after 20 years, and I don't know how many they're already doing, that they don't know that in heaven or on earth anymore, that at least after so long we can determine our status. I really don't understand why we're so resistant to the service of protection, why we're leaving regional institutions, I must now give an example, the minister was recently part of the "Night Museum" event on Koznik. It's a cultural good, a fortress, which dates back to 1381. It's in Bruce County. For the Bruce municipality and that cultural good, and that's just cultural good, although I believe that if there were opportunities, and money and willingness to explore, it could be given a higher category, in terms of great importance. The Regional Institute for the Protection of Kings is responsible for this cultural well-being. It is really now a question - does the Kraljevo municipality have interests to finance the experts of the Royal Institute to investigate on Koznik, to possibly do something to revitalize, and the Ministry, if it is now necessary for a project to separate funds for Koznik, but the question is - can through regular action, through protection programmes can such cultural goods be explored at all? I remind you that this cultural good has been done for 20 and a few years, no kind of research, no work has been done, and there are hundreds and thousands more around Serbia. I'm using the MP's time group. I must warn of another circumstance, without any political connotations. I have had opportunities for this amendment and for the law to look at the register of cultural goods of Serbia, especially because of the amendments that I have made to Article 6, which I thank, was adopted, regarding cultural goods, because it corrects one injustice that has been proposed, which is that the general interest is achieved only when it comes to cultural goods of great and exceptional importance. When you look at the register of cultural goods of Serbia that are of great and exceptional importance, a huge percentage, I think somewhere between 60% and 70% is on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. This is not only because there are cultural goods of great and exceptional importance on the territory of the province of Vojvodina, but mainly because there are two institutions that have clearly defined founding rights and funding competences on the territory. It's the Novi Sad Institute and it's the Regional Institute for the Protection of Monuments. From Belgrade, down south of Serbia, no other monumental protection office, and the archive has defined no status. And that is why cultural good Serbia in this part of Serbia cannot acquire these conditions to get that higher category, to be of great and exceptional cultural importance, and of course not to mention the cultural heritage that is on the World Heritage List, except for the Sopocans and the monastery complex in Kosovo, which was just placed on the World Heritage List in 2006. In that sense, I do not see the reasons, it is simply my request, if you will, as I would say, since I have led here in an explanation that the agony of these institutions is interrupted, and may a really great request that at least this amendment and this way introduce a huge number of cultural institutions of Serbia, which represent something fundamental when it comes to not only the protection of cultural goods, but also the culture of the country at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25052	The government accepted the amendment of the ethnic MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Lasla Varge, Arpad Fremond, who submitted to Article 23, to add a new member of 23a. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Donka Banovic. Mrs. Vojic-Markovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25053	Mr. Minister, I have no particular reason to defend this amendment, because it is completely related to Article 23. When you have not accepted that amendment, it makes sense to me that this amendment that we have submitted does not really make sense now. But what makes sense is that I have to ask Mr. Minister, does he understand what he's doing today when he represents these two laws during the day? By denying everything that is Serbian, not acknowledging the existence of the greatest part of Serbian history that is, we must be absolutely clear, we have failed the spiritual culture that stops the breath not only of us, the Union and the world have recognized that it is something extremely important, as soon as it defends it and protects it. In the end, Serbia's President, Mr Tadic, too, is very often referring to the KIM monuments, eventually your ministry, the videos he shows on TV, representing Serbia through these monuments. Then, without identifying religious heritage as part of your own cultural identity, you're not writing your biography tonight. It's your business and take responsibility for her. You, unfortunately, write also biography, that is, the history of the Serbian people and Serbian culture, and unfortunately this biography and this Serbian culture that you want to present should answer the question of how should we, as a member of the government and of the same entire government, expect you to preserve and preserve the legacy of Serbia, spiritually and culturally to KIM? Hard hearts can say this, because I find it very rude, but I don't think you deserve to be a minister of Serbian culture. I'm interested in the next thing - because of what we are apostrophe today, a complete denial of Serbia's spiritual and sacral culture, will the Ministry of Faith say anything? Is it possible that the minister of religion will resign because the Serbian government is conducting cultural discrimination against the church, conducting cultural discrimination against sacral art and religious culture in general? So indirectly, but very clearly you leave Serbian cultural and spiritual heritage to the KIM Albanians. You as a minister of Serbian culture know what is going on, how Albanians in Kosovo possess exactly this legacy and show it to their own. What needs to be defended by the Serbian Ministry of Culture and the Serbian government, you hand it over to those who want to take over. My question for tonight, although I see that your body language shows that you feel very uncomfortable and you're completely stiff, don't say a word of what we're telling you, I'm really very curious - how are you feeling here today?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25054	The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25055	I didn't mean to talk. The microphone was accidentally left on, because my discomfort tonight was potentiated by the fact that everything that has the omens of Serbia simply doesn't exist for the Serbian Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25056	The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojić-Markovic. Mrs. Vojic-Markovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25057	Just so it does not remain unclear for Serbian citizens watching this transmission, which is why DSS MPs in this section do not report when our amendments go. I think we pointed to everything we wanted to point out. We wanted to point out that the Ministry of Culture does not recognise one system law that the Serbian government passed in one period, which the MPs of this house adopted in one period and which is also applicable. It's the Law on Churches and Religious Communities. We wanted to point out that this law has several chapters, one of them is also called the cultural activity of the church. I appeal to the minister, his assistants, and the people who brought him here, who represent this law, to look at this law, to see what is written in that law, because this law is well covered and by the authority that this ministry covers. For us as DSS MPs, it was perfectly normal and natural for the two ministers in the government to represent one area that could overlap, sit down and try to build something that looked like part of a law covering the area of sacral culture. Obviously, for some reason, it was not significant to you today, Minister of Faith. We would like to hear what this is about and what was happening in that alignment, if it was a consensus at all, because what we see here today shows either your intention to deny everything that is Serbian, to leave the cultural and spiritual heritage in Kosovo to Albanians, or your ignorance that such a law exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25058	National MPs Zeljko Tomic and Vladimir Milentijevic submitted the 30th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 33rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojić-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted. The government has accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Zeljko Tomic and Svetlana Stojanovic. Mr. Zeljko Tomic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25059	Our amendment reads very briefly and clearly: if the ministry does not accept the proposal of the Management Board in the case of the 5th position, and does not deliver it to the Government for decision, it is necessary to inform the public about the reasons. We have received notice from the Government of the Republic of Serbia that the amendment is not accepted, with a very unscathed and horny explanation. I will quote it almost entirely: "It is not accepted for the reason that everyone has the right to be told whether the Authority has certain information of public importance, or whether it is otherwise available to him, or whether everyone has the right to make public information available to him by means of an e-mail or by other means, in accordance with the Law on free access to information of public importance. On the other hand, in order to prevent abuse, it is necessary for the Ministry to inform the Government of the reasons in the case, i.e. not to accept the proposal of the Management Board. "Sure, but then write it down. That's the meaning of our amendment. As regards information of public importance, the information law of public importance sets out the definition of this information. What is information of public importance? This is information at the disposal of the public authority, either in the work or in relation to the work of the public authority, contained in a particular document, and concerns everything the public has a legitimate interest in knowing. Mr. Secretary, I must remind you, I hope you remember my parliamentary question about the fact that Novi Sad, the city from which I come, has no cinema. You gave me the answer that there are four movies. I'll keep that document for the rest of my life. They'll even ask me if my kid -- sorry, Dad, is it possible that the minister told you that your hometown had four movies, and at that point he didn't have any? I'll take care of it. That, in my opinion, is information of public importance. During Minister Bradic, during the government of the ZES coalition, which ruled the town of Novi Sad, the province of Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia, it happened that the second largest city in Serbia was left without a cinema. I'll remind you, the city of culture, the city of host of the great film festival, no movies. If someone tells you there's something, there's a movie hall on Spence, but I have to tell you, I'm going to remind you, "Slumdog Millionaire" or the last home-made bigger movie "Holy Georgia Kills Ajda," he couldn't and he didn't show up on movie theaters in Novi Sad for one reason only, because those cinema posters aren't there. You have forwarded this information of public and important importance. It wasn't your answer, you asked the authorities from certain institutions at the regional and city level, I know that, but you got the wrong information. If you don't believe me, let's take a walk with the New Sad, find two movies and I'll do whatever you want, and I'll pay you dinner, but if you don't find that other movie, what are you going to do to me, or to the Novosadians? In the shame and shame of this government, Serbia's second-largest city has no cinema. It is information of public importance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25060	The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Milos Radulovic and Svetlana Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milos Radulović, Milan Lapčević and Svetlana Stojanovic together submitted to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 40th Amendment, with the correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government has accepted this amendment. MP Gorica Mojovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted together to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Zoran Nikolic and Svetlana Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond together submitted to the 44th Amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Zoran Nikolic and Svetlana Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 46 and 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Svetlana Stojanović, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic together submitted to the 48th amendment. The word is for Mrs Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25061	In addition to this amendment, I will use the time remaining from our parliamentary group. It was very difficult to write amendments to this law on culture because this law can hardly be called by law, both by its structure and by what it regulates, by any declaration, by some general attitudes, some of which may be acceptable to us, some not, and above all because it neither defines nor protects public interest in culture. Another big problem is, this national cultural council is a very important body whose establishment we are for, but from the number of amendments the MPs have submitted and the competence of the National Council for Culture, what it will do, etc., it is evident that the law does not do so properly. Then we have a strategy for the cultural development of the Republic that we really need a long time ago. The law does not show it either, we will wait for it for a very long time, we do not know exactly who will write it, and on what basis the debate between MPs developed the most about whether the strategy should be adopted for three, four, five years and was proposed for 10 years. Three, as far as the law says, is absolutely not enough. In three years, there's nothing to be done or to come up with a strategy, let alone to be implemented. Four years is not good because it coincides with the government's mandate and it is not good that the strategy only lasts for the mandate of one government, but that it lasts through, therefore, that there is some continuity that takes over the next government. The proposal to bring the strategy to 10 years is the best and hardest for me, because these are serious things, if the Assembly defines what its priorities are. I think it should be realized for 10 years. Then, the cultural institutions allegedly defined in this law did not receive anything. It will not make it any easier for them, and in particular it will not be easier for them in the way they are financed. The responsibility, distribution of responsibilities and obligations of the Directors of the Management Board and of the Supervisory Board has remained as confusing as it has been in practice so far. Then, what hurts me the most are these institutions of culture of national importance, which are in no way privileged in law, and carry out one task of first-class general and public importance. We have an amendment that we're trying to solve. The privatisation in culture is not even mentioned, it's mentioned in some amendments, I haven't been able to see if it's accepted, in what form. The protection of sacral monuments, our colleagues spoke a lot of things, except that the law on culture by abandoning sacral objects in collegiate with the Law of Faith, these unmistakable monuments of culture of exceptional, greatest and world importance, to which we rightly admire, are monuments of the Serbian Orthodox Church and, above all, their and their property, and their responsibility and their merit for preservation, there is no such thing in the law. I have to mention something that really makes me happy, which is that one problem in law is mentioned and in a certain way solved, in my opinion and in our opinion, it could have been better solved, which is the status of an independent artist. Our deep belief that a man who performs his own artistic work, not just any culture-related professional activity, if he does it on his own, has the right to have health care from the Republic of Serbia's budget and to be paid pension insurance, as well as anyone who is employed in a permanent working relationship. The way it's settled in the law is not satisfied and we'll talk about it when it comes to the agenda. It seems to me that we are proposing a solution that is more favourable for artists. The DSS has submitted a hundred amendments to that original version, believing that the Culture Act will earn an independent debate, not that it will be joined with this law on amendments and additions to the Information Act, which only deserves to be removed from the agenda. However, time has been halved, so we have halved our contribution in the form of amendments, but we have intervened in the hope that some MPs will adopt and accept. So much for the principled work. Now, if you'll allow me to move on to this article 48. Here we propose an amendment that reads: 'The institution of culture for performing artistic, programming or professional jobs may hire a person who performs these activities independently or conclude with it a contract of work for a certain period of time in accordance with the statute. '"What is significant in this amendment is this – a certain time. The bill mentions a three-year deadline that has caused great resistance between artists and all who are close to culture, believing that it is in college and with the Labour Act, and in a collapsing with equal rights of all employees, including artists. It seemed to us that there were some, but indeed only some, artistic works for which it was justified to conclude a work contract for a certain time. For example, they're actors who engage in the season. Three years is certainly small, which can be hired for a certain season, whose contract can then be extended if they continue to play. In any case, the work contract at a certain time that caused resistance is not so unfair, because it would solve some cultural institutions, primarily theaters, a huge number of employees who are no longer engaged, which would also be neither human or socially justified just to throw out on the street. With the status of an independent artist when he no longer has room in the repertoire for any reason, he is through the status of an independent artist and socially and pensionly protected, and on the other hand he can be employed where he has needs for his work. I don't know if they'll be happy with the artists. Our proposal is that the statutes of every institution of culture, which knows best whether it needs and what kind of workers for a certain period of time and how long, define it by the statute. Of course, there is no place for such a thing in the Serbian Archives, no place for cultural monumental protection services except for work contracts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25062	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25063	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this law is more like a law on political parties to me than a law on culture and from the point of view of the legal profession, I will try to explain it to you and prove it. I have submitted an amendment to Article 48(1) where you have said – a person who performs artistic, programming or professional work in an institution, is based on a working relationship with a working contract for a period of up to three years. So, not for three years, but for a three-year period. In the attitude of the 4th same member, you said – extremely, if an artist or an expert person has 20 years of retirement or 17.5 if it is a woman, it can build a working relationship indefinitely. This law and this provision are unconstitutional. The term of office may be a condition when establishing relations with special powers and responsibilities or at jobs where special work experience is required. This is about the faces where the experience is who it is. So it's about artists. You deny yourself in the light of this law. You're saying it's being brought in for one basic goal, not only that, but it's one of the basic goals, to improve the position of all entities in culture. The subjects in culture are certainly artists and people who do software or professional work. You here have an incorrect attitude towards cultural employees. The fact that you had no intention of passing a good law suggests that a total of 169 amendments were submitted, 29 were accepted, 140 were not, and all amendments were submitted in order to improve this text of the law. Furthermore, if you have in mind who can be the founder of cultural institutions, and it is known to be a republic, an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government, then you can clearly conclude what your goal was with this provision in Article 48(1), and especially if you have in mind that managers or directors of a cultural institution will be able to decide when to fire someone. Then you know what the ultimate goal is. The ultimate goal and we know well how you came to power, you came with the help of automatic weapons, and now you're trying on a perfidane, I know what I'm talking about, a way through the Culture Act, you provide a number of voters to be slightly larger than 1%. The citizens of Serbia and the SRS parliamentary group understood your messages perfectly through the cultural law, and you certainly won't get away with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25064	The amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic, does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Prokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanović, Milosav Petkovic and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25065	We've come to this topic that hurts me very much, and these are institutions of national importance. First, let me tell you that with the basic text of the bill, the status of an institution of national importance is obtained by a government act and that the government is closer to regulating the conditions, criteria and method of acquiring, or withdrawing the status of cultural institutions from public importance. I absolutely believe that this is scandalous and that only by law, by voting in this National Assembly, something can be declared an institution of culture and this status can be taken away in the same way. We are also not to read now in this amendment the number of cultural institutions we regard as institutions of national importance. It's more or less the kind of status they've had so far. If this list is incomplete, the law can be added, if something is put in place for no reason, the law could have been removed again, but that the status of an institution of national importance is decided by the Government and that this status can also be obtained by a private institution, it is absolutely unacceptable for me. Let me read a quote from "Politicals", which speaks of the relationship current to the institutions of national institutions, currently in force. "The National Theatre in Belgrade provides for 6.5m dinars and for the construction of the physical halls of balloons in Malošište, next to Doljevac 6.7m dinars of budget money. Four hundred thousand of the most precious exhibits owned by the National Museum are not stored in the depot, because the Ministry cannot settle which deposit is the most favourable and which is not. The reconstruction process of the National Museum has not begun. The permanent position of the National Public Museum has been closed for six years. After leaving the first people of the National Theatre and Philharmonic, the resignation was also submitted to the National Museum. ''To avoid confusion, this is not my text, this is a quote from 'Politics' since 2 April 2009.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25066	The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Svetlana Stojanović, Zeljko Tomic and Zoran Nikolic together submitted to the 52nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Svetlana Stojanović, Željko Tomic and Milica Vojić-Markovic submitted the 52nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 54th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 54th amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 54th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. You want a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25067	On the 54th of this law, my colleague Aleksandra Janković and I have submitted every single amendment, because by consulting our Council on Culture, which makes up a number of prominent artists, we have come up with two versions of which we want to affect this member of the law, i.e. to disable the private, political, burazeric decision of the Minister himself on two distinguished associations, i.e. two representative associations of artists. We felt that behind that word – the minister cannot stand a point, but there must be something else that will be determined in some way by the Serbian public or by the legislation, as it can be determined which are the two associations of artists that can bear the status of representativeness. One more provision would make it more transparent, as is usually said, and I say more visible, clearer and fairer, because culture is a personal race, but cultural goods cannot be private property, they are certainly public, general and what we stand for in this amendment is certainly national treasures, and so seen and so accepted. It is not a good solution that in a decision like this, especially in an area of culture, extremely sensitive and very subtle, the minister is the one who is both a god and a beating, because the beating with one end has not yet been invented.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25068	National MP Nenad Prokic submitted to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 54th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25069	As counterpart Zlata Djeric said, this amendment was aimed at reducing the minister's authority. However, it explains that the amendment is not accepted because it is not a matter that may be the subject of a special zone. What if we had special laws in front of the public when they could pass a sublegal act, at least 12 pieces, half of which the minister would solve. The minister will actually decide on everything, as a god on earth, from who and from which parties he will be directors, who will again be little gods in his institutions of culture. The Minister of Culture, with the help of his loyal ministry, appoints directors, directors choose alike to be employees, and so on. The freemen will no longer have the right to a union fight for their esnafic rights or trade union protection. The transge-fange combination will continue to be in circulation, and it will be possible to perfidibly bypass a direct conflict of interest, according to Belgrade drama director directed at Dusko Radakovic Theatre, and director Duško Radovic was directed in Belgrade's Drama. What if we were to consider conflict of interest when the culture minister himself directed Verter at the National Theatre in October, so, when he was already a minister. However, the previous minister also showed the intensities to continue acting. He also played at the Ministry, but he had a tendency to continue acting in plays. Nebojsa Bradic led this to a complete paradox. This law definitely doesn't protect especially those people and artists who have over 18 years of internships and more. Who, for example, will take the actors who have (President: Time). ..... Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25070	Parliamentarians Svetlana Stojanovic, Zeljko Tomic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted together to the 55th amendment. Mrs. Stojanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25071	This is about the status of an independent artist who, in the bill of law, is being solved through a representative association. We believe that this is the wrong way, although we know that these members of the law are in line with the art associations, that they are satisfied with them. Under the proposed concept, independent artists will be paid to the city of Belgrade, and to prominent independent artists and culture experts, not to mention, the Republic. In my opinion, that's one big discrimination. No artist creates for citizens of Belgrade, I guess, citizens of the world, not even Serbia. I think that this concept of representative associations hides a big trap, because it limits the freedom of association of artists, which must be equal for all citizens, and also for artists, artists have the right to as many associations as they consider appropriate, and only two representative associations, which are determined by the minister, are recognised in the bill of law. Those two, not one or three or five, get a very large right to decide who deserves the status of an independent artist and who doesn't. This is a negative definition. I don't mind the association. On the contrary, I'm a member of a 35-year-old. I think they should have a different role. But against the forms of determining representativeness and the granting of competence to such associations, I am against it. This is what I'm not, and for what I am, I'm going to say on the amendment to Article 56.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25072	The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by Svetlana Stojanovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Lapcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25073	So, Amendment 56 is changed and it says, "A stand-alone artist is a physical person who performs artistic work in the form of occupation. The status of an independent artist is assigned by the Ministry's commission on the basis of precise criteria, which determines the national cultural council on the proposal of registered art associations. For each artistic and cultural activity, specific criteria are established for the acquisition of the status of independent artists. An artist with the calling of an independent artist is entitled to pay contributions to social, health, pension and disability insurance from the Republic of Serbia's budget. ". So the basic idea of this different concept is, first of all, that you no artist, nor one who independently performs the work, Slovenians have one term that I like very much, which is a self-employed artist, you don't force it to join at all, because artists are known as individuals. Then, if he wants to team up, to team up with whoever he wants, with whom he's close, on any basis, artistic, social, etc. Thirdly, not to determine the minister who among these artists' associations is politically correct, who is not, to whom such great authority should be given, to whom it is not. So my idea is that an independent artist, once again, has the right to directly compete with the Commission of the Ministry which performs a less technical task, because the criteria for the allocation of status have been established by the National Council for Culture on the proposal of registered associations. I will respond in advance to a possible criticism that registered associations can be very much. Yes, but the ministry also has the right not to register the one it considers to be small or on any other basis inadequate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25074	The 56th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. The government has accepted this amendment. National MPs Svetlana Stojanovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Lapcevic have tabled an amendment proposing the addition of Article 56a. Does anyone want a word? Mrs Svetlana Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25075	It is the same story about independent artists and when the status of an independent artist is assigned by the provinces, cities and municipalities. This is absolutely not a dispute, because the provinces, based on their regulations and their respective bodies, and cities and municipalities are completely free to establish the criteria by which they will give the status of an independent artist and pay contributions to the socio-retirement from their budgets. I see no reason for Belgrade's citizens to be privileged, is that most artists live in Belgrade compared to the citizens of Piroth or Prokupja, or I don't know who, because their local self-government doesn't have enough money to pay their contributions. So, all the independent artists who meet the same criteria -- the republican budget, and the additional provinces, cities and municipalities, when they can and think they should.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25076	The 57th Amendment was jointly submitted by Svetlana Stojanovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Lapcevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25077	Only for an independent expert associate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25078	National MP Marko Milenkovic submitted an amendment to the title above article 58. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a law on culture deserves certainly much more attention than that given by the congregation's majority, at the very least deserved a special item of the agenda. In this way, he came under the accompanying law of one of the far-reaching, non-democrat and non-citizen public information laws. In 1998, Alexander Vukic did not write to the law to this extent endangers the freedom of opinion and speech and the independence of the media, and is closely linked to culture. It's paradoxical, because culture and organized state in these types of law have no leads. The amendment I made to Article 58. The proposal for a law on culture refers to a title, which, as proposed by the Government, is not only vague, but also contradictory with the controversial notion of "own-minded cultural associates", without logical basis in practice, and I have proposed a new concept of "autonomous performer of cultural programs and art associates". It is necessary to regulate the legal rights of more than 8,000 performers of folk and entertainment music, pop and rock, as well as jazz music, and art programs and other performers of cultural programs to accept more precise regulation of the rights and obligations of cultural programme performers in musical and stage activities. Those performers who carry out their own activity are socially secured and regularly reconcile social security contributions, as well as the corresponding taxes, where they should be made more precise by accepting this amendment to achieve the decades-long continuity of legal rights and obligations (President: Time). _Other Organiser on the basis of their implementation of cultural programmes, and in order not to have to change the legal rules of pension and health insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25080	The title above Articles 58 and 58 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 58th Amendment was jointly submitted by Svetlana Stojanović, Milica Vojić-Markovic and Milan Lapčević. He has Mrs Stojanović's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25081	The amendment reads that Article 58 is deleted for reasons that professional and technical jobs in culture cannot have the status of cultural and artistic professions. Here, a big dilemma appeared about vocal and instrumental implementation of cultural programs. I don't understand what the problem is at all, vocalally and instrumentally, the implementation of cultural programs is a work of art that is being solved by a member of this 56th law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25082	On Article 58, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25083	To Article 58, I added a new position and a member of 58 is changed and reads, in order to be precise: ''The stand-alone performer of cultural programs in musical and stage activities is a natural person who, in the form of occupation, performs vocal-instrumental performance or otherwise performs a cultural programme or artistic program. An art associate in culture is a natural person who, in the form of a profession, performs technical and technical tasks in the field of cultural activities, and whose representative association in culture has established the status of a person who performs his or her own artistic or other work in the field of culture. ''Article 8 of the Law, paragraph 10, mentions the work of culture as well - the remaining implementation of cultural programs in musical and stage activities, but also in the subsequent provisions of the bill as art associates in article 58, only the vocal-instrumental implementation of cultural programs is mentioned, and the amendment that I have submitted makes it more clear that the figures, leaders, folklore players, players of modern games, artists, are all other performers of modern programs. Of course, the government has no hearing, so it rejected this argument and amendment, with its argument - the amendment is not accepted for reasons that it is not in line with the concept of a bill that is termologically in line with the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, and in the interest of the exercise of the rights of artists, experts in culture and cultural associates set out in that law. I ask the question - are certain interests and certain actions, the type of dactylographer, who works in a law firm or in a court of law, publishing activity or theater, which of them works in culture, which does not work in culture? Or a carpenter who works in a furniture factory or a carpenter who works in a theater, who is being led here to work in culture and who isn't? I think my amendment is a little more specific than this member of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25084	National MPs Svetlana Stojanovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Lapcevic submitted an amendment to the title above article 59. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 59th Amendment were submitted by MPs Filip Stojanović and Miletic Mihajlovic. The word is given by MP Filip Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25085	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 59. A bill on culture, in which I ask that the word "retirement" be replaced by "invalid pension" in point 1(2). To remind you, Article 59 reads - a person from Articles 56-58 of this Act acquires the status of a person who performs his or her own artistic or other work in the field of culture by enrolling in the records of persons acting independently in the field of art or other activity in the field of culture, if he meets the following conditions: first, if he has a business capacity; secondly, if he performs the activities of Article 8 of this Act as sole or principal occupation, and is not a user of retirement. We ask that the position and status of persons performing independent artistic or other work in the field of culture be made easier, to allow these persons to get more funding and more rights. Your regime unfetteredly imposes US subculture on Serbian citizens. At the same time, the Republic government declares everything Serbian to be obsolete or undesirable. You make kids watch TV garbage, like American wrestling that promotes violence, torture and brutality. Since the start of the broadcast of the series, owned by Ted Turner, SNN, the number of fights has been increased, as has the number of serious and minor physical injuries in Serbian primary and secondary schools, as American wrestling for the target group has its primary and secondary schools. It's an unculture that you represent and it's your European integrations that you brainwash for Serbian citizens every day. I urge you to stop doing this and accept my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25086	The 59th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Svetlana Stojanović, Milos Aligrudić and Željko Tomic submitted together to the 60th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25087	I apologize if my text seems like a repetition, but it's the law's disorder. So, the DSS proposal is that a member of the 60th change and reads - a request for the assignment of the status of a person who performs his own artistic or professional activity is submitted to the Ministry by an interested person. The Commission shall give a reasoned assessment of the fulfilment or non-compliance of the conditions and shall issue a solution within 15 days of the date of submission of the application. If, within a prescribed period of 15 days, the commission rejects the request or does not issue a decision on its status, the party may declare a complaint to the minister. The party may appeal to the competent court against the decision to refuse to give its status and to refuse an appeal addressed to the minister. The idea, then, is that the three-stage was preserved, that the application was submitted personally, without the intermediation of the association, that the commission was taking a decision based on the established criteria in which associations were involved and that the appeal could finally be brought to the court.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25088	Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25089	Again, it is about a change of Article 60(3), where instead of the word "requirement minister" I enter the words "confirms a special law". The same target, the same distance and the same argument of the government, whenever trying to limit the minister's authority in any way, the answer is no. There is no discrimination between the minister and the ministry, but there is discrimination for the bearer of action in the institutions of culture. The man who celebrated the Belgrade Philharmonic, Mr. Ivan Tasovac, said nicely at this first public hearing - this is not a law on culture, but a law on the Ministry of Culture, and this law that not only does not comply with the existing Labour Act, but also violates European directives. Europe does not know this kind of discrimination, and it does not know the artist as a carrier of action. Also in the ministry of former Minister Koadinovic's response came from the international Federations of FIM and FIA that solutions by which only artists as jobmakers go to contracts at a certain time are not acceptable from the EU's point of view. If the proposer's intention was indeed to pass the first system law on culture, in line with European legislation, then it was really necessary to renegotiate work contracts on artistic, programming and professional affairs and ultimately comply with the existing Labour Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25090	Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanovic, Milos Aligrudic and Zeljko Tomic. The word has a folk MP, Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25091	I'm going to spare you a series of amendments that just come out of this last one I said, right up to Article 67.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25092	Members of the 61st Amendment were submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. The word is by MP Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25093	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose, with my amendment, that a new position of 2 is added in Article 61 after Article 1, which reads - to the record set out in Article 1 of this article, which, in addition to their regular employment, is done in other professional activities, works in cultural activities, in accordance with the provisions of this law. The existing headings 2 and 3 become points 3 and 4. Ladies and gentlemen, because of the public who is following this session, I will draw attention to some very interesting facts, some of which require explanations. First, there have been 140 amendments to this bill. It's almost twice as many amendments as the bill has members. Second, dozens of amendments, namely 61 amendments, almost every other one, were submitted by MPs to the ruling majority. Only Gorica Mojovic submitted 23 amendments. This means that a large number of members of the ruling parties feel that this bill is not good, i.e. this law does not have a majority. However, in the day to vote, the bill will be passed. So the ruling majority MPs will vote for the adoption of laws they consider not good. The worst part is they'll vote against their own amendments. All these facts point to only one conclusion – when pleading on this law, DS MPs, G17 and SPS will vote against their own beliefs. The interests of culture, the interests of cultural workers, will not be managed, will only be voted under the Party's directive and that is fine. But that, you will admit, has little to do with culture and European principles, and nothing to do with democracy and representing citizens' interests. In this case, it is the interests of tens of thousands of cultural workers you have deceived, as well as of all Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25094	Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25095	Same story again. Again, I have tried to actually respect the views of the Association of Fine Arts of Serbia, because they have addressed our parliamentary club, and probably other parliamentary groups, by delivering the views and views of the ULUS on the solutions provided for by this proposal for a law on culture. Given the tradition of ULUS, the number of its members, as well as the importance that this association has as a subject in culture, they have asked us, and I ask you, to reconsider the views they have delivered. One of these views refers precisely to the restriction of the minister's authority, because with consultation with the chairman of the Management Board of the ULUS, Predrag Ciric, I have actually come to this amendment which would only have one function, which is that your powers are being reduced a little bit, and that special laws are being established. Since it is very important areas, the records of persons self-executing this artistic or other activity in the field of culture, with the obligation to provide the data from the records of this representative association in culture to the competent tax administration organisation, would be good if at least they were contained and the way in which they were kept and the records were clearly and transparently defined by a special law, which would again be declared in the Supreme Legislative Body, which is the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, certainly, not the Government. So people wouldn't think I was running a private correspondence here, I just got a message from the ULUS. He says so - the Republic Ministry of Culture refused to pay any money last year for the ULUS programmes in Pavilion "Cveta Zuzoric" and the ULUS Gallery in Knez Mihailovo. The committee was led by Milica Tomic, a member of the ULUS. The woman didn't even know what the program was, she just ran the Ministry's policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25096	Members of the 62nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanovic, Milos Aligrudic and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Representatives Svetlana Stojanovic, Milos Aligrudic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted to the 63rd amendment. Anybody want a word? (No) Representatives Svetlana Stojanovic, Milos Aligrudic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted to the 64th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Svetlana Stojanovic, Milos Aligrudic and Zeljko Tomic submitted an amendment to the title above the 65th and to article 65th. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Svetlana Stojanovic, Milos Aligrudic and Zeljko Tomic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 66 and 66. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 67th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 67th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Zeljko Tomic. The word has a folk MP, Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25097	I really have to react to this. We suggest that article 67 be deleted. The law states that criteria for gaining the status of prominent artist, or prominent culture expert, are prescribed by the minister. Which is a lot, and it's a lot for the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25098	Members of the 70th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Škrbic has submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Lidija Vukicevic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is one minute and 40 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25099	In Article 71(2), the word ‘association’ is replaced by the words ‘amathetic cultural and artistic societies and their alliances’. This is an SRS proposal. Right away, cultural and artistic creation units are cultural and artistic societies and their alliances involving amateurs, not amateur associations. As we today determine the proposal for a law on culture, which needs to be translated into a law on culture, we would have to specify and make this clear, because it is then different treatment for cultural and artistic societies. Therefore, in Article 71, add a new position 4, which reads: "The unit of local self-government specifically provides spatial conditions for the work of amateur cultural and artistic associations and provides funds (which is very important) for the realisation of their programmes that are of local and regional importance". So municipalities and cities are obliged to provide conditions, because these are the only forms of cultural and artistic activity in these environments. I'll just remind you that complete Serbia should be in that cultural programme and exude culture. Lately, in the last ten or more years, we have witnessed that only individual theatres are visiting in large cities. Culture is not only needed by Nisa, Novi Sad, Belgrade and other cities. Culture needs villages and much smaller places than these cities. It used to be a practice, probably Mr. Minister knows it, so it was organized by the village, so the shows and all other cultural experiences could be seen by people in the villages. That's how we deterred young people from cafes and drugs and all those things they took today, so I suggest that municipalities and cities provide funds for culture to spread beyond the capitals.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25100	People's MPs, time at the disposal of your parliamentary group has been used. National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted the amendment to article 71. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Member of the 72nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandra Jankovic. The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25101	This is the first time I'm glad Gorica Mojovic beats me to it. Her amendment has been accepted, and practically the essence of my amendment is covered by its amendment. What's this about? In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 72nd point 1 after point 2) must be added to point 3 In Chapter 4, the following entry is added: 72, other cultural entities are listed as the employees, foundations, companies, entrepreneurs registered for the performance of culture, and are left out of the Cultural and Educational Community of Serbia, the Cultural and Educational Community of Belgrade and the general cultural and educational community in municipalities, i.e. the cities of Serbia, which are and what important factors of cultural work. In the past law on culture, the Cultural and Educational Community of Serbia was the only organisation to list the names, besides national cultural institutions. One more reason not to miss it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25102	Members of the 72nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milan J. Nikolic and Milorad Buha. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Zeljko Tomic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Svetlana Stojanovic jointly submitted to the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25103	In Article 72, we propose to add a new position, which reads: "Co-operation of public institutions of culture with companies and entrepreneurs registered to carry out their work in culture is necessary for the successful achievement of the cultural development strategy, which is why special criteria will be encouraged." That's our proposal. The law only states that as a second entity in culture there are loans, foundations, companies of entrepreneurs registered for the performance of the work, etc. Let me quote two examples from "Politicals". The "Communis" marketing firm, which promotes the project "Serbia in Serbia", received a 1,319 job from the Ministry of Culture. 105 dinars. The culture ministry had to call in accordance with the Law on Public Procurement to call a competition for Serbia's promotion in Serbia, instead of calling a competition under the Act of Action of the General Interest on Culture, without a previously publicly called competition of 1.3 million dinars, the "Communis" agency was awarded. The Ministry of Culture announced by saying there was co-operation with the company "Communis". For the whole Serbian project, the ministry predicted 62 million dinars. “Politics” 31 May 2009. Another quote, short, from "Politicals", two more precisely. "Publishers demand an emergency meeting with the minister, and if they don't get their money under their contract to buy books, the Ministry of Culture will sue. The ministry announced it will pay off a certain amount of money intended for competitions to buy publications published in 2008, for public libraries on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. ''Politics' July 17th. "After the budget rebalance, the Ministry of Culture has no place to meet its contractual obligations for 2008, but will therefore discuss the 2010 strategy with publishers. 'And the title of June 22nd: 'The books have been sent, they should be paid. '"So much for the general interest in culture and decentralisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25104	National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the amendment together. The word has Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25105	We propose this amendment to replace the position of the 1st member, which speaks of how the institutions of culture, change, or replace, with this proposal, but I'll cut short because I don't have much time. The proposal did not foresee that cultural programmes of institutions whose founders of churches and religious communities are financed or co-financed from the budgets of founders and other sources provided for by this law. In an explanation, the legislator referred me to the Law on Churches and Religious Communities and claimed that it was regulated there. That's right. However, in 2009, when it comes to funding cultural programmes of cultural institutions, there is no place in the law on culture for churches and religious communities. That's what I said before, so I wouldn't be boring, the Law on Churches and Religious Communities has for the first time systematically resolved the situation, I'm talking about the legal position, churches and religious communities in Serbia. This law is passed almost three years after that law. It was normal for solutions from this law, when it comes to cultural institutions and their cultural programmes, to be found in the law on culture, and in this article they are not even listed as other legal or physical persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25106	The 73rd amendment was jointly submitted by Zeljko Tomic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 74 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament to Gorica Mojovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament to Gorica Mojovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 75th Amendment was jointly submitted by Željko Tomic, Milica Vojić-Marković and Svetlana Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25107	We propose erasing Articles 4 and 5, where funding for extremely significant projects cannot be envisaged, and this is allowed to be financed by 25% of the budget. We do not believe that there are extremely significant projects that cannot be predicted and which earn so much money.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25108	National MP Nenad Prokic submitted to the 75th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milica Vojić-Marković, Željko Tomic and Svetlana Stojanovic submitted together to Article 76 of the amendment. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of Gorica Mojovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Gorica Mojovic submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new chapter 4a and new members of 77ai 77b. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 79 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of Gorica Mojovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 79th Amendment was jointly submitted by Željko Tomic, Milica Vojić-Marković and Svetlana Stojanović. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Svetlana Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25109	This is what I end up with. Thank you for your kind patience. In article 79, one mistake was stolen, so it stands – in the territory of the autonomous province and I want to remind that the Republic of Serbia has two APs. Please make it right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25110	The amendment was submitted by MP Mile Ilic to article 80. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 80 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25111	In Article 80 following Article 1, point 2 is added: ‘Existing associations and alliances referred to in Article 3. The law on the self-fulfilment of art and other works in the field of culture shall continue to work as representative associations within the meaning of the provisions of this law, provided that they comply with their organisation, work and general acts with the provisions of this law no later than one year from the date of the application of this law. ''The aim was to leave the possibility for those associations which had an attribute of representativeness, provided they accepted the obligations provided for by this law in terms of harmonising the organisation, work and general acts with legal provisions. What really made me laugh was an explanation why this amendment of mine isn't being adopted. The government has already lost its patience here, and it says - the amendment is not accepted on this article in 80, for the reasons set out in the reasons for not accepting the amendments submitted by Professor Mile Ilic to article 80. They even hated to keep on talking about this amendment, rather than looking back at the previous text. Not there, unfortunately, counterpart Dejan Radenkovic, who was just surprised by the culture ministry's position on the amendments to the SPS parliamentary group, is probably surprised by counterpart Zoran Bortic, and in the greatest wonder is Professor Mile Ilic. I will therefore conclude my presentation today with a question for the SPS parliamentary group – will you really remain abstention?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25112	National MP Branimir Djokic submitted to the 80th amendment. The word is by MP Branimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25113	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, evidence of how much the ruling coalition is interested in this law on culture shows these empty benches as well. As far as I can tell, only two MPs from the ruling coalition are sitting here. But that's how it is. I have submitted an amendment to Article 80, and I believe that he is identical to the amendment of my colleague Jankovic and he has been rejected. Here, you see, and we're asking that existing associations, which are authorized under the Act on the Self-execution of Fine Arts, continue their continuity. There are many reasons why you already have another association in the bill. We've already had a debate here in the Assembly. You were there. A lot of our colleagues think we're right and we don't need to tear it down, and as far as I can tell, it's already decided to collapse, and in some ways, the argument is that all associations have the same starting point. This means that all the people who have been protocolsed over the years through these associations, who have exercised their right to social security and paid for health insurance, will now have to do it all over again. There's probably some things behind that I don't want to interpret, but it's being forced that many associations that are now authorized by law aren't at the will of the Ministry of Culture, and now we're going to look for some of their replacements, so we're going to see from the beginning, it doesn't matter what the whole system is going to be torn down, but let's look for a fresh start. The other thing is, I'm in a hurry for time, because it's a short time, so that the more I express my views. It skipped Article 61. The bill we passed, no one looked back on persons who, in addition to their regular employment, perform artistic and other works. Such persons in Serbia are at least 50% in this artistic activity they perform from other professions... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25114	Two minutes. Members of the 82nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Svetlana Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 83rd Amendment was jointly submitted by Željko Tomic, Milica Vojić-Marković and Svetlana Stojanović. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Mile Ilic has tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 83. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Branimir Djokic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 83. The word is from Ambassador Branimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25115	I have submitted an amendment to Article 83, and I believe that it should be added to Article 83, which reads: "For the cultural action of the protection of cultural goods, cinematography, theatre work, musical and stage of action and the work of cultural and artistic amateurism, special laws will be passed that must comply with this law." Why do I think that? I believe that specific laws must be passed within a year for these particular activities in culture, such as cinematography, theatre, musical-phase action, so that all the problems that occur in these areas of culture are developed by this law, so I think that this amendment should be accepted, because many things would be resolved in due course.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25116	National MP Gorica Mojovic submitted to the 84th amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Member of the 84th Amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Prokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic has tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 84. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 86 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of Gorica Mojovic. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, does the proposing minister, Nebojsa Bradic, want the final word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25117	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had a very intense debate today. This discussion was very interesting, there were topics that sometimes came out of the domain of culture, entered some other areas that weren't the subject of this law, but I simply have to say that this bill is the basis for many other laws that will be passed both in the fields of culture and in some other areas. So the sensitivity of this law, or this proposal before you, is particularly important because it is important for society and I believe so much that you all had enough good reason to participate in this debate in the way you participated. The culture ministry has accepted a large number of amendments to the proposal for a law on culture, which almost all parliamentary parties have submitted. I have to say, even some parties who have said that their amendment has not been accepted, that it has been accepted and that it is something that has been incorporated into the proposal for the text of the cultural law. We have adopted amendments that are legally possible, i.e. those that are not in collegiate with other laws. I would so much like to tell the MPs what they already know, that the nature of accepting a certain amendment, if it is similar content, was not related to the quality of the proposed amendment, which has been delivered by a particular political party, which has therefore been put in a different relationship to a more quality, because the other party has delivered the other political party, but rather because of a certain procedure that you know well, the ways in which the amendments are delivered and which have its legitimacy. There have been very good amendments and what I am ready to accept in some future period, in the voting day, and certain things that have been put forward today as a proposal, believing that these things should also contribute to a more quality law on culture. When I say this, I think that the adoption of this law is extremely important precisely because of the state of our culture and this law should be this kind of framework that will allow many other things in culture to be regulated. The situation in culture, I'll agree with the other MPs who talked about it, it's not great, it's devastated a lot of things in previous periods, a lot has been started. Many good ideas are triggered, somewhere we care and we are now here to change certain things, and we are working on it and we believe that this law should allow this kind of quality jump, quality changes to some solutions, which are the subject of future work. As much as this law on culture has objections in particular, it needs to be looked at in general and thus thought about, and above all, done in its definition and the importance of what it is essentially, and that is the system law. This law certainly fulfils its mission, to create and accelerate the legal environment and specific conditions in which everyone will feel secure, only it is not possible to edit it on its own. So this is just one of the first laws in a series of acts that will come out of it. This is a law that will provide the basis for the adoption of a whole set of laws on which MPs and MPs made their remarks, proposals and showed this kind of need to adopt these laws and sublaws. As much as a certain sublegal act will regulate some topics that may not be quite clear from the existing text of the law, because it is essentially a roof law, it is a system law. In order for all of this to happen, that all of us as a culture, all together, and the consequences of culture and citizens and states, we get these legal and sublegal acts, it is necessary to adopt this law. I believe this law abolishes that wing that often repeats "when better times come." I believe that this law and some other things in culture can certainly contribute to the fact that better times are created and that we begin to do so today and here. There have been some very useful suggestions and some discussions that deserve to be answered in this brief address. Questions concerning members of national councils and how they are formed. Here, I must admit, the dilemmas were significant and great because these dilemmas were also dilemmas of the cultural consequences themselves when listening to the bill and there was no uniqueness, and I believe it is difficult to make a proposal that would be best and that everyone would agree with. This proposal we delivered seems to be the least bad. It is possible that, in the coming period, with the establishment of what we call a regulation that should follow this law, it is possible to formulate an exact way of formulating the composition and members of the National Council. One thing that also seems interesting to me in this debate, and I am sure it will be adopted by our parliament, is this idea of a cultural development strategy. I agree with MPs who said that the three-year strategy is very short, that four years doesn't seem good enough, that five years is the measure we could discuss. Of course, there are also visionary suggestions that talk about culture for 10, why not 20 years. We are going to try to put this proposal in the text of the law in a way that has been delivered. There were questions that were very specific, whether or not and how to treat cultural heritage. It is mentioned culturally as a sacral, as a Serbian cultural heritage, etc. Cultural heritage is part of a particular culture that is created in these areas and as such becomes much more visible, becomes a culture of the world. We are proud to have eight monuments on the list of world cultural heritage on the territory of RS right now. Four are on the territory of Kosovo, and that's a special concern for our ministry. I am very determined to reject any insinuation made during this session regarding the idea that the Ministry of Culture does not care about the cultural heritage in Kosovo. I've been to Kosovo several times within my mandate. I've been to the Roast Patriarchy, the gnome, and the Metohia. I've spoken to SPC representatives, the people who live there, and we're all aware of how much it may have taken to make this situation easier and easier. But this does not mean that the Ministry of Culture through its competent institutions, the Institute for the Protection of Monuments, the Republic, and in collaboration with the SPC will not do everything within its capabilities and power to help protect, to make this endangered cultural heritage more visible and thus contribute to the culture mission in those areas. In any case, the remarks concerning the role and place of the church in our law are treated in relation to the already existing Law on Churches and Religious Communities. The law on culture does not derivate the provisions of this already existing law. In this existing law, in Article 9, the church is treated as a legal person, and we do not see that this law has brought us into any kind of cohesion. Besides, I accept every good idea and idea that can contribute to the quality of this law. I'm sure we can all make culture more respected, be treated better in our society. On my part, as well as the Ministry of Culture, with your support, I hope, with the adoption of this law, I will feel better as someone who can be a lawyer of culture and who can advocate some solutions that will be better in the next period. We are aware that there is no perfect law and this law will likely be the subject of discussion, as well as in a long series of years. I remind you that since 2003 there has been an intense discussion about our law on culture, that the previous law has been passed since 1992. If we keep waiting, there's a lot of things we won't be able to get back to normal. The issue of cultural institutions, the issue of a permanent working relationship with occasional engagement, are all topics covered by this law in one way that does not go at any time in the face of other modern European and reference laws that exist in the surrounding countries. Compared to the other laws we have in our society, it refers precisely to the direction towards common good and to human values.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-22-0.u25118	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This concludes today's work. The session continues tomorrow, July 23rd, at 10:00 p.m. After determining the quorum, the course of the session was arranged by Article 235. Rules of Procedure, requests for clarification and notice of MPs, and then we move to discussion in detail on the third item of the agenda - Proposal for a law on co-operation with the International Criminal Court. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 93 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions necessary for the work of the National Assembly. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the Assembly shall work in accordance with Article 235(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when MPs use the right to seek information and explanations on the basis of that member. The right to request an explanation or to request a notification shall be given to authorised representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups. I ask the MPs who want to use their right to register in the electronic system. The word has the People's MP Đuro Peric. Here you go.
