ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24512	Thank you, Madam President, for finally getting my word to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am reporting under Rule 79 of Section 2 and Section 3 concerning the Committee's work. As a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection and I and my colleague, Milan Dimitrijevic, of the DSS Parliamentary Group, this time we are again disabled to separate our opinion on the Committee and to discuss on the Committee on an extremely important law, such as the establishment of the Environmental Protection Fund, because this law has been put into a package that you have made extremely important laws, although logically it has nothing to do with what you have put in place. On the other hand, we will not even have a chance to comment on this law at this time, because some other laws that are much more important in this area will cover this law. The only way was to exclude the Committee's opinion and to have the right to say a word about it anyway, because we think it's very important. On the other hand, we also expected Mr. Minister who was our colleague and who understood the importance of all this to support the Committee. That board was scheduled on Friday. He was cancelled shortly before the Committee's very beginning and again we have no chance to comment on it here. Our parliamentary rights are being taken away from us. I spoke here several times, when it came to environmental laws, the moment the amendments from that area were defended, the Committee on Environmental Protection was held at the same time. Since it's impossible to be in two places at the same time, we've been disabled again. I ask you, that as President of Parliament, and I would like you to hear me, since you obviously have some other business to do, you can take account of it and you cannot deny the MPs the right to do what they have been given to these Rules of Procedure in such a way as to defend them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24513	In today's day, you didn't finally get the word, but you got the first word, before anyone, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I followed you all the time, of course, but also the suggestion of Vice President Natasa Jovanovic I had to accept it because it was important to work here. Surely you are right that the bodies of the National Assembly should function and ask the MPs to respond to their obligations. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a joint principle search. I give my word to Mr. Minister, Dr. Dulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24514	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, dear friends, at the very beginning I would like to mention the big action "Let's Clean Serbia", which I believe you are familiar with, which was initiated by this ministry. In order for this action to be well received and to prepare the basis for Serbia to become and remain a clean country, only a few months ago I had the honour of explaining a set of 16 environmental laws in this home. Today we are doing another great, I would say, and a historic step in the process that we can call – a major preservation of Serbia's spatial development. I want to say right away that Serbia's great storage cannot be reduced to law-making. First, we have an obligation to bring an enormous number of sublegal acts, which will detailed the procedures and processes that Serbia needs to make a regulated country. These sublegal acts are for the first package of law 188, and for the package of laws that you will adopt these days over 60. But changing Serbia's face requires much more effort than changing the rules. First and foremost, it requires respect and law enforcement, as well as a change in our relationship to the area in which we live today. These two things, respect for regulations and a more responsible relationship to the space that surrounds us, are things that most of the regulated countries mean. In Serbia, they are among the biggest problems of our transition. Fortunately, we have a plan regarding both of these challenges. The elements of that plan regarding respect for the law are next. Our commitment is to make the rules as simple as possible and reduce the burden and costs of respecting the rules for both citizens and the economy, as much as possible, without jeopardizing the space where we all live. The second point of the plan is that what is the law, or regulation, is really the law, and that we will insist on its implementation. No one should question this country's determination to apply its laws. As far as our relationship to living space is concerned by our citizens, the third point of our strategy is to work here from the basics, and our foundation is children. We want the system of values of our children to reflect the fact that the issue of the arrangement of the space in which their present and their future live is at stake. So education and education on space, if it doesn't already start in the family, must start from the earliest school age. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to present to you with a little more detail that this package of laws will contribute to Serbia becoming a state-of-the-art. The proposal for a law on regulation of space and construction provides for broad and far-reaching reforms in this area, which rest on four pillars. Insisting on the coverage of Serbia's entire territory with planned documents, the regulation of property-legal relations on building land, a simpler procedure for issuing building permits and a more efficient process for legalising buildings. The lack of planning documents is a source of the arbitration of the administration in deciding who can build in Serbia and who can't. This arbitration is the basis of all corruption in the field of construction. Regarding this problem, the bill provides for a double strategy. On the one hand, the number of mandatory planning documents is reduced, the number of mandatory spatial plans has been reduced from five to four, and the number of mandatory urban plans has been reduced from four to two, or three in exceptional situations. As the goal that this is to achieve is to facilitate the obligations of state authorities, including local self-government, to meet the obligations related to the planning documents. Another way to ensure better coverage of Serbia's territory is to introduce more effective sanctions for those units of local self-government that do not meet their legal obligations. Local leadership, which is unable to secure the adoption of two mandatory planning documents, is unable to carry out its basic duty to local self-government. The deadlines we predicted for this job were carefully measured. They're real and doable. Therefore, there will be no justification for those local leaderships who intend to wake up in a year or two and say that there is not enough time or resources to make plans. On the contrary, work on the adoption of plans must take place immediately after the law enters into force, especially when it comes to the fact that the issue of building permits will only be possible on the basis of the planning documents. Local self-government which does not adopt two mandatory planning documents, which are the spatial plan of the unit of local self-government and the general regulation plan within 18 months and 24 months respectively, will not be able to issue either local or construction permits. The second pillar of the reform concerns the regulation of property-legal relations on building land. The bill envisions a deep and far-reaching reform in the area. The most important newspaper is the creation of conditions for the implementation of the new Constitution, according to which the building land can be in all forms of property. This bill allows rightholders to use and lease long-term rights to convert that right into property rights. In doing so, earlier owners of nationalised assets are predicted to have the right to property on construction land of the fee now have the right to use without compensation. On the other hand, those who are entitled to use construction land acquired through privatisation processes will have to pay compensation for this conversion. This proposal provides for the amount of compensation to be determined on the basis of the only fair criterion, based on the difference between the market value of the building land and the price paid for its acquisition. I'm sure it's not possible to suggest a model of conversion that would be fairer and more enforceable than this given in the bill of law that is before you today. The third pillar of the reforms adopted by this law is to simplify the process of issuing building permits. The World Bank reference list, comparing the quality of the world's legal framework for innovation, places Serbia 94th among the 181 world economy. That place isn't good and it has to change. But the fact that Serbia is inaccessible 171 when it comes to obtaining building permits is the alarm that called us for a deep reform of this procedure and a list of rational priorities. Simpler procedures for obtaining building permits have two important purposes. The first is to improve the competitiveness of the economic environment in Serbia, and the second is to reduce the cost and time of waiting for a building permit and thus to stop the practice of illegal construction from becoming a rule and become a socially unacceptable anomaly. Acceleration of the construction process will be provided in the following way: increasing the number of objects for which no construction permit is issued, making a difference in the scope of the technical documentation by type of object, removing one phase in obtaining the works necessary for construction, by issuing the building permit after obtaining the location permit, only the main project is attached, leading to a double time of obtaining the building permit and less price for the construction of the project, the portability of the building permit and the greater responsibility of all participants in the process, where the designer and the performer of the technical control are liable to criminal responsibility, if they verify the main project which has been carried out contrary to the construction rules of the location permit. The last, fourth pillar of the new law is the legalization procedure. Legalization of objects is an important objective of this law and those who have objects that are yet to be legalized can expect much from it. If in Serbia the number of illegally built buildings is estimated at about a million, it will not be that all these citizens, with their families and friends who helped them build, are criminals. It would rather be that the system was such that the citizens were forced into breaking the law if they wanted to provide a roof over the head for their families. This law will regulate the legalisation of objects in a much more efficient way than is now the case. The ministry's intention is to make legalisation mass and fair, with mass meaning that all the facilities for which there is a possibility will be legalized with a minimum of documentation. Fair legalisation means that there will be differences in the amount of compensation between buildings built for their own needs and buildings built for the market. It is imperative to end all legalisation procedures in two years from the date of entry into force of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the current state of construction is costing us all a lot. Because of the lack of planning documents, unresolved ownership relations on building land and the long-term issue of construction permits, with a high degree of corruption, our citizens and the state of Serbia pay a large price. Young people who plan to buy an apartment pay the price of squares, which is higher than in most European countries because of various monopolys and included costs of corruption. Citizens who want to build their roof over their heads face a procedure they can't even guess how long it'll take. Investors who consider investing in Serbia the first thing they hear is that they cannot acquire property on land, but only the right to rent. Every day in an extension of this system, costs and losses are accumulated, and economic recovery slows down and delays. Each of us should contribute to making Serbia come out of the economic crisis more competitive, as a destination for investment than it has entered the crisis with a legal framework that will allow citizens to build faster and more efficiently and cheaply. This law is one of the most important steps to achieve this. The next act, which I have the honour of explaining to you, is the bill on social housing. The definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to create conditions for dynamic economic growth and European integration, but not to forget those who, without the support of the state, would be condemned to chronic poverty and life below the human dignity line. With that in mind, after almost 20 years of complete inactivity, the state is returning to the social housing sector by this law. Many reasons for the adoption of social housing laws, and most generally it can be said that the area of social housing is almost entirely regulated, and that the changes that took place in fiscal legislation have significantly deteriorated the conditions for the development of this sector, abolishing sources of funding for social housing. Also, according to laws governing the affairs of local self-government, the launch of housing programmes has mostly been transferred to their jurisdiction, but without predicting real resources to fulfil these tasks. This results in continued non-resolvement of social housing needs and accumulation of problems. Along with the general decline in living standards, housing needs have increased significantly in the very part of the population that needs support in resolving the housing issue. The purpose of the law is to provide conditions for sustainable development of social housing, i.e. to find appropriate ways to address housing issues that cannot provide housing under market conditions. This law first and foremost establishes the basis, institutional preconditions and strategic framework for the development of the social housing system in the Republic of Serbia in order to address housing issues more effectively and the category of population. The national social housing strategy should define the main objectives of the government's socio-resident policy, as well as the appropriate measures and priorities for achieving these objectives. It will represent a framework for the adoption of concrete programmes on the basis of which the financial plan will be adopted and the various sources of funding animated. This kind of funding program provides good visibility and flexibility, as well as the ability to control, which is particularly important for the functioning of this system. Local housing strategies will identify local social housing needs and the interest of municipalities to solve housing problems. The housing programmes stemming from local strategies will form the basis for the issue of funding for these needs in the local budget, but also for obtaining additional funding from the republican level for their realisation, which will depend on how much they are included in national priorities. It is important to say that users of social housing rights will be defined by this law, and according to the following criteria of the order of the championship – housing status, remuneration height, health status, disability, physical damage and the number of household members. The next act we propose to the National Assembly as part of a package of regulations, which aim at a major preservation of Serbia's spatial development, is a proposal for a law on state diameter and catastro. Meeting European integration, Serbia is in a position to adopt a modern European law on state-owned diameter and cataster, which brings up-to-date solutions and which is fully in line with all European standards in this area. The application of the Act of State Crossing and the cadastre and the registration of the right to immovable property has been applied for 15 years. Meanwhile, there have been significant technological and other changes on the one hand, while on the other hand the growing demands of the economy and citizens for greater efficiency of the cadastrian system are growing. The new Law on State Prime Minister and Catastro contains standards that will meet the new modern challenges that all observed shortcomings in the current law have been addressed. The law will increase the security, accuracy and transparency of all records kept by the Republic Geodetic Institute, and in particular the registration of immovable property and real rights over them in the building block. This law has given state diameter its full meaning and its European dimension through a new classification. The new cadastrian diameters will be realised in order to establish a cadastrian immovableity, especially in areas with old state diameters carried out at the end of the 19th century, and thus Serbia will receive an up-to-date and up-to-date cadastrian record. This law modernly regulates the area of topographic diameter and cartographic performance in Serbia. Data solutions are adapted to technical and technological achievements in this area and are in line with European standards. The harmonisation of the law with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia has defined the jurisdiction of the Republic Geodesy Institute as a civil institution over the diameter of the state border and the keeping of the register of state borders. The building site has been established so far, i.e. 82% of Serbia's territory, i.e. in 89% of the catastrian municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. In order for this job to be successfully implemented in general by the end of 2010, the new law allows for faster creation of a catastra of immovableity, through the simplification of cadastrian procedures, the possibility of creating a catastra of immovableity at the individual request of the owner, as well as the application and introduction of new information technologies. The law also introduces a new state reference system that provides a very precise positioning of parcels, objects, water, topographical details in space, with an accuracy of several centimeters, thanks to the application of global navigation satellite systems. This system will be used to the greatest extent by private geodetic organisations, which will take time for geodetic measurements on the ground, for example, to record the newly built building, to be multiplely shorter, and only measurement will be much more accurate. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to explain to you - a bill on the environmental fund, which I expect to become one of the most active factors in achieving the goal I announced at the beginning of this address, which is – a major preservation of Serbia's spatial development. According to one review of the state of the UN environment, the government should revise short- and medium-term budgetary plans on the distribution of environmental protection funds. The aim is to ensure that an adequate part of public revenues is directed to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, as well as to the Environmental Protection Fund, as well as to strengthen the Environment Fund to human and financial resources. The Environmental Protection Fund was established by the Environmental Protection Act to provide financial resources to promote protection and promotion of the environment in the Republic. Its establishment is in line with all the recommendations we have received from adequate international institutions. Experience from transition countries shows that the establishment of the Environment Fund has enabled the collection of significant funds and acted as a catalyst for important investments, through the approval of favourable loans and grants to invest in environmental protection. In these countries, the operations of the Fund are governed by a special law and we follow that practice. This proposal regulates the functioning of the Fund on a new basis, given that a set of laws in the field of environmental protection has established new incomes, and thus new competences of the Fund. In this connection, the need for a new concept of operation, i.e. organisation of waste and packaging business, fisheries, as well as other areas, has arisen. The proposal achieves the general objectives set out in the law, i.e. the correct application of established principles – the integration of the policy of protection and improvement of life and economic policy and the application of economic instruments and other measures promoting the quality of the environment; the application of the principles is ensured – the pay polluter, in accordance with EU standards and the recommendations of relevant international organisations. This focuses on sources of pollution and opens up the possibility of applying economic instruments and other measures that improve the quality of the environment. This should lead to an increase in the level of investment in the environment in order to cover the costs of work, maintenance, modernisation and expansion of existing infrastructure in the field of environmental protection and pollution reduction technologies. This law introduces new mechanisms for the use of funds from the Fund, through incentive measures, which are planned by means of a set of environmental laws. It also provides for the possibility of initiating and self-managing projects by the Fund, in order to respond more effectively to the present problems in the environment. New funding instruments are introduced that meet the needs of the modern economy, as well as the new competences of the Fund, such as the provision of services from the work cycle. As one measure of rationalising business in the current conditions, a reduction of the control apparatus is proposed. The number of board members is reduced from seven to five, and the supervisory board is abolished because the ministry is overseeing the work. Ladies and gentlemen, with thanks for the attention you have given to this set of laws of long-term importance for our country's development and the special gratitude for the amendments you have submitted, many of which we consider not only acceptable but also very useful, we would like to invite you to vote in favour of the laws that have been proposed to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24515	To inform you that the representative at these points of the LDP will be Mrs Judita Popovic, as well as to remind you, I gave that notice on Friday – that we will be in direct transmission until 1800 hours. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Sign up. Mr Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24516	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Minister Dulic, I will exercise my right and in the capacity of the President of the Committee on the Labour of Fight and Social Affairs, I will only speak of one of the four laws that we have united under today's principle debate, which is the social housing law. First of all, I would like to point out that this sector, the social housing sector, has so far been completely unregulated. That's what the distinguished Ministry gentlemen know very well. That's where he lies, I'd say, and the basic reason for this bill. Changes in fiscal legislation have significantly made conditions worse for the development of this sector, as all sources of funding for social housing have almost been abolished. Thirdly, in laws regulating the activities of local self-government, the launch of housing programmes has mostly been transposed into their jurisdiction, but without realistic sources of resources to carry out this very important task. It has only, unfortunately, increased the number of those who cannot solve social and housing needs. The economic crisis and the general decline in living standards have further led to a significant increase in these needs in that part of the population that needs support to address housing problems. Serbia is a country with a high percentage of poor people, whose incomes are barely enough for food, for medicines and rent for housing, most often in the worst possible and unconditional accommodations. Not to mention this in the Roma population that is in unsanitary settlements, which is not legalized, which pulls, as we know, a whole series of problems and pains. These people usually don't even have a residence application, they don't have ID cards, they haven't even had health insurance until recently. People with disabilities, who are certainly the hardest to deal with, besides the fact that they live in unconditional apartments because of small incomes, are most often unable to take care of themselves in the way healthy people do, who can get up on their own, bathe themselves, train themselves, go out to the store, cook lunch or dinner, etc. All these men, distinguished ladies and honourable fellow MPs, are deeply aware of their torments and misfortunes, and every day live with that knowledge, unfortunately, that they are discriminated, rejected, abandoned, that life is somewhere else, and so basically end their lives. The state is obliged to take care of social justice, the ban on discrimination, human dignity, the rights of the child, and also the creation of conditions for the duties of parents in relation to the education and education of their children. The state is also obliged to take care of human health and social protection, which are violated in poor or non-existent housing conditions. That is why this law is needed to help the family, but also the individual, to solve the problem of housing, because they are not able to provide an apartment on market terms. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs supports this concept of law, but is a prerequisite for its implementation and implementation of the entire project to adopt a national strategy and unit strategy of local self-government, as long-term, short-term and annual programmes, as well as four sublaws. I would like to point out this at the enormous and unselfish assistance we have received from the representatives of NGOs, Group 484, the Urban Development Programmes, as well as the Citizens' Protector, Mr Saša Jankovic. Since 24 April of this year and the round table on the development of social housing, board members have worked with ministry representatives to promote, but also to improve and improve the text of the law today. 61 amendments have been filed. They will, of course, be debated when we discuss in particular, but we have already received assurances from the representatives of the ministries, or the promoter, that a good part of these amendments will be accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I would like to keep your attention to, in my opinion, the most important part of this law, which is criteria for achieving the order of the championship and to draw attention to one problem, this is the problem of the narrow and bureaucratic awareness of certain people who carry out the procedure to distribute social housing or to elaborate the criteria for their assignment. I'll give you one example. In a previous apartment distribution contest in Belgrade in 2007, a fellow citizen named Ljiljana Ignjatovic, who is a disabled, dystrophysic, is immobilised and in a wheelchair, has been practically disqualified because she had no need for a home from the interior ministry for at least five years, which was the condition of the competition. It is about a woman who is a refugee, who contributed besides refugee legislation and confirmed that from 1995 to 2005, she lived as a refugee at the "thousands of Roses" hotel near Belgrade. The same woman in 2005 received citizenship from the Republic of Serbia, which means that the MUP acknowledged that she had been resident in Serbia from 1995 to 2005. But the officials said it's not a formal confirmation of a residence in the MUP and they're not interested in anything else. So, what I'm saying is, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members, it's important that we pass a good law, but more importantly that these criteria, Mr. Minister, will be developed by sublegal acts, as well as by being applicable to the general population of socially endangered people, in order not to be at the expense of the people who are being competitiond and called out, and who, by all means, would have to have a priority as a particularly unhappy group of people. My opinion is, personally and directly to Minister Oliver Dulic, that every other distribution of dwellings in the state sector must be suspended, above all I think of the government's regulation on the assignment of apartments to elected, appointed persons and other employees in state bodies. Anyone who isn't socially endangered has to get the apartment on the market, and that's the only way we're gonna prove that we're a socially responsible and just state. Finally, I would like to point out that when defining the policy and social housing strategy, it is also necessary to establish a link to this issue at regional level, i.e. with the spatial development of the Serbian state. A highly unbalanced regional development and a threatened demographic picture of Serbia can only be improved by a careful social housing strategy, but unfortunately they can be further worsened, if a careless social housing policy at a regional level would further increase the attractiveness of developed and urban centres, particularly the city of Belgrade. That is why it is necessary for the social housing strategy to become part of a broader development concept and to be in line with the regional, or spatial development strategy of the Serbian state. This law, I think, is a good basis for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24517	Does the People's MP Bojan Mladenovic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24518	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the law on the regulation of space and construction is concerned, the first drawback of this law is the very name of this law. I find it far better to be the name of the previous law, which is the Law on Planning and Construction. All spatial planners agree that the word "planning" should not have been deleted from the title of this law. As far as the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, I think it is extremely important for all citizens of Serbia, as well as for the Republic of Serbia. In this law, it is not limited to how many years it must be passed, so the SRS has proposed an amendment to limit it to a maximum of 25 years, so that we do not get into a situation to bring the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia for a period of 50 or 70 years, which is an extremely high deadline. As for the spatial plan of units of local self-government, it states that it contains particularly parts of the territory for which urban planning and urban project are envisaged. I don't think it should stand here - an urban project, because at the level and scale of the local self-government unit's spatial plan, from one to 25 to one to 50,000, it's not possible to predict even spatially determine the parts of the territory that need to be done by an urban project that's ranging from one to 500,000. Also, in this law we have more mistakes, we have in Articles 20 and 22 that the already defined content repeats itself in Article 29. Also, what I find extremely important is that, for the spatial plan of the unit of local self-government and the general urban plan, as it stands here, there is a previous consensus before reference to public insight, as well as agreement on those plans before the publication of the minister responsible for matters of spatial planning and urbanism. I find it absolutely unnecessary to give consent to a plan document adopted by the authority in accordance with its competences. Consent opens up the possibility of abuse of position, delaying procedures and opening the possibility of corruption. An individual, even if he was a minister, should not decide on documents adopted by the competent authorities, especially as there are other documents for the control of legality, the drafting of plans, such as the Commission for Plans, the urban inspector, the higher order planning documents, etc. In particular, we know in Serbia what is happening and that there is a possibility that the minister from one party will not want to give consent to one of the plans of the municipality because there is a completely different political option there. Also, I believe that spatial planners in Article 38 are damaged, where it says that responsible urbanists can be a person with acquired higher education in basic studies for at least five years, and why not four years? Why can graduate space planners who graduated from college 15 years ago or 20 years ago not, as so far, be responsible urbanists, why are they denied this right? It also states here in the law that construction land, among other things, can be the one on which buildings are built contrary to the law and land on which only temporary objects are built. I think this definition is completely wrong, that unbuilt building land can only be the one on which there are absolutely no objects. Furthermore, as regards the technical examination of the facility carried out after the construction of the facility, it does not appear within the law what time limit it is to carry out the technical examination. We have suggested that it be 30 days, because we believe it is extremely important that there is no delay in carrying out that technical examination when the facility is finished. We believe that this law has many shortcomings and therefore the SRS has proposed a large number of amendments. I hope that the ruling majority will adopt a large number of amendments and will thus improve this law on planning and arrangement of space and construction.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24519	Did the MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandar Pejcic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, want a word? Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24520	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Madam President, the NS parliamentary group cannot support the proposed laws. I'm not going to do much of an analysis of the law itself, but one of the motives that is justified and that has defined us not to support this set of laws is certainly a large number of citizens who have addressed our parliamentary group, in particular letters, asking not to support these laws and clearly explaining why they should not be supported. I'll read just one letter that came from the city where I came from, from Somboro, the Siškovic family, so that it's simply an illustration of our decision not to support this set of laws. "I address you on behalf of our family with a request to return to us with communist violence taken away building land. In order to be able to return land at no cost to the budget, it is necessary to prevent this land from being given to authorised individuals, tycoons, by the Government's proposal for a law on the arrangement of space. Unlike the apartments and individual business premises that changed owners, the seized building land is still in state property today and can return to the property of our family and other families that have been robbed in the same way. Most of the building land is not sought and will remain available to the state, or municipalities. The remaining building land not sought by owners must be served as a compensation for giving in the property of persons who cannot return land, cases where their land is used for public purposes and is in public use, streets, squares, sidewalks, parks or the like. Therefore, it is necessary to protect this land from any direct or indirect burden until the end of the implementation of the restitution law. The government's proposal for a law on regulation of space and construction does not contain this protection, but rather for criminal and corrupt reasons enables extremely unfounded wealth for privileged individuals to benefit all citizens of Serbia. This proposal, as proposed, is a dominant service for crime, politics, justice and so on. the businessman. The draft also does not provide for the restitution of building land for persons who, according to the Rehabilitation Law, have been rehabilitated to what problem the National Assembly warned in March 2009. The aim of this well-organised criminal group is to turn private property of citizens, who has been forcibly taken from citizens, with corruption, into the private property of a few privileged and similar citizens, as well as in the existing procedure so-called. privatization of social property. From everything out of the blue, the law on the regulation of space and construction would have to be proposed, adopted after or earlier at the same time as the restitution law and with amendments that must ensure effective protection of the declared and requested construction land. We ask that representatives of your parliamentary group and you personally, by not accepting this point when setting the agenda at the next extraordinary session, oppose this criminal and Serbian citizens the devastating streak of criminals. The submission and acceptance of amendments that would effectively enable protection and then natural restitution of the requested building land and prevent the unfounded wealth of the privileged individuals to the detriment of Serbian citizens would make this proposal acceptable. With respect, the Šiškovic family from Somboro."
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24521	Mr. Pejcic has a word. Here you go. I have to ask you to repeat or take another microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24522	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Ministry's representatives, I have issued my opinion on the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, and on the social housing law. I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, that you didn't show up on that Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs that you were personally presenting this law to us, because we had so many questions to ask you, but the law was presented by your State Secretarys. I must begin by saying that this law has brought great attention to the citizens of Serbia, and great attention and particularly to some social categories that are not included in this law. In that sense, I would like to ask you some questions on behalf of the citizens of Serbia. For years, a large number of Serbian citizens have allocated funds through social funds for residential construction, and they never got their own apartment from the state. On the principle of social justice, will they through this law be able to exercise these rights and will they be able to get their own apartment? Since we see through this law that their rights cannot be fulfilled, I ask you – can through the principle of national strategy, when we adopt this national housing strategy, will it be included? The other thing is, there is no explicit mention of internally displaced persons, refugees, and you know that Serbia has a large number of refugees. It's not your fault or mine that they're here, it's the unfair wars that were waged by both the state and how they expected to help them, in terms of building their homes or buying at some cheaper prices of apartments. We also need to take care of the people from the reading, who will return here to Serbia. You know that Serbia has passed that law and a large number of asylum seekers will come here to Serbia. Normally, they should also be offered to buy apartments by some social categories. I'd put war fighters here since 1991, as well as disabled wars since 1991, who have fought and bled for this country, again I say in some unjust wars. Normally, there should also be an accent on the families of the dead fighters, who should also get apartments, either free of charge or at some lower social price. You have also foreseen this law to form national agencies and local agencies. That's what interests me. They're non-profit organizations. I come from a town that already has a local agency, it's Leskovac. You and I already talked about it once. By the way, our President of the Municipality of Slobodan Kocic wants to put an end to the agency, so I wonder if he is the dissident of this government or your ministry and have you been in contact with them, will this agency ever survive? The agency has outlined its plan, a project in the Assembly, which was accepted, however, the upheaval of our mayor in the sense that the agency must be shut down, has already put that point on the agenda already for the next assembly. In that sense, I'm asking you if you're going to suggest, and that's what you're interested in, how the people of Leskovci, give up that idea of yours? And in the end, I would remind you that the DSS MPs have tabled a large number of amendments. They were all founded, too much, and how they could improve this text of the law. In this regard, we hope that you will consider all these amendments and that by adopting these amendments you will get one quality law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24523	Among the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, Mr Sinisa Stamenkovic, who has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24524	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, the President-in-Office, today, in this set of laws, we are considering editing space and building objects, the basics of state diameter and catastra, then social housing, as well as the establishment of a environmental fund. I must point out that PUPS has worked extremely hard, with impatience expecting this very set of laws because of a huge social category of people who haven't solved their housing issue. The law governing space and construction; normally, the state of Serbia has a major accident that about 80% of its territory is not covered by relevant plans, such as spatial plans, general urban and detailed urban plans and other acts. When a country has only 20% of the long-term plan cover, there is a mass of problems for investors, authorities, construction operations and customers. This thin plank cover creates very suitable ground for corruption of all kinds. There is no political option in this House of People's Parliament that does not insist on finally seducing order in Serbia in the arrangement of space and in the construction itself. Introducing order and justice, as well as creating a favourable environment for a new, law-based, investment is the only possible definition for all of us. This assembly must do everything to speed up the adoption of urban plans, to issue legal building permits, to resolve legal and property relations by strict procedure and finally legalise over half a million different objects. The hesitation of society, the lack of regulation, as well as the legal vacuum in this area, produced us enormous corruption in construction, bankruptcy of many construction operators, serious refusal of ino and domestic investors to invest in a turbulent market, in which many citizens were robbed. This law can significantly reduce the process of obtaining building permits and significantly reduce the scope of the documentation submitted to the administrative state authorities. The rules of conduct of all participants in the procedure of building and editing the premises of this law must be fully clear, they must be tightened to this extent to prevent any possible abuse, and in particular to preserve a high degree of technical and security responsibility of the designers and investors for the buildings. The PUPS parliamentary group respects and understands the difficulties that all of us will face, and in particular the difficulties that the ministry will have in defining and legalising the right to use building land that many citizens are now using in the right of property on building land. Switching from user to owner will be a long and very painful process for this society and the state. The PUPS is responsible and fully understands and supports the need to urgently speed up the legalisation process of illegally built buildings by May 2003. We believe there are more than 500,000 facilities for which applications have been filed. If it is known that 16% of objects have been legalised so far in seven years, then it is clear that the hesitations can no longer be, that the procedure must be accelerated, that the administration must be terminated and the procedure terminated. Legalisation of buildings built by 2003 must be done according to strict criteria and according to the same ones that the citizens legally built during that period, respecting the legal procedure, which is why they paid four to five times more, unlike those who do not have any document or any paper. Objects built in the area of a large number of protected natural resources and national parks, either on a foreign country or on thorny and unstable bases, must be fully defined by this law. In particular, the PUPS argues that all investors who built buildings without authorisation to legalise objects pay the highest price for legalisation, which should not be lower than the amount of profits achieved in this way and at a criminal threat to the threat of forced confiscation of profit assets. The parliamentary group believes that the issue of the price of legalisation of the facilities cannot be in the jurisdiction of municipalities, but that the ministry must prescribe its regulation through the legalisation frameworks for all Serbia, from to to, uniformly for all, with valid parameters. In particular, we advocate that this law prevents the conversion of the right to use building land in property rights for all owners of privatised enterprises in the privatisation process, so that tycoons and new owners are obliged to pay the multiple market value of the building land they want to register on their own behalf and resell to change the purpose of that land, and so far they are allowed to do so by the Privatisation Act. The tycoons, newly-compromised bosses, construction and residential mobsters used the indeterminateness of the privatisation law artificially to create the most expensive city building land in Europe, and thus the unreal high and green price of a square meter of residential and business space. Mr. Minister, you and your associates and all the competent authorities in Serbia's municipalities and cities must do everything possible to re-supply the market price of land and the difference between the unreally high price of squares of residential area correct and halt further robbery of disbursed citizens. Unsolved property-legal issues about land in Serbia must be resolved permanently and adequately. The Serbian Constitution recognises that city building land can only exist as private, public or state property. This law is just creating a basis for the development of these forms of property, as well as all forms of legal and property issues that must soon be defined. For the definition of the normative, but also the economic part of this set of issues, it is not enough just to hire this ministry, to the full extent that the republican and geodetic administration, all courts, and in particular the tax administration, must be engaged because of the land price assessment. We warn of the proper application of the universal legal standard, which now determines in Serbia that ownership of the facility is automatically owned over building land. One who owns the property, owns the land, and thus develops new legal and property relations, comes to the general amnesty of customers and harmful privatisations, does not limit size and does not form a building plot, citizens do not have the same rights under the law. Dear gentlemen, the PUPS parliamentary group would like to point out in particular the problem of restitution and the rights of former legal owners of building land and buildings on it, which are not yet defined by this law. The proposal to establish a restitution fund that will be filled by converting the right of use of construction land into property rights or ownership over that land may give some effect, but this will not be enough from afar for the right compensation to previous owners. Converting property rights to earlier owners on unbuilt building land is a good attempt to correct the old injustice, with no need to allow some new, uncontrollable. A positive shift in this law and certainly its value is finally the right to purchase state land when private property is recognised over land. The State Prime Minister's Law and the Catastro and the registration of rights to immovable property is a technical law which has already been applied for 15 years, but with certain shortcomings that must be addressed at this time in order to introduce a concept of a unique record of immovableities and rights over them in the Republic of Serbia. The harmonisation and harmonisation of current rules on the diameter and categorisation of immovableity with EU countries are a technical issue, without which investment cannot be carried out, harmonisation of legal and property relations, as well as the harmonisation of technical standards in design. Realisation of all the laws on ratification of the development agreement is impossible without the implementation of the right cadastre of immovableity and rights records over them. The law should also remove minor or greater discrepancies for the work of state and private geodetic organisations, as well as significantly increase the safety and accuracy of entry into the immobility cadasar for the proper conduct of legal and property relations, administrative and judicial proceedings and disputes. The law creates serious conditions for faster identification of owners, users and immobilisers, i.e. accelerates and improves the quality of data distribution and the provision of services to all users of the basics, without which administrations and organisations cannot be designed. The PUPS Group considers that the amendments on this law need to identify a way to introduce an assessment of the value of immovable property, as well as procedures and methods for mass assessment of values and immovableity, in co-operation with the relevant tax administrations. The establishment and management of national infrastructures, geospace data is possible with the prior provision of all conditions, the establishment of the bases of the avivimetric method, to the provision of material and technical conditions. The PUPS parliamentary group will support this law, with the desire to amend this law as soon as possible to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The social housing law, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the most important laws for all the social groups in our country. The draft social housing law was made on the basis of various documents in the first version at the end of 2004, so that only in 2007 it would be adopted by the government and sent to parliament for consideration. In the summer of 2008, the bill was referred again to the National Assembly for adoption and is in the process until today. We mean that social housing, housing of the relevant standards provided with the support of the state, and in line with the social housing strategy, the programme for the realization of the same and is intended for households and natural persons who, for social, economic and other reasons, cannot provide themselves with an apartment on market terms. The PUPS Group also considers it to be a maximum participation, in collaboration with the Group 484, a group of the Urban Development Programmes, with the Institute of Sustainable Community, and with a large number of organisations to improve social housing of endangered groups and associations of solidar housing, established common principles and concepts which would have to represent this important base system law, and this: firstly, that public intervention covers a much wider range of measures needed for social housing than proposed; secondly, that the entire system is designed to divide competences in financing social housing from the central level and implementation of housing programmes at local level; thirdly, that the system of financing of social housing is based on mandatory reimbursement of costs; fourthly, that all subsidies in the social housing system must be general and public and fifthly, that the social housing system must possess a non-performing capacity in real estate schemes. The definition of the social housing of the European Association of National Associations of Housing Organisations is binding in this area because it argues that the housing in which the approach is controlled by the existence of rules on the allocation of dwellings and aimed at households that have difficulty providing housing on the market is the only proper policy. The establishment of a domestic republican housing agency, RAS, in the opinion of international European and domestic professional associations is the best form for the existence of a national, professional and financial housing institution, which would best organise and implement a non-market and social housing directly according to the principles and concepts set out in this law, through which the issue of housing of numerous social categories of the population and refugees would be resolved. In order for RAS to play a crucial role in supporting the building of a comprehensive system of institutions and instruments for implementing non-profit social housing policies, it is necessary to adopt a new law which would do so. All professional activities, normative making, professional assistance, technical standards and technical conditions for building apartments, assistance and technical support to local self-government and all other housing organisations would be regular RAS work. The CoE Social Charter signed by Serbia in 2005, in article 31, defines the right to citizens' housing and the obligation of the state to provide a legal, institutional and financial framework, which introduces standards of adequate living space, providing measures to prevent and reduce homelessness and which state must guarantee and ensure that housing prices are accessible to those who do not have enough resources to live. After socialism, in which the state was engaged in providing living space for all employees, full and partially harmful privatisation was carried out until then built apartments and the entire living space, which has passed into private property, and the state has left Europe's social charter to the citizens to handle their own needs on a green and corrupt market. Building housing in our country has become the most profitable business activity on the border of organised crime, and the solution to the housing problem of our population has become an unattainable dream. This law provides a unique opportunity to remove all the consequences of harmful housing policy. Since 1990, when mass privatisation and the sale of the social housing fund began, all initiatives have been reduced to isolated short-term measures without sufficient housing market impact. The state has failed to become a social housing regulator, and the ultimate result of its non-interference in its own affairs has brought the most dreary truth about the dwellings of thousands and thousands of our citizens, young couples, young experts with green tenants, unsuitable and inhumane at the prices of one society. The sale of social property without the establishment of a sustainable, renewable and development fund, from which a new cycle of housing would begin, leads to the lowest degree of capacity of society and state to do anything through existing institutions and mechanisms to address social housing in the last 20 years. The release of citizens to the free housing market to address housing needs has so drastically reduced housing availability that it has fallen below 5%. The demand for apartments in cities has increased due to an uncontrollable inflow of refugees, displaced persons, readmission-returned persons, social refugees from the village to the city, so that both demand and price have entered the framework of organised blackmail, including corruption and crime. The increased generation of illegal construction, in a hurry for illegally acquired profits, in other people's torment, then anachrons, inadequate, unspecified regulations have abolished or minimized public intervention of the state and its organs. The introduction of a social housing system based on the National Strategy to address issues of refugees and internally displaced persons has not been completed since 2002, and the adoption of social housing laws should circle all the basic elements of the future system of non-market social housing at the level of the Republic and local housing policy systems at the level of municipalities. The previous programme has developed and partially in practice tried the basic structure and mechanisms of social housing through the formation of eight municipal and urban housing agencies through the first built public-owned apartments for renting, with clearly and fairly established models of funding and lending of non-profit construction, and in particular with the right to select the social housing of users of that system. Our society and state had a problem that came from the separation of Serbia-Montenegro first, and then the Solidarity Building Fund was abolished, and the funds of the fund and the apartments were now built from the fund at the expense of the Republic Property Directorate, at the Department of Real Estate Management of the former SCG State Community. The abolition of the Office for Accounting and Payments in 2003 and the transfer of payment traffic to business banks has led to the conversion of account databases. The Federal Property Directorate then ceased its work in accordance with Article 16. The Constitutional ChartersSCG, followed by the 2003 Law on the 2003 RS Budget, has been regulated to direct the funds found to the consolidated account of the Republic of Serbia's Treasury. In this way, numerous payments are made, and on the basis of previously issued documents. The fact that the funds are in the account and are not used for payment gives a good basis that they are transferred from the accounts of the Republic Property Directorate, the Property Management Department, to the newly established Republic Social Housing Fund, in which the funds would also be paid by SE Development Banks, municipal budgets, as well as by social building and social housing escort banks. Given that much of Serbia's population is not, nor will it be able to address its housing needs on the economic market, we believe it is necessary for Serbia to reintroduce a comprehensive system of public intervention in housing policy with this law. The social housing law recognises the need to resolve the social housing of a number of vulnerable groups, which are the result of all events on RS soil – persons without adequate housing, persons with no roof over their heads, homeless people, persons whose housing situation is threatened, persons who are renting apartments without legal protection, without effective contracts, persons without employment, refugees and internally displaced persons, this law sees as the only way to ensure that in the future social housing system. The proposal for a Law on the Environment Fund, in the opinion of the PUPS, is one draft law on the Fund, which, in our opinion, should be established according to the principles of objectivity and accountability and on recognised standards of good practice and the public in the work and spending of funds. It is inevitably the impression that this law is some kind of pricer that will be in line with the National Programme for the Protection of the Environment, Sustainable Development and Ecology. Strategic documents, action plans and recovery plans in the area of the environment, according to community guide rules on state aid, will be an incentive only for the purpose of achieving better pest collection effects in the environment. Through its annual work plan, the Fund must collect all responsibilities for environmental damage, all of the factors, and must finance activities in the field of basic geological research, finance environmental education programmes and, in particular, strengthen public awareness of environmental and sustainable development issues. The PUPS parliamentary group advocates public use of funds (President: Mr Stamenkovic, time). Finish your sentence. _Other Organiser with public deadlines, costs and results. We believe that the Fund should not have property, because the property must be national and public. The supervision of the Fund's work must be a regular comparison with all international experiences and controls. The PUPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the law on regulation of space and construction, land and cataster law, social housing law and environmental fund law, and technical failures and shortcomings will resolve amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24525	The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24526	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, LDP, once again, is always for laws that are of such character that they take one step forward as far as the development of society is concerned, as far as legislation is concerned. So, if this is about reform laws, we support these laws, we have to support them, because our strategy, our plan, our programme and our ideology are aimed at reforming this society. When we come from these four laws that represent this item of the agenda, we are not quite convinced that the four best solutions to regulation of the problem that makes the content of these laws are at present. I would especially refer to the proposal for a law on regulation of space and construction. The very name of this law is very strict and very seems to be an exclusive, strictly dedicated law concerning a narrow problem of editing space and building. I am a member of the first of this law and sets out our opinion, and I would have to quote this article to you, because it is very important to understand what the contents of this law are and what our fundamental objections to this law are. It says: This law regulates: the terms and arrangements and arrangements of space planning, planning and use of building land and building buildings; supervision of the application of the provisions of this law and inspection supervision; other issues of importance for planning and editing of space, editing and use of building land and for building buildings. I'm not even going to read Article 2 because it's simply irrelevant to what I'd like to tell you. So this term is so general and it doesn't touch the essence of the law, in fact, it's supposed to be the central question of this law, that it's just scary. It's scary for me as a lawyer because I've been dealing with property problems on construction land for many years, both on built and unbuilt land. This law does two things in fact. One substance is property on building land, and the other matter is actually editing space and construction. So these two substances are simply congested into one matter, with this property on construction land being regulated by members from 82 to 106. These provisions are simply lost in the sea of these characteristic members, closely specialized members related to the arrangement of space and construction. I would like to remind you that converting the right to use construction land into private property is a revolutionary act because back in 60 years we had social, or state property on building land, we had something in the sky or on the ground, something that made it quite difficult for the legal, business life of citizens in this country, because it made it quite difficult for life to take place by a normal track in terms of trade in building land, or buildings on that land. Often people were forced to cope, to avoid the law, or to do something that was contrary to the law to come to the basic goal of selling their property, which is otherwise a normal need. If we had all adhered to the law, which simply banned the transport of city building land, life would simply have stopped in Serbia and nothing could have been passed on about property rights on buildings, because often these facilities were just a cover for the transport of construction land. If it is such a revolutionary step, therefore, it is a reform of property on building land, this matter cannot be regulated by such a specific law as the law on the regulation of space and construction. We have simply missed a lot of time so far to pass laws on denationalisation, the law on restitution, the law on transfer of property rights on building land, if you want the property law on building land, therefore, the law on property in general, the law on public property, and we are passing before all this law on the arrangement of space and construction, which is intended and intended to bring order into one matter that is quite complicated and is creating very difficult difficulties for the citizens of this country. I would ask a question to the minister and to all those who have proposed this law - why was it so hasty with this law that it had not previously been regulated something which is much more general and would have been a roof law regarding property, therefore, not only for building land, but for property at all? The constitution is not enough, the Constitution is only the highest legal act in one country that actually directs laws that must be passed in order to comply with that constitution. Unfortunately, since the adoption of the Constitution in 2006, a lot of time has been missed to regulate the issue of public property and regulate the 1995 asset law, which all property rights previously owned by local self-government and the AP have been transferred to the property of the Republic of Serbia. Even in these provisions, the transitional and final ones, where it is said about which law ceases to apply to this law, I don't see where the Fund Act is in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. One of the members, this Article 103, is directly intruding into the conversion from the right to use in the possession of local self-government, i.e. the AP. So there are some misunderstandings and misunderstandings, and that's why this law will be very difficult to apply in practice, because it simply won't be possible to apply, because many solutions represent a relapse of the past. If you do not first clear the property situation, you cannot move on as far as legalization of illegally raised objects is concerned. How are you going to do this legalisation, if you cannot first clarify the question of determining the right of the previous owner, or the previous user of a parcel, and for example, you are putting aside the previous 2006 law, which regulated the way in which the construction land is not built? How are you going to legalize an illegally built facility if you do not have a defined plot, and this law provides for a way in which you will allow a plot to be formed according to the needs of the facility, and not explaining what will happen if someone else has an object on that plot owned, and this property also needs a plot area that, according to certain plans, is needed for the regular exploitation of this facility? I would like to simplify my exposure as much as possible in order to be understood not only by those who are engaged in this profession with regard to property rights of building land, i.e. the arrangements of space and construction, but also by citizens who are directly interested in the law that the Assembly rules and their lives, so that this arrangement goes in their favor, therefore, in a positive direction. With this law, we achieve only one good goal, which is to make physical and legal persons, which have buildings on city building land and whose users are, simply convert this right of use to property rights. So it seems to me to be the only provision, the only member of this law that would achieve that goal in a reform sense. I believe that the analysis of the other members only complicates the whole situation and the property rights of the building land and with regard to the arrangement of space and construction. You are, in fact, making a difference between the users of the land referred to in Article 104, which I mentioned earlier, and the users of the land which have acquired this use in privatisation, bankruptcy, or executive proceedings. This represents a really concrete and clear relapse of the past, because first of all, this is how you reverse this law one situation that is over. Legal persons who appeared in bankruptcy, executive and privatisation proceedings decided to buy a certain facility for certain money, and with this facility, the company and the rest goes to use the right of land, for a simple reason, because the facility cannot hang in the air – this facility is located on a certain area of a specific land. By solving this law, you are asking for an additional payment for the case of conversion from right of use to ownership, so all those legal entities that have acquired ownership of these facilities in state procedures for the execution of privatisation and bankruptcy. Where there is a serious plan, where there is a strategy to attract foreign investors, because foreign investors are so attracted, that we, by subsequent legal solutions, change the essence of that privatisation, that bankruptcy and that executive process. You say - the right to use land was not in traffic, it was not in traffic, it is understood. However, I would like to remind you that when something is purchased, some object is purchased together, so it is bought on this land and maybe people were invited to buy this facility, this company, to participate in these procedures, because it was appropriate for them, among other things, and where this parcel is located, where this land is located. It may have been a key driver for the purchase of these companies in privatisation, bankruptcy or enforcement. So, if you are subsequently asking to be paid, the question is, will you send a positive signal to all future investors, all future participants in privatisation, bankruptcy or executive proceedings? Will someone be willing to enter with their own capital, while at the risk of potentially having a later change in the plan of the ruling set regarding the property for which concrete money was given? I also allow the fact that there has been an ex-post mind and that it has been said – well, now, we've sold things and it's not in traffic, it can't do that now – you're buying an object once, and you're taking the right to use, and now you don't want to pay for the right to use. However, you are doing the same thing to Article 104 because those persons who have their housing also acquired that right of use, so that they may have inherited, may have bought these residential facilities another kind of facility, but they are simply converting it to the right of use in property rights. And from this, he's actually implementing an ex-post mind, he's implementing an ad hoc problem that he wants to solve with this law. I would like to point out again specifically that the law cannot solve any problems with ad hoc. The law can't apply to just one problem, the law has to have one strategy. The law must cover more matter than individual interests. I also allow this possibility that a lot of damage has been done both to this country and to social property and state property in general, etc., that is, but the law and the legislator must take care of how to further develop this country, how to avoid already made mistakes and how to make those mistakes are resolved. In this way some mistakes made in the past will not be resolved, but only new problems will be opened that will have to be solved by some new laws, but again, I note, the basic objection of this law is in fact the fact that they do not satisfy: the law on restitution, the law on property, the law on public property, the law on denationalisation. Therefore, we believe that if this law remains as it was given in the original form, without the adoption of certain amendments proposed by the LDP, it is unsustainable. Otherwise, the law on the national prime minister and the catastro is also a serious problem, because in this way we simply forget that there was a land book in Vojvodina back 300 years and that all of this is now being transferred to the cadastre, and jurisdiction is being transferred to the Catastrian jurisdiction, in one administrative procedure that in no case can achieve that quality that represented the court when it solved its property rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24527	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24528	Honored Presidents, Honorable Ministers, Government Representatives, Ladies and Gentlemen National MPs, four draft laws on the agenda today fall within the category of the most important laws: the law on the regulation of space and construction, the law on state diameter and cataster, the social housing law and the law on the Environmental Protection Fund. The most important, most sensitive laws, laws that actually provide the most challenges for this government. Given the importance of these laws, given the government's desire for Serbia to be spatially arranged, if that is the correct term, for Serbia to be covered in general, which is such a goal that no one can dispute it. Given that the law on the arrangement of space and construction is, in fact, a set of three very important laws: the law on planning, the law on building land and the law on construction, which speaks of a very complex issue, I must also say to one brave act to enter into this kind of a comprehensive solution to this matter. When it comes to editing space, I will only go through one sentence -- there is no more important thing in this area than for Serbia to be covered planically in each piece, so to speak, of space. When it comes to construction, I think that support should be given to trying to arrange it, to simplify the procedure, to make it less cost-effective. I'll get back to that question later on to point out the importance of that when I talk about a piece called illegal construction. So one very complex, very important law, but I would still raise two questions. The first question - part of the law on building land and the second question - is part of the law that speaks of construction, i.e. illegal construction. Before that, again when it comes to construction, let me just suggest. Given the importance of these laws, given that everyone cares about Serbia being a regulated country, I warn that until the end of the debate in detail, every detail is in detail, because here, as important as it is to achieve the legal basis for it, is an even more significant law enforcement. If he's beautiful, if he predicts good solutions, and he's not enforceable, we're free to talk. I have no intention of going back to the past, it's not my property, but in 2003 we listened to oaths that it would be a law that definitely governs Serbia's country, solves issues of illegal construction and so on. Let's learn from that and let's not let that story happen again. I'll warn you of just a few questions. I ask you once again to look at all those deadlines, I very much respect your desire to be brief, to see if they're real again. It's nice to be written to be brief, but if they're not real, and keep in mind that in the application of the law to thousands and tens of thousands of demands will be dealt with in the relevant authorities of the administration. There's another question, I'm not saying it's most important, but for my party, it's a very important issue, which is the participation of foreign companies and the development of technical documentation, and when it comes to building up, and when it comes to professional supervision, which we don't question, but there's one practice that's very bad at eliminating this law. What happens? Foreign companies come, compete, get a job and touch nothing alive, so that our Serbia subcontractor can work. What does he actually do? He just takes off his Kajmak without a job. We don't mind, on the contrary, having a local partner with whom they're going to do it, and not just taking off a Kajmak, but our economy to stay out of it, because otherwise it only joins in the business as a subcontractor, not as an equal participant. When it comes to building land, I think this is the topic that will bring the most attention to the public, because in this part of the law that talks about building land is not just a matter of setting up unsettled land, so what is arranged and what is unsettled, what is built and what is not built, traffic, rent, etc., here is something that, I'm free to say, is the biggest privatisation after the privatisation of the housing fund, and that's a huge fortune. The wealth of one municipality, one city is measured, in fact, by building land, and I believe that you had to have another property issue in mind, in the absence of property law, especially public property, I believe that you had in mind, if you did not, once again consider, the issue of restitution. It's all simply asking to be seen in detail, but I only want to warn two questions. Let this privatisation of building land be fair, that is the government's obligation, and socially just the same. When I say that, I mean, you absolutely deserve full support for preventing this bill from tycoonizing building land. I am simply giving the minister a chance once again to make this detail clear to the public, because the public is already irritated by many privatisations where people bought enterprises, but only because of land, for a small price, expecting that one day they remain extra capitalists only on land. We have many examples in Belgrade that the purchased agricultural land is at an extremely low price, with the knowledge that one day there will be some route, some construction, and thus create an opportunity for enormous wealth. That's what this law has to stop. Not to mention the example "PKB", "Pik Zemun", "July 7th", fruit plantation in Bolec, the Smederjev road there, etc. Our request is explicit. You have our full support to prevent any tycoonisation through the conversion of building land, by solving these issues. You'll have public support. I think there's a lot of attention to be paid here, and that's not the way it's supposed to be allowed. That you don't think wrongly that we, when it comes to agricultural combinations, are against it. Both the PKK and PIC Zemun and Dragan Markovic are agricultural combinations that have the opportunity to feed not only Belgrade. We don't mind privatizing, but the one who buys to make that food. Okay, but we're against selling it as agricultural land, and then one day it becomes building land. The second question, which will also cause great attention, is legalisation. That's one big one, I can tell you, a state problem, not to list all the details. I'd like to ask you again to come from the past law. The goal was to write down all the illegal objects, to legalize those who could be legalized, and to prevent further illegal construction. Except for the list, which I assume was done, none of these other two were done. We have one big problem as a state, a problem of lawless construction. I want to join the minister in one sentence that he said, "The system has also produced illegal construction." So not just an individual. Now, when it comes to illegal construction, one has to stop. Is this the time? Mr. Minister, I suggest you reconsider that you accept Belgrade's request to legalise illegal facilities until the day of the law. I'll tell you just one practical example. Since 2003, after regulating this by 2003, tens of thousands of illegal objects have been built. Tell me what to do with it. Who's the one who's gonna bring down tens of thousands of objects? It is a problem, there is no dilemma, but - what should be done in this country to create conditions and stop? On the other hand, I totally agree with your one statement, OK, let local self-government guarantee it's a point and I fully support it. Please reconsider that amendment, that proposal. There are tens of thousands of objects to be legalized, of course, under conditions if they can be legalized in accordance with the law. I just want to draw attention to two things. First, of course it's mass, like you said yourself, that everyone who has a right and where there's no interference needs an illegal facility to be legalized. Secondly, the most important question, Mr. Minister, I ask you to make this business very sensitive, socially fair. It doesn't matter if someone was building a house to live in it or if someone was building facilities to raise capital on the market, etc. Simply, I warn you that you have this obligation, especially by the law that the Ministry will determine the criteria, of course, it is within the jurisdiction of local self-government, but it will determine the criteria, so you now have respect for that principle. I see you've predicted up to 100 square blocks of houses. I assume you left what you left over to the municipalities, so let them see. I understand that story. I'm warning you, and I'm asking that she be socially just. At the very end, when it comes to legalization, I don't know if this law will lead to it, but it must continue to look for a solution, to seek a solution, to make the legal process for construction more encouraging, but to build lawlessly, to be easier than to build lawlessly. Because if we get used to people making it the easiest thing to do, then they'll make it quick and easy, and so on. It legalizes, the question arises -- why would people go into one process of asking for permission, etc. I repeat, and when it comes to building land, there must be no tycunisation, giving people the opportunity to get enormously rich just because they have one good desire to get the title of the land, and in legalization they need to be socially just. Very briefly, given that my colleagues will talk about it, I just want to take a brief look at the social housing law. I'll say it in one sentence - it's my party's policy. In advance, I'll be right back. Just two or three details. We've had a situation since the privatisation of the housing fund was made that people are then left to themselves to solve the housing problem on the market. We have one situation that housing was the most profitable minority, and on the other hand the availability of the apartment further and more difficult for ordinary citizens. This law needs to be settled. Again, just three notes. It applies to all people who can't handle housing under market conditions. That's where the most important question comes in -- there's something that's a priority. And the most important issue in this area is that very precise and detailed rules are assigned to these apartments. If people see it, realize it's just, fair, then they'll have even more trust in that area, that kind of business, and power. I'll finish when it comes to social housing with one more sentence. Please insist on that, social housing is not a cost, like no social measure is a cost. Social housing is an investment, an investment for the future. After all, social housing will lead to strengthening economic activity in the area, hiring people. So, besides that detail I was talking about, it concerns solving the housing needs of all those people who can't solve the apartment on market terms. After all, there is little time, and there are many important laws, and I want to support all of this, the environmental fund law, I think it is another extremely important area in Serbia. It is clear to all of us that Serbia has become colourful as a leopard's skin when it comes to black spots, in which either the land is degraded or the water is degraded, or the air is degraded. It is a problem that Serbia will face more and more and that is why it is necessary in time to take measures and address these issues. Of course, it is commendable that a whole set of laws have been passed in that area and I see this environmental fund law as one place where the funds belonging to the state will be raised, thus providing funds, a place to manage those funds, in order to actually improve the protection of the environment. All four laws, all four proposals, with one more warning, must be enforceable. Please don't look at who submitted the amendment, but if he contributes to the solution, clarification and so on, I ask you to adopt it. It's very important that the more we stand behind these laws, the easier it will be to implement them. We will support him in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24529	The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24530	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, certainly the intention of calling and starting this session with a 25-point agenda, of which 22 draft laws, have almost succeeded. When I say so, I have to support it with the following facts, that the way the media is, and through them and all the other public, kept in tension by putting the agenda on the first item of the agenda, i.e.. The proposal for a law on public information has led to other points of the agenda almost undetected, both in the media and in the public. If the success of passing a large number of laws in a relatively short time, in the way it was done, by calling and during this session, then the situation is that we have had less than 50 hours to prepare such important laws on the agenda. It is also a failure to be absent in the wider scope of the public debate, then the absence of professional public thought and of course the media that have all these days, and even today you can check in the printed media, deal exclusively with their problem, their existence, i.e. public information laws. Of course, the good way of procedure of the bill and the way in which Mr. Minister in the procedure in front of this session, or this part of the agenda, had contact with representatives of all MPs from these points of the agenda, but we must not forget the fact from not so long ago and present, that we passed some laws in March, and these days, after not four months, we had changes and additions to them. That's why we're wondering for a reason what you're doing. Also, we must not forget that from this area, the areas of planning space and construction, which I will especially base on in my speech, in 2003 was adopted so-called. The forester's law, which was slightly different from this, was the Law on Planning and Construction. The law followed, we can't help but remember, a broad media campaign, and there were not enough additions and amendments to that law from 2003, and here, after six years on the agenda, and before us MPs in this assembly came the draft law on the arrangement of space and construction. This fact alone is enough to create an unpleasant impression, and the Government, Mr. Minister, of 2003 and the Government of this 2009 is almost in the same configuration, and that impression is that the reforms in our last eight years have been a magic word to cover some other matters, and that, Mr. Minister, is also the first and most difficult remark on this bill. Because of all this and because of the overall situation of all these years, unfortunately and in these difficult times, the additionally supported difficult economic situation, and when we have not been in a similar situation, goes through these days and the rating of political parties, which from the other day shows that the SNS from its 35.4% is convincing in the first place, even in front of your party, says that we in this assembly and in this Parliament are trying not only to deal with a political story, but we are seriously working on a set of large numbers of proposals and we are trying to make the lives of Serbian citizens both through them and better with them. Therefore, the public and citizens need to know, and this will be very soon when the SNS leads this country, that we will bring debate and law-making with the largest possible public co-operation, respecting all practical and good examples, with the widest debate conducted at the core level of local self-government units, and not as some ministers want to point out, say in Belgrade, Nis or Novi Sad alone. Then we will include the professional public in all of them, but not only because of this, people from professions, chambers, professional associations, in order to satisfy their individual interests, but to make the laws more practical in this regard. This bill seeks to resolve the following issues. Questions from spatial planning, urban planning, then the Republic spatial planning agency, building land, building buildings, building permit, use of permits, licenses, exams, supervision, engineering chamber, legalisation of buildings and the authority to file sublegal acts. A less complicated language could say that the bill seeks to resolve, apart from planning and building buildings, and building land issues, issues of restitution of nationalised land and issues that are particularly important for citizens in the area of legalisation of illegally built buildings. My second objection to your ministry is that each of these five areas deserves a special law, and you have tried to put them into one law. It's really impossible with this bill to solve all the problems, and in the later speech, I'm going to try not to deal with anything other than the problem. Given the stated finding, it seems that the long-term application of this law is not its purpose, that the law is relatively ishitren, done without real impact analysis. Mr. Minister, not just a SWOT analysis is enough, i.e. Analysis of the situation is necessary for such important laws in this area and impact analysis. Only with a full impact analysis can we get to a good law. I claim that this draft does not have sufficient analysis of the effects of the application of this law. Of the 204 members of the bill, because the other 21 members regulate the powers to adopt sublegal acts by the minister, there is a matter of criminal provisions, which I would not like to enter, two chapters are dedicated to planning, and in this part of my presentation I will do a little more to address this chapter of planning. From Articles 10 to 70 regulate this area, 28 members are dedicated to spatial planning and members from 71 to 81 regulate issues of the Republic's spatial planning agency. The other members of that chapter, i.e. urban and spatial planning, are committed to urban planning and detailed regulation plans. At the beginning, we must return to Article 1 of this Law, which clearly indicates the objectives of the law and the subject of the establishment of the law, and they are thus listed – the way of planning, editing and using building land, building buildings, monitoring and other issues of importance in this area. With this we see clearly that the bill treats spatial planning as an integral part and a basis for the work of construction. The idea of spatial planning as a spatial layout of future social development in this proposal is almost not even present. The indication of this idea is present only in Article 3, which is referred to in Article 1, where the principles of sustainable development, fostering even development and even territorial development and so on, but also this idea is lost in Articles 2, 3 and 4 which prescribe the obligations of horizontal and vertical coordination in the planning process of space. It is clear that the function of the spatial plan of this law becomes only regulatory, i.e. Administrative law. The arrangement of space, or planning it, must define the obligations of the state. Planning, and in particular the spatial plan, must be a synthesis of established spatial frameworks, resources, long-term development strategies from all areas, such as, say, infrastructure, economy, industry, trade, tourism, etc. The bill provides for the organisation of space without planning and a long-term strategy for RS development. We cannot plan a unit of local self-government without there being a broader spatial plan or plan of the Republic of Serbia that must be in sync with the same and with the strategies of the Republic of Serbia from all areas. You cannot allow the making of a highway based on previously designed plans of local self-government. This tells you enough that these strategies must be implemented in the draft law. Are you convinced that the provision laid down in Article 218 of this Act, which speaks of units of local self-government being required to make a quality spatial plan within 18 months of the date of entry into force of this law, will be able to be implemented due to the lack of this kind of synchronisation between the plans mentioned? In the end, the link in the existing institutional environment and practice involves planning social development and on this basis all planning documents relating to space, and cannot be, you will have to admit, highlight and implement out of space, and this says that for this bill the primary construction is, and planning is, indeed, a secondary matter. Article 15 of this law on the content of the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia speaks in a way that the prescribed content, laid down in 14 points, none of which covers the adopted development strategy in any area, but mentions the objectives and principles of spatial development in point three. Other lower plans, regional and spatial plans of units of local self-government and spatial plans of the area of specific purpose, members of the law from 17 to 22, contain no specific connection with social development, but only a list of basic elements necessary for the formal basis for the development of the urban plan. The secondaryity of planning continues to be demonstrated through the general urban plan of members 23 and 24, followed by the general regulation plan for members 25 and 26, by the detailed regulation plan in Articles 27 and 28, the building rules in Articles 30 and 31. In short, Mr. Minister, the development strategy adopted by the government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia do not have to be part of the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, and the economic development strategy of a municipality does not have to be a mandatory element of the urban plan based on the bill. This applies also to the urban project from Articles 60 to 63, then to the project of parceling and preparation in Articles 65 to 67, then to the project of correcting the borders of neighbouring parcels in Article 68. I will return to Article 33 concerning the coherence of the planning documents, i.e. documents of spatial and urban planning, whose eight views do not contain any provision concerning spatial plans with other social development plans, but only the general rule that the document of the narrow area must comply with the broad area, paragraph 1 and paragraph 3 – that urban plans must be in line with spatial plans. In the end, about these planning problems, what would happen, and practice proves it during some previous periods of government functioning, and perhaps in this conference, that certain ministers are fighting? For example, you're fighting with another minister from another important area, and you can leave those elements out of spatial planning. The following and the biggest regret, which may be why you should withdraw the law from the procedure, is the fact that in Article 11(2), paragraph 2, and then Article 12, paragraph 1(2), and Articles 17 and 18, which talk about regional spatial planning, i.e. The area of spatial units of the size of European NUTS2 and NUTS3 standards and the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which does not contain the concept of a territorial organisation – type of regional. Then it turns out that even spatial plans can't be brought to that level. It was your obligation to submit amendments to those members by the moment of discussion, and if you enter into an analysis of all this, you will see that this procedure is partly related to the mentioned members of this bill, and unconstitutional. It is the conclusion that in the power to adopt planning documents, Article 35, you are trying to solve this problem in relation to the original text of the draft law, but this did not in any way reduce the importance of those reasons, which I have told you for a moment, but rather resembles throwing dust in the eyes of those who have not prepared enough to discuss the proposal for this law. Through Art. 35th, a finding is being made, or an unconstitutional provision, that the city of Belgrade becomes a province, by category and an explanation of how you put it in the category of explanations relating to this member. One more thing, Mr. Minister, in Article 35, all plans are made by the government on a proposal from the ministry responsible for spatial planning affairs, and a regional spatial plan for the area of the autonomous province brings congregations, as this applies to the city of Belgrade, other cities and units of local self-government. This is where the dilemma is placed – we trust you and Cvetkovic, we do not trust Pajtic, Gilas and the other mayors. There must be the same legal procedure for everything, either the Assembly or the Government, you can't share it at different levels. Spatial planning cannot be centralistic activity, i.e. that only your ministry, or the ministry that deals with spatial planning, decides everything about space, as if space is some property of you and your ministry. Article 75, which deals with the competencies of the republican spatial planning agency, says in point 8) it is running a register of spatial plans for the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What then, I'm asking you, is that the Republic Bureau is doing that has the same kind of authority. These two special organizations under the very draft of the law, if adopted like this, will have a totally competitive relationship. That is why the conclusion follows that the creation of a new institutional environment adapted to the needs of European integration is that you and the authors of this law do not touch you at all. The draft law must not contain any elements for future instability, as contained in the bill of law and the law of your predecessor, given that we also have part of such a debate, and must not in Article 16(1), which states that the decision to build a spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia is made by the government on a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Planning Affairs, that Article 35(1) states that this is to be made by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the government. This speaks of an anti-democrat model of a law in which the decision on a limited public resource is, and you will have to admit that space and land are, in fact, an exclusive matter of the ministry, or government. In a member of the 58th programme of implementation of the Republic of Serbia's spatial plan, which brings the government on a proposal from the ministry, which is another proof of the previous position. Only in Articles 47, 2 and 3 open the possibility that this draft law is not fully centralised, by allowing the planning documents to be designed by legal persons registered to carry out such an activity, so that the authority responsible for business spatial and urban planning can give way to the development of a plan for economic society by public advertising. After an excellent member of 40th on the free admission of all necessary data, a copy of this necessary competent authorities, recordings, comes to Article 41 concerning the availability of planning documents, where, I also submit the amendment, the SNS is trying to correct the illogicality in that position, because the availability of information really needs to have real, rather than this importance. Then, Article 49 speaks of professional control, which is within the authority of the competent ministry, either personally or over a third of its members. (President: Time. I will continue in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24531	Mr. Radojko Obradovic has a word. RADOJKO RADOVIĆ: Fellow Vice-Presidents, Mr Dulic, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, at the beginning of this session, the President of Parliament asked me if the conditions had been created to praise the way this Parliament is being led and the way this Parliament is doing. I think there are a lot of reasons to commend the work and way of leading this parliament. Today I'm going to point out, at the beginning, I think three reasons are enough. I think it's extremely important that, let's say, we discussed together the information law and the culture law. I think it's even more important that we discussed the information law without direct television transmission, with a delayed transmission that was late at night. I think it is extremely important that we are now discussing four points of the agenda that have a total of 479 amendments, and it is well known that only 300 amendments can be discussed under the Rules of Procedure now in force. If each MP submitted only one amendment, all half of the amendments would be discussed, just one member at a time. All that says in favor of the way it's done. I think these praises will be very good for you. Once upon a time in schools, I was taught, I finished first grade a long time ago, so I don't know what it looks like now, that we're an extremely rich country, to have all kinds of ores, all kinds of raw materials. Mrs. Comic and I had a chance to hear about such countries still exist a year ago. The Prime Minister of a country in the region has told us about the same thing, as it is a god-given country for life. Once, at least in school books, Serbia was such a country. Time has shown that it is absolutely far from the truth. I deeply believe that territory, or land, is the greatest resource this country has and that territory, or land, is the greatest development opportunity this country has. Special attention should be paid to this set of laws, which should now regulate the situation in space. As this coalition refers to this resource, as the previous coalition referred to, as all coalitions treated this resource, it says that in each government, this ministry has a different name. This ministry was once the Ministry of Urbanism, Construction and Municipal and Residential Affairs, and then it was the Ministry of Urbanism and Construction in the Government from 2001 to 2003, and then it was the Ministry of Capital Investment, and it was the Ministry of Infrastructure, so now we came to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning. The name of the ministry doesn't have to mean everything, but the way you conjecture the government and define what the ministry will call a lot of things. The first question that arises when we're discussing this set of laws, I'm saying four such important things is difficult to discuss in those 20 minutes, the first question is, why is this law even changing? The law was changed in 2003, i.e. the law which is now in force and the reason is, should be looked at the stenographic notes, but it was completely identical and very similar to this. There's a colleague, Djalovic, so he can confirm. "The situation in the area will be resolved, there will be no illegal facilities, we will introduce order into this extremely important area." When we look at the reasoning of this law, otherwise, the legislator of this law is now president of the Engineering Chamber, it says that it has been assessed, because certain solutions to its application, especially solutions, are contained in transitional and final provisions, as well as legalisation of objects. The law was passed in 2003 for exactly the reason to solve legalisation problems. Six years later, we have a completely similar or identical problem. We haven't heard anything about who's responsible for why much has been done over the past six years to resolve the situation in space and who needs to take responsibility for the situation in space. Are these the authors who create the plans, are they the contractors, the designers, are they the state authorities? In order to solve a problem, we need to answer that, not for any reason to blame someone for any mistake, but to remove all these mistakes during the period ahead of us. In 2003, it came to the idea of making one law. Here in the Serbian Parliament, we are witnessing that every day we are discussing a large number of laws from different areas. I don't think the areas can and should be compared, but I think it's the only area of spatial planning, or citizens, that's regulated by one law. I don't think that's good. Of course, sometimes it's good to have it all in one law, but then it risks the law being undefined, that some things be unclear, because the law will be broken. So we have now come into a situation that individual members are on two sides each, with a large number of paragraphs and chapters, which will surely make their application difficult. We are absolutely about the fact that the law, that is, the matter of this law, was to be defined by a special law on the spatial plan, the law on implementation and implementation of the spatial plan, the law on planning, the law on construction, the law on the engineering chamber of building land. We believe the law on legalization had to be a special law. A team of wonders that some of the chapters of the law are too far-fetched, let's say, the part relating to the republican spatial planning agency. Of course it's least important maybe in this law, but we're here to testify that a large number of laws define the agency. Whenever we put in an amendment that we want to arrange closer to that area, the amendments refuse to explain that the Law on Public Agencys regulates matter and that there is no need to double something. For example, this chapter relating to the work of the Republic spatial planning agency is absolutely insane, because many members who have already been defined in another law have been prescribed. In particular, consideration should be given to the possibility of defining in a special way private investments from investments in which the state is a majority owner. Someone will say – there is a law on public procurement. No, it's not defined by the Public Procurement Act. Why is this problem so serious? Can we remember a public investment, where the state was a majority owner, without that investment breaking its budget? Can we look at how many stories we have on the bridge crossing Ada Giganlia? Is it clear to the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia all about this investment -- surely not. When you look at how much resources are provided, it's far more than a standard bridge prescribes. Public investment must be under special attention to the public. In particular, what this law provides for cannot happen, and that is to predict the legalisation of investments built by funds from the budget. Does that mean the state is building without building permits? If that means, what objects exactly are we thinking about? Were these facilities in the period from 2003, when it was responsible for it - a crime? I don't think anyone should be amnesty, whether in this or the previous government when we were together in the coalition, or in someone else, when you were the opposition, that should be the least important. Let's just look at a few big chapters. The DSS considers the spatial plan to be a basic development document. The government is making a large number of strategies, and the number of these strategies is being measured by dozens. I think there are over 50 of them now and the question is just -- are these strategies being respected, are there instruments for the application of these strategies being envisaged, and do these strategies commit us in any way? The only thing that makes sense is that if they commit us to doing something in the future. The only document I see at the level of the government that needs to unite the absolute state of space and that should define absolutely every point of state in space is the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia. I agree with a colleague who spoke before me that the planned spatial plan in the content definition lacks a long-term development strategy of the Republic of Serbia. The spatial plan is the only document, not some other one, that can enable regional differences to be reduced and that can enable us to meet all of the goals that you, Mr. Minister, have been talking about. I don't think it's enough to have a plan to implement a spatial plan, that it has to be legal matter, a law that will be binding on all entities, since it's proposed by the Government should be passed by the Assembly. Witnesses of non-application of the spatial plan are all of us together. Wherever you turn in space, you'll see what kind of chaos there is. A network of spatial plans is envisaged for planning. It's a big thing that you, and it's for every commendation, suggested that the bases should be free. The serious problem in the realisation of spatial plans and generally urban plans was extremely expensive bases that local self-government could not finance. Here we are simply missing, we have proposed an amendment, to precisely define the deadline, because a member does not foresee a deadline within which a competent institution must grant an appropriate basis. Who's responsible for not having plans? Are these local self-governments, are the cities, or are the municipalities, cities or the Republic of Serbia, and how will we manage to give local authorities an impression of the importance of planning at all? The obligation to form an information system is good, but I don't know if an analysis has been made of how it will be conducted in local self-government, because it is a serious problem in most cities and municipalities that there is not enough expertise. Funds plus professional staff, especially in a situation where budget filling is not going well, when the transfer funds are reduced by more than 50%, when the question is whether they will be realised and whether, within the time limit provided for by law, they will be able to form the information system. One special chapter defines the concept of construction. Our view that there should be different objects that finance the budget, whether local or republican, and should distinguish private investments. On the other hand, the law does not foresee and procedures do not foresee the difference between real capital facilities that must be given special attention and do not provide for certain objects that are not. These are two completely different things, both by approach and by all possible consequences. I absolutely support your idea of protecting citizens from investors and that's a good thing, but it's a big question - should this law replace any other laws? Because, for example, there is a Law on Bond Relations, there is a Criminal Law, in which there is a criminal act called fraud, and can the state take over the role, or should the competent ministry take over that role, or must each of us have a responsibility for a particular investment for which the funds are invested? Is it possible to make that kind of substitution? Even in America, some investor cheats on people who trusted him for over 50 billion dollars. The issue of the permit provides for a different procedure than it has ever been before. It's possible that there's information about the location, so it's going on a location permit, then on a building permit, so it's going on a work report. Have any estimates been made within what time limit can a building permit be obtained? The big question is, what are we going to consider under the deadline for obtaining a building permit? This can be considered the eight days when you submit the orderly documentation, but under obtaining a building permit, the application procedure for a location permit is also considered. Anyone who deals with these jobs, of course when we're talking about housing not only, you've baptized them up to 100 squares here, but we're talking about all those important facilities that hire the most financial resources, knows that the location permit can be obtained relatively quickly. I think it's a good thing that when you define the location permit, you solved the property relations, because then you disable further work. It is quite clear that for an even more complex facility, which has various types of installations, a residential building of several floors, the design process itself lasts from 8 to 12 months. The conditions for the start of the design are the location permit that should define all the projecting input parameters. I'm afraid that announcement that a building permit will be obtained does not stand very quickly, for the simple reason it is not defined - what is a building permit? I think it's the moment since you applied for the first time, from the moment you applied for the location and asked for a location permit, you've already got a few things to solve. Therefore, you are already largely in the process of obtaining a building permit. Then that's the total time until we report the papers. If you wanted to protect citizens from investors, then you had to regulate supervision differently, because the investor chooses the supervisory authority. If he pays for it, then it is very clear that the supervisory authority will be on the side of the investor rather than on the side of those who will eventually buy an apartment or do something else. I can give you an example from my practice, of course it applies somewhere else in the world where there are some other rules. I was lucky to have surveillance on one of my projects as the biggest company in the world of OVR. They didn't even look at the budget I worked at the company, where I was working at the time, but they did a complete special project, and the supervision, or the report, consists of one single sentence -- the budgets that we did agree on and correspond to the project that was being observed. There in that world, monitoring and reviewing this project costs exactly as much as the entire project. I think he even paid the OVR more than the Energy Project charged for the project. So taking this as a practice, I'm afraid it won't lead us to a solution. As far as the engineering chamber is concerned, it's regulated by a special law in most countries and I think it has to be specifically defined. It's not a bad solution for the engineering chamber to deal with these things, but membership in the engineering chamber can't be binding. Why? Because the Constitution says there is freedom of association. The ministry can transfer its powers to the chamber, it is not disputed and it is defined by the laws, but no one can force anyone to be a member under the law, because then a provision of the Constitution that says that association is free. Why would I join you in the chamber? The big problem, especially in cities, is maintenance and security of the facility. Most of those incidents that happen, when the state has to arbitration, then the state has to hire certain funds and reschedul those facilities. Few of these facilities are secured. The law does not define the concept of insurance and deals very superficially with the issue of building maintenance. I say that the problem may not be expressed equally in all parts of Serbia, but in large cities, above all in Belgrade -- the problem of building maintenance is extremely important and must be defined in particular. As far as legalization is concerned, we believe that legalisation must be defined by a special law. Why? Because legalization is in fact the resolution of a space already violated by the violation of the law and cannot be the matter of the law, which regulates the planning and editing of space, to be the defining of the violation of that law. We think it has to be a matter of lex specialist. The question is how many buildings were built between 2003 and 2009. In particular, a member of the law that specifically defines the legalisation of buildings built from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the budget of local self-government. It is only proof that the state in Serbia is also building without permission. Then it sheds a special light on everything we're talking about. To finish, it's very ambitious to regulate one of these large matter by law. It will only allow individual provisions to be interpreted differently, which will make the Ministry constantly have to arbitration. Rogobate provisions are not clear enough. We must be aware that when defining urban plans, when defining the building, it is not possible to achieve this type of uniformity that will limit the functioning of architects and it is very difficult to define plans. All of this together allows us to have vague provisions that then create confusion. We must be aware that the basic instrument for implementing urbanism and urban plans is primarily money and that it is extremely difficult for poor countries to deal with urbanism seriously. Otherwise, Paris became a city of light by making Napoleon III decide to crash half the city, give his architect Osman his free hands, define the great boulevards to prevent the rebellions that were then in Paris at that time, and thus Paris became a city of light. Napoleon III had enough resources to fund it. Our laws if they don't have instruments to implement, there won't be enough good laws. We have proposed a number of amendments that clarify certain provisions and allow the law to be applicable. In an individual debate, we will discuss these amendments and then we will be able to declare the whole of the law. The word is Mr. Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24533	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, today we are talking about four important laws, these are the law on regulating space and construction, the law on state diameter and cataster, the law on social housing and the law on the environmental fund. When we talk about the law on regulation of space and construction, this law should determine the terms and conditions and arrangements and planning of space, arrangements and use of city building land, construction of buildings, constitutional oversight and inspection of these affairs, and should address the issue of legalisation in Serbia. Technically, the law has 16 chapters. I just want to look back on what's most important. Chapter 2 – Spatial and urban planning. Article 11 of this law defines plans as a spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, a regional spatial plan, a unit plan of local self-government and a spatial plan of a specific purpose. As far as urban plans are concerned, a general urban plan, a general regulation plan and a detailed regulation plan have been defined. The law also defined the procedure for the adoption of these planning documents, as well as a description of what should be contained in each of these planning documents and hierarchy of these planning documents. What is important, Article 33 of this Law defines that documents of spatial and urban planning must be harmonised, so that the spatial and urban plan of the narrow area must be in agreement with the spatial and urban plan of the wider area. It is also defined that the ministry responsible for spatial planning monitors this hierarchy, which means that prior to adoption, positive opinions must be given for spatial plans of the region, for spatial plans of local self-government, as well as detailed regulation plans, but for areas of special purpose. And what's important, if you don't give a positive opinion, whoever did the plan, the bearer of that plan, has 90 days to make a new concept. The Ministry of Law may transfer certain responsibilities to an autonomous province, i.e. an autonomous province body dealing with this problem. It seems important to me that what has been defined by this law is to establish a central register of planning documents at the state level. This means that all planning documents must be in electronic form and will be available via the Internet. The duty of local self-government is to do local information systems. This means that local planning documents must also be available in electronic form and can also be accessed via the Internet. It's also an important deadline. A year has been given under this law to form a national and local information system. Article 39 of this law defined that the ministry could co-finance or finance construction, produce planning documents with local self-government units. It is quite clear that some local self-governments do not have enough expert staff, and finance is not a stronger party, especially in these times of crisis, but if we want local self-government to bring in planning documents in the next period, which is the basis for us to solve many things in the area of planning and construction, then the ministry has recognised this problem and given the possibility that the ministry co-finances or finances the development of these projects, so that a defined 18-month deadline for the development of spatial plans and two years for the development of general plans, with the provision of funds, can be said to be achieved in the next period. What is important, and what comes from these planning documents, Article 53 defines location information. It is a document issued on the basis of a planned document and provides information on the possibility of construction and restrictions for the given cadastrian plot. The location permit, which is an administrative act, includes the conditions and data for the production of technical documentation, or later for obtaining a building permit. This law also increased the responsibility of the expert commission, i.e. the Committee on Plans and defined that all members must have appropriate licences for the Committee on Plans. Chapter 4 of this legislation defines city building land and Article 83 of this Law defines that construction land can be in all forms of property, which means private property, that city building land can be in traffic and that construction land in public property can also be in traffic under special conditions that define the law. Building land is divided into two large groups, a city building land and building land outside the city's building land borders. The city building land is located in the area of the settlement and as such is determined by a plan document, and the building land outside the city's building land is also determined by a plan document and is outside the area of the settlement. The law defines another important thing, and that's how you can change agriculturally into city building land, that's something that's important, something that's going to have both criticism and good things. I think that's a good thing. The law also stipulates that the simple fee that must then be paid for that change will be adequate, which means that we cannot get city building land by changing agricultural land at some low cost. The law also regulates what the concepts mean – built and not built building land, arranged and unedited, compensation for building land, financing building land, alienation, renting and building land in public property. Chapters 5, 6, 7 and 8 define building facilities, building permits, construction and use of permits. These chapters need and should have the effect of increasing the number of objects and carrying out works for which no building permit is issued, changing the eligibility of the building permit due to changes in the investor, which means changing the location permit, and easier removing the objects and parts of the objects which are being destroyed on the basis of the removal permit. It is also defined in these chapters that construction works are built on the basis of building permits and technical documentation and are defined for which buildings are issued by the Republic, i.e. the AP, or local self-government. The law also defined exactly what should contain a request for a building permit, that the building permit is valid for two years, and that if the construction of a building is started and the investor is changed, not everything is entered from the beginning of the process, but only the location permit is changed and a new building permit solution is automatically obtained. What has also been defined by law has expanded the list of buildings for which a building permit is issued, as well as the issue of a temporary construction permit, which determines that the facility can exist for a maximum of three years. It is important, I think, that what is defined by this law, that in all stages of building must be taken into account in sustainable construction and energy efficiency, materials that are not harmful to the environment must be used and care must be taken into account both persons with disabilities, so-called old people and children. Chapter 12 defines supervision and gives particular authority to the construction inspection. A construction inspection, under Article 179, may enter the construction site and the building facility and seek correction to identify the persons who are on the site at that time. If the works are found to be performed without permission, the site may be closed on site, marked by a special sign of "closed construction" and the sealing of machinery, so it is simply impossible to build more on the site. Chapter 13 is dedicated to one serious topic in Serbia, which is legalisation. After the issue of a building permit and of use for buildings built and reconstructed without a building permit, what defines the law is that the legalisation fee can be carried out for the buildings that were built before 13. 5. In 2003 and for the buildings for which there was a building permit, but during the construction itself there was an expansion, both in width and in height, or in height, or in height. Here is one problem that has been written about, which has been discussed today – what about those buildings that were built during this period, and they do not have a city permit. The question is serious because you have moments, because there were no planning documents, that man might have been forced to do so. On the other hand, you have that local self-government or city building inspection has not responded, or closed such construction sites, so the problem is complex. I think that in a constructive debate in the next few days, until the debate of the law is over in detail, we can come up with a valid solution so that we don't damage either the investor or the citizens, but that local self-government in the future takes over its share of responsibility so that such consequences don't happen again. I think it is important to mention Article 190, which says that the legalisation application has been filed no later than six months since the adoption of this law, and it is important that those who have previously applied for legalisation are deemed to have met and there will be no problems. It is also prescribed that compensation for regulating city building land for family facilities up to 100m square meters and for public-owned facilities, whether they are local self-government, state or other institutions, will be prescribed by the ministry within 30 days of the date of adoption of this law. I think it creates completely, for those objects that are really family households, conditions for full legalization. The application of this law seems to me, in the future in Serbia, that we should have planned documents in two years, both at the level of local self-government and at the level of the Republic. It seems easier to build in Serbia than it is now. This means that Serbia will be competitive, which I am absolutely sure means attracting certain investments and opening new jobs, and hopefully, with considerable difficulty, as well as hiring the ministry and frequent and permanent education of people at the place, that we will finally resolve the issue and legalisation in Serbia. As far as the second law is concerned, it's a social housing law. What's important, first, is what social housing means. Social housing within the meaning of this law is an apartment of an appropriate standard, which is provided with the support of the state, households which, for social, economic and other reasons, cannot provide an apartment under market conditions. To truly understand the importance of passing one of these laws, it is necessary to look at a little bit and remember what conditions we live in Serbia today. A large number of people in Serbia today because of the economic situation and everything that has been happening to us in the past is socially endangered. This situation is getting worse by having a large number of refugees and displaced persons, resulting from certain developments in the near past. What is also important is the lack of housing in the public sector due to the privatisation of social housing, which was arranged earlier, as well as the suspension of the allocation of funds to finance apartments of solid housing. What is also very important today in Serbia is that we have a bad offer of apartments to rent, or rent, a low degree of security for those who rent an apartment, no contracts exist there, all of which are left to offer and demand at a given time and subsidies that occur in residential construction and exist in Serbia seem to me not to be directed at people who are socially endangered, but rather to another category of people. To address problems in this area, Article 3 of this law provides for the establishment of a national social housing strategy, i.e. a plan document and an important document. It is brought by the government of the Republic of Serbia for a period of ten years, and also from this national strategy must come up with long-term and medium-term programmes representing instruments for the achievement of the national strategy. Also, Article 4 of the social housing law provides for local self-governments, one or more, to adopt local housing strategies, whose task is to solve the area in a planned manner, or to plan the area, both one and more local self-governments. What is important is that local self-government and government adopt strategies, and implementation of these strategies will be done by the Republic Social Housing Agency and non-profit housing agencies, which can be formed at the level of one local self-government or more local self-government. It is also important that these agencies at the level are required to obtain licences from the relevant ministry and if they do not respect the letter of the law, that licence may be withdrawn. The law goes a little further and defines the criteria for selecting those who will use apartments from this programme, as well as sources of funding, as arranged by Articles 8, 10 and 12. What I'm saying is that this law came from certain activities that have been going on since 2003, so here we go. The start of thinking about this law was the SYRP programme, or UN HABITATA, which was conducted in seven Serbian cities. There is one among these cities and the king, from where I came as a messenger of the people. Today in the Kingdom thanks to UN HABITAT, HELP and SDC, there are 96 social dwellings that are issued to people according to this methodology for some assets that are far lower than what the market looks like. It seems to me that conditions are created for these people for a normal life, for both refugees and displaced persons, and for the local social population. With the hope that in other places in Serbia there will be such apartments that will solve the existential problems of our poor families, G17 Plus will support this law and I hope that this law will be implemented very quickly. The third law is the law on the Environmental Protection Fund and the Environment Fund was established to provide funds and to encourage environmental protection in Serbia. By adopting a package of environmental laws, I primarily think of the law on sustainable use of the fish fund, packaging law and packaging waste and waste management laws, new powers and powers of the Fund have been defined, and thus new sources of funding. On the one hand, compared to the 2005 law, when the Fund started and worked, you have new responsibilities, and you have new funding, especially from the Law on packaging waste and the Act on Sustainable Use of the Fish Fund, and in order to be respected, it was necessary to pass a law on the Environmental Protection Fund. What is the focus of environmental policy in developed countries and EU countries, where we aim, is a high level of environmental protection and its foundation on classical economic principles, which means wage polluter or pay user. Environmental protection must be directed at those polluting the environment, sources of pollution, but parallel to this must be taken into account and balance the interests of development and environmental protection. All documents of the plan to be adopted at the local, regional and national level must have an integrated approach to this planning. What is important, this law defines jobs, position and income and how the funds of the Environment Fund and Article 2 are used is defined as the founder of the Government of the Republic of Serbia's Fund, and the supervision of the work of the Fund is carried out by the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Articles 6, 7, 8 and 9 have been defined by the Fund and it seems to me that it is an important member of the 9th law, which says that the fund brings together a medium-term and annual work plan. The medium-term work plan is carried out for a period of three years, and is given by the government's consent, which is annual for a year and is agreed by the environment ministry. What the law also provides is that the fund is required to submit a report on the implementation of the plan for the previous year by 31 March of the current year and the report is under review by the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Articles 10, 11, 12 and 15 define the general acts of the Fund, as well as the competence of the Fund. The news is that the fund will no longer have the board of directors, there will be no more, and the board of directors is down from seven to five members. The law defines the fund's income, as well as the areas where the fund can place its funds. Article 18 defines that fund beneficiaries can be legal and natural persons. The funds are allocated through loans, grants, incentives and grants and are allocated on the basis of a public competition. It is important here that funds will be allocated to both local self-government and private enterprises, i.e. companies that need to protect the environment. It seems to me that local self-government in the coming period, in order to use these funds, will have to have good projects and good programs. I'm not sure how many of our local self-governments in Serbia can respond to this job right now, but we're in a market economy, there's a public competition, so those who have better projects and programmes will get to those funds sooner. What is defined by Article 19 is that funds must be used on purpose. If it is not used on purpose, if it is determined, then those funds must be returned to the fund's budget. The proposed fund law improves the system of environmental management and management, because we will bring new planning documents and because we will have safe and long-term sources of funding for projects in the field of environmental protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24534	The word is made by MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24535	Ladies and gentlemen, the people's MPs, citizens of Serbia, are now on the agenda of four laws -- the law on the regulation of space and construction, the law on state-owned Prime Minister and Cataster, the social housing law and the law on the Environmental Protection Fund. I believe that these four laws are extremely important and that there should not have been a merger at one point in the agenda, but that each law should have been discussed in full time. As for the law on regulation of space and construction, to which I will dedicate most of the time, I will first set a few sentences on legalisation, because it is very interesting to all citizens of Serbia. I must point out that in 2003, a law that pompously announced fast and cheap legalization, and none of it was. I'll just tell you that there are 18,000 legal requirements in the Voždovec area, of which only three thousand were processed, slightly less than 17%, and I believe that this is the average at the level of Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia. This number of legalisation requirements, even they failed to legalise the facilities because of an extremely high price. I'll read you the prices that apply to Belgrade. The price of legalisation per square metre in the fifth zone is 4.535 dinars, in the fourth zone of 6,105 dinars, in the third zone of 8,402 dinars, in the second zone of 9,910 dinars, in the first zone of 11,434 dinars and in the extra zone of 24.177 dinars. If you take an average of 100 euros, an apartment or a house of about 50, 60, 70 square meters, it means that the average legalisation requires 6-7 thousand euros, which at this time is extremely unfavourable for Serbian citizens and therefore a large number of legalisation facilities did not bring it in. Areas that, meanwhile, are equipped with new infrastructure, traffic, plumbing, sewerage, have won attractiveness. These parts have moved from lower to higher area to charge as much legalisation per square metre as possible. Also, I think the price is too high, especially for the owners of the facilities that built the infrastructure themselves, the sewage network, the water network, etc. I realize that the money obtained from legalization will focus on building infrastructure, but it is completely unthinkable that objects that also possess to be legalized at this price. As for spatial plans, I will talk about spatial plans in Serbia, which are of great importance to our country's development. I will first mention and discuss the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, which as a strategic development document sets out the long-term foundations of the organisation, the use and arrangement of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the direction of urbanisation and the basic criteria of settlement arrangements, the principles and criteria for the use of natural resources and the protection of the environment, the conditions for the protection and use of areas of particular importance, the corridors of basic infrastructure systems. As far as the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, it is subject to the distribution of agricultural land use, deforestation, habitats and game breeding centres, water springs and water infrastructures, metals and nemetas, energy sources, energy infrastructure, population space, centre networks, industrial space, intensive development belts, possible areas of impact of macro-regional centres, road network, rail network, telecommunications, tourism, environmental protection, nature protection and ecosystems, protection of fixed cultural goods. The word plan itself means a picture of the desired or imagined projected state. It's a statistical character. Planning is a process that lasts and is dynamic. Only spatial planning is a decision-making process for an appropriate action in the future through a series of elections, is also a process by which a particular course of action is chosen to achieve the objectives set. As far as spatial plans are concerned, the first spatial plans created were regional. The first spatial plan is in Rohr, then Tennessee Valley in the U.S., which began in the early '40s. Thereafter, spatial plans arise for the expansion of cities or urban regions of one or more cities, large London, a system of cities on the Atlantic coast, a later attempt to decentralisation the functions of Paris and so on. In other words, spatial planning in modern understanding has evolved from regional spatial planning. As far as our country is concerned, the first spatial plan that arose is the spatial plan of the Danube coast from Belgrade to the Bulgarian border, built between 1961 and 1963 in connection with the construction of HE Đerdap. The idea of this plan was to analyse and record the relations and situations that existed before HE and then find optimal solutions to the building of space, given the positive and negative effects of building HE. As for the hydropower plant itself, which was a total length of 968 meters, conclusions were made on the effects of the construction of the hydropower plant itself. These are the natural conditions of intervention in the immersion of existing valleys and the presence of a more significant water surface for the plant world, the impact on the rise of groundwater levels in the wider area and the measures for their neutralisation - a special impact on the entire sea basin, which must be regulated according to new conditions. As for traffic, the full satisfaction of the future river traffic in the Danube region, through the dam, has enabled the integration of Yugoslavia with Romania both rail and road traffic; in particular, the potential for traffic development and traffic networks in eastern Serbia according to general conditions of development. As for cities and populations, some existing settlements have been submerged, and new settlements have been built as their replacement and the reception of a new population. The general increase in wealth, driven by new facilities and the employment of new people and richer works, imposes more quantitative and even more quality development of settlements of all categories. Also, as regards the importance of spatial plans, in order for the spatial plan to be good, it is necessary to form the information base of the spatial plan, that is, first of all, to collect available study-analytical, plan-development and other documentation, then to form documentation on the physical-geographical and biogeographical characteristics of the area, to form documentation on the population and the workforce, data on the structure of the economy and socio-economic development. Then, as far as building land is concerned, the data of the total land area is intended for housing, then the area of land intended for industry, which is intended for trade, catering and tourism, for trade, for traffic, for construction and similar activities, then for education, health, social housing, land intended for public and administrative purposes, for communal needs, for recreation and entertainment, parks and park woods, playground specially designed for land. As for the population, migration and employment, the number and rate of birth and mortality, the population according to age and gender, the mechanical growth of the population and migration, the employment of the population are extremely important. As far as housing is concerned, an important specification of annual housing, housing costs per meter of a square apartment, land construction, is an extremely important conversion of agricultural and forest land into urban construction, population density in certain areas – city center, periphery, municipalities etc., built area of fixed funds, technical infrastructure, where water system and water consumption are involved, sewerage system, energy system, traffic system. Social and living standards of the population within which the number of preschool children is, the number of children includes compulsory schooling, the number of schools, the number of students, the number of teachers, the number of doctors per thousand residents, the number of beds in hospitals, the number of cinemas, theatres, the literacy of the population, the number of libraries. These are all data that are of great importance to the work of spatial plans and the quality of the human environment, i.e. land pollution, noise, air pollution and water quality. As for water, irrational water management and the untapped use of some water resources is obviously represented in the Republic of Serbia. Also, we have a phenomenon that there are already a large number of flows without any living world. The currents and waters should be kept in the sense of national treasure under the strictest regimes, then such regimes should be applied to other flows and they should be kept in constant control and protection of them. The second group of problems in the domain of nature is related to how to use the natural environment. Degradation of pedological blankets and vegetarian blankets is mostly just manifestations of a significantly more complex process of total natural environment disorder. As far as traffic is concerned, what is expressed in Serbia is underbuilding, under-building of the network, non-differentiation of the network and the emergence of very different conditions and speeds and on the same route, the lack of construction of the local network, and to note that the network is the basis for the development of the economy, agriculture, tourism and other areas. Also, the railway network needs modernisation, and there is a marked lag behind river traffic and its real small role in overall traffic, which stands in the clear opposite of the position and possibilities of the Republic of Serbia. As for spatial plans of a specific purpose area, they can have a fairly wide spatial coverage, over 2,000 square meters and can be of exceptional importance to Serbia. I mentioned a little while ago the Gerdap Hydro power plant. Now I'm going to mention the mining-energy and industrial systems, where they work, also, these spatial plans. The very important efficiency of functioning of a complex mining-energy and industrial system is the rational exploitation of non-renewable natural resources, primarily lignite, then improving living conditions and reducing differences in conditions, neutralising the adverse effects of lignite exploitation on the current degree of technical and technological development and preserving continues to improve the quality of environment and quality of life. Also, it is essential to address problems in the everyday life of people living in a direct and wider environment of coal mines. Some of them will be destroyed within five years and others in 20 years. It's hard to accept that someone can't build a sanitary node because his house will come into consideration for the collapse in 20 years. Unfortunately, these examples are daily here in Belgrade, where settlements are to be destroyed during a certain period. I'm going to mention the Marinkova Bar settlement, where it's scheduled to be destroyed in the '60s. The full 50 years have passed, and the citizens of the Marinkova Bar can't adapt their facilities, they can't expand them, they can't raise a floor, because that space is designed for demolition and so full of 50 years. The question is, how long will it continue to happen? Simply, when citizens apply for any adaptation of space, for expansion, they always refuse to explain that this settlement is intended for destruction, and when it will be – no one knows. As far as national parks are concerned, spatial plans are also extremely important to protect our national parks, and there are plans to improve and use forests in the national park, plans or studies of land, its properties, use, protection and the like, plans or studies of arrangements, use and water protection, studies on the development and construction of infrastructure systems in national parks and studies on other natural and anthropogenic values, the way and criteria of their use, promotion and preservation. I would also point out, which is a common phenomenon in Serbia, a problem of centralisation, i.e. large population migration towards large cities. It is necessary to create new jobs in settlements outside the capital, i.e. relative deterioration of the centrality of the city centre and to develop production capacities in the surrounding settlements, as this all causes the death of the village, where the very difficult conditions of life are. For this reason, great attention should be paid to the construction of water lines and water supply in general in all extinct villages in Serbia. The problem of wastewater management in villages is becoming more acute and problematic than in urban settlements. Then, the protection of nature and natural rarity, as well as cultural and historical monuments, is extremely important, building facilities for sport and recreation, rational building of cultural, health, PTT, banks and other forms of service in series, to keep as many residents as possible. I have just devoted my exposure to the meaning and importance of spatial plans, they are extremely important to the development of the Republic of Serbia. What is happening now is that in this law, I have already mentioned, the word “planning” has been deleted. Also these days, at the Faculty of Geographical Sciences, the calling of a graduated spatial planner is being reintroduced, and it is a geographically spatial planner. I believe that this is destroying spatial planning, and spatial planning is increasingly developing in Western European countries and is increasingly needed, and here in Serbia we are going in the opposite direction and what was good from spatial planning is gradually being destroyed. I have two questions for the minister at the end. I asked the first question on the Committee and I didn't get an answer - why did the word "planning" get deleted in this law? I believe that the law should read: “The Law on Planning and Construction. ” I'm asking the same question again, Minister, and I want to finally get an answer. The second question for the minister is - is it true that a contract has been concluded with the French firm or is it necessary to conclude a satellite recording agreement between the Republic of Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija? I wonder if it's true that prices are five to six times more than real, and in what extent this satellite recording is done, because it's known that, according to our law, satellite recording is done in proportion to one thousand to one thousand and as I have information, this contract provides for a 1:25,000 scale, which comes out of the framework of our law and which is a NATO standard. I would ask the minister to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24536	The word has been made by MP Velimir Ilic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group. VELIMIR ILIĆ: Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are gathered to discuss very important laws. I expect a good debate, but these real debates in this House are weak and coming. You can see for yourself that extremely important laws, such as the information law, such as the education law, are simply adopted at some weekend sessions, at some evening meetings, without public presence, without television transmissions. Simply, this parliament does not have the power to survive as an institution that will create and decide what is most important in Serbia. We, on several occasions, have allowed individuals to put themselves above parliament and literally do whatever they want. How is it possible for an individual to come and say – I will shut down the transmission, when it comes to it and force Serbian citizens to watch the French cycling race for a hundred hours and simply cannot see the laws that are extremely important to this country? Is it a shame that the ruling coalition minister is also talking about some important issues in this House and that the ruling coalition recently hears him from five-six MPs from the ruling majority? It's inadmissible anymore. We have simply allowed some people, as I keep saying, to carry out a coup and to fully set up a new system of government in Serbia, a presidential system that we do not have under the Constitution. This is where the president's office is being run by the state. It's all decided. The ruling coalition is doing literally what it wants. This is also reflected in the draft of these laws that are still on the agenda today. I welcome the minister and his efforts to do something, but it's impossible to do because we've been trying for years. I remember when Schumarac ran a major legalisation action in 2003, laws will be passed, legalization goes quickly, without any problems, without any impasses, cheapest, with no chance of stopping, however, it all went to waste. I remember perfectly well, four years ago I went out with this social housing bill. I brought it to the government. Dinkic rejected him as the last rag and said he had his own construction system, told the government that he had his own credit lines that Serbian citizens would secure their apartments and that the social housing law sucks, some European story that has nothing. Four times in this version, the law went to the government of the Republic of Serbia and all four times Dinkic, as finance minister and then as economy minister, refused to accept the law, to give his written consent to pass and enter the assembly procedure. That's why it failed. You've finally managed to please him. It was similar with Montenegrin plates. I remember, four times, I filed the same request, as the minister of traffic, to resolve the issue. Dinkic was vetoing, vetoing, vetoing, and eventually lying on ore recently when everything collapsed, when we poured 160m euros into the registration of only Montenegrin vehicles, and it was a fictitious registration, and the vehicles were run in Serbia. Individuals literally do whatever they want here. That's why it rarely works. I remember perfectly well, I was a folk MP back in the 90s and some years, when we passed the Law on the Spatial Planning of Serbia. It was said, Mirko Marijanovic was prime minister, that he would be strictly respected. We've made some development strategies, everything's going well, and it's completely destroyed. Now someone from another center is completely leading and conducting certain projects. Is there another country in the world where, for example, a council on infrastructure will be set up to sit in the head of state, as chairman of the council, and that will completely reject the regular assembly decisions that have passed the assembly procedure. Let's just remember the concession. The concession was done as a top project to build a highway through Serbia, which is very needed by Serbia. All procedures have passed, parliament passed, adopted unanimously by the government, and in one and two terms of the government, so that the council, whose Vice President Mladjan Dinkic, rejected it coldly, and the president of the state of Tadic, and said there is nothing. It goes ad act and already signed contract completely trampled and dumped, and today we have a problem with not building that highway, at the moment when we're chasing every dinar for investment, when it's important and very important. Of course, the forest man in this first law on legalization of objects, about all of this, snuck into the engineering chamber, it's completely privatized, it's done literally whatever it is you want, and I remember that we didn't make it through that circle of people, that the big fund they have, that they have whatever they want, they travel, they have huge powers, huge receipts, etc. and do not work at all in the interest of establishing that engineering chamber, which it is intended for. Now I'd like to talk a little bit about the social housing law. I remember perfectly when the EU insisted that we adopt it, when it offered us the Habitat program. We have begun to implement the Habitat program, counting that the law will formally pass without any problems. Through the Habitat program we made 970 apartments in Serbia, after the donation of the Italian government and from various funds that came Donorically, and made and emigrated 970 families to Kragujevac, Čačka, Pancheva, Nis and not to list more cities, I mean in Stari Pazova and finished completely. If we had adopted a social housing law then, when there was so much interest that all socially endangered cases of residential security, when it was agreed that all mothers who remained single, whose husbands died in past wars, children without parents, children of fallen fighters, children of disabled people working and disabled war, must be provided by this law, and the disabled who remain now and who need special care, simply, Dinkic stopped the law. We didn't have it and the Habitat program was interrupted after the first action that was very good and successfully done. I remember we wanted cheap construction. We have tried whether it is possible, in co-operation with local authorities, to conduct cheap construction in Serbia. We did it. About 400 houses were built in Jasa Tomic, with a square of 260 euros and were moved, the key in hands for 260 euros. That's the model we started to apply in Vojvodina. Pajtic went and he stepped on that model and told us – he doesn't need anything from the government, because we have our capital fund and we will do it our way. We are in Međa and Yasa Tomic, in all the slides in Serbia, we have done with prices, somewhere thousands of apartments across Serbia, which between 260 and 300 euros are the key in hand, in co-operation with local authorities, and that has succeeded. So Serbia has the opportunity to build cheaply. I remember when the Banat construction company from Zrenjanin performed works for 260 euros square key in hand, the ground floor houses people worked and built and we ended it all. That model just fell apart. Why? Because Dinkic had his own credit model that never even lived – cheap loans. You only remember so many television stories, the commercials, that everyone will be able to buy long-term loans, everyone will be able to get credit, get a variety of benefits, and that's all gone. Today, there is no middle-class family that can credit-finance housing based on their incomes that family members have. Therefore, keep this law if you can somehow do something to revive in Serbia this cheap construction. Here, the main stumbling block, as well as legalization, was local authorities. The city of Belgrade has completely been torn out of the entire construction system. Imagine 300 euros per square, 260 euros per square, and in Belgrade building 4,000, 4,500 and 5,000 euros per square? Imagine what a thief it is, and what a theft there is, and what commissions are there and what's going on here? Therefore, I note that Prokop was not only done because the city of Belgrade did not want to sign consent, the late Nenad Bogdanovic did not want to receive the Trigranit team to discuss when she concluded the contract, let alone give consent. And once the late Branko Pesic signed that Belgrade is in charge of the location and that it has certain powers and that it should get a certain number of squares, which Belgrade simply rejected, any kind of talks, and the project failed. Thus, in the city of Belgrade, the construction mafia and the urban mafia reign in large Serbian cities. There's nothing you can do, gentlemen of the Ministry, because they know it best for two terms, if you don't find a solution with them, or at least if you don't arrest half of them there. If you don't, there's no deal. Now I'm following, and you're talking about the destruction of some objects, I don't know the Uvac, I don't know one lake, second, third, and all of these local authorities were giving it to the local authorities, and they looked through their fingers and said, "No matter what the minister, build it there and build it." Why? The inspection services have not responded and the facility cannot be destroyed now, if someone builds something, has moved in and has lived in it for years – it is incorrect. We brought people to the cost, and the local authorities allowed construction and sent inspection services pro-forma and said, hundreds of times I listened to footage that people were bringing – just build, let them do whatever they wanted from Belgrade. Here's where it comes from, what a difficult situation. The city of Belgrade, I repeat, did not allow it to revive nor legalisation, nor to revive any legality in urbanism and housing itself. Why? Because it doesn't suit them. They follow their rules that they have. Gentlemen of the DS, you have been leading the city of Belgrade since 2000. It's your responsibility. You need to talk to those people who sit there and try to find some solutions -- not to build parks; here, you saw, there's no place where they have no idea they're building, where they can't be allowed, they're built, and who's going to tear it down now, and in what way? Therefore, something can be done in wild construction, but in the root it should prevent construction, at the very beginning, from happening, and not allowing the construction to be completed, and then just reacting and doing anything, because it is incorrect to people who have separated from their mouths and built objects. Legalization of objects, I'd be glad to see you succeed, but there's nothing out of it. I remember how many meetings and arrangements there were, but the local powers, take in your friend's Zajecar, so there's a greater impact in Eastern Serbia on professors. Mica professor from Megatrend than all of you from the Ministry. He's the boss over there. The other day I was, people, a teacher made a coalition. He says - I made this government, I'm the boss there. Bosko Nicic, there's nothing you can do to him. He's the other boss. There's nothing you can do to him. People were bringing papers, going to the prosecution, working, breaking, praying, but he can't – he's sitting with ministers sitting in the government. He's making deals, they're all offering him some coalitions, and he's gonna support God, etc. Those local powers, you got this in Kragujevac, he's doing whatever he wants. He literally does what he wants, so your local DS board writes letters to you to somehow stop it and then they put it to a vote, and their majority vote it's okay to do what they do. It's nowhere in the world that most now vote for a mayor who does literally whatever he wants, who builds whatever he wants, who doesn't have a building permit for many capital facilities, without a permit building, etc. And he can do whatever he wants. And you must not ask him – what he does there and what he does, for Mladjan Dinkic comes to him. They take a walk, make a deal, shake hands, say hello, show up on the media, and literally a man does whatever he wants to vote for. I don't want to pick up other powerful men who do what they want. How could I as a minister and how would you stop the construction when "Delta Siti" was built without permission, without using permission, without anything. I'm telling Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic -- you can't open Djelic's unregulated facility, no papers. He says -- today's opening, I have to open it. He opened it, and does he now have a valid license - no, gentlemen? I built one facility on the mountain, in a remote village, and you asked me for everything, and a fire escape and a water tank, etc. Does Miskovic have a fire escape to Delta City? Do the mouth have papers and is everything all right? Do individual clinical centres, where large credit funds are invested, have papers – not? Today they don't have large capital facilities papers, they're made on the word of politicians. So it's still done, it's become a practice that's being applied, and you're going to be chasing someone named Ziku, Mike, for a little house whose kid didn't see the sea, whose kid doesn't know what a warm, straight shoe is. You're going to be chasing some woman who doesn't know what a kilo of meat is, who took it out of their mouths and built it, worked and paid taxes back then, sales taxes, because they did it wild, because they didn't have tax exemptions and over 30% put it into the state register through wild construction. They built their own infrastructures, made phones, paved, brought water lines and sewers. That's incorrect to these people, who have solved a big problem where they can live and should legalize it with just maybe a tax on how much the booking process costs. I say hello, and that's good, and that's how it has to be done. Anything else would be incorrect. We need to stop these powerful men, who have lost the compass in the building and who literally do what they want and build what they want. People, let me take you one day, whenever you want, to see where your main coalition partner built the house – on the roof of the building he built a private house with a yard. You want to see it? He's your coalition partner and your main capo in the government. I'm taking you on a trip to see, very close, and cross you left and right and say, "God, is this possible for a man on a building to wall the building?" A house on the building, he loves a man's home environment, so he decided to build a building in downtown Belgrade, 100 meters from Terrace. Whenever you want, Mr. Minister, to go and take pictures together there. I couldn't do anything to him. I don't know if you can. Why? He's in charge of you, he says – I made you a government, and a second, and a third, a fourth, a fifth, and all that. So, for nothing, this story is ours, unless the law is passed. I respect spatial planning. Did we just say -- traffic development strategy, roads must be done? That's what it's supposed to be, and that's what it's supposed to be, but it's gotta be done where the biggest traffic is. Is traffic at Lazarets in the last traffic count 27,000 cars a day? Yes, it is. Is it 15,000 to 17,000 cars in Liga a day in Cells? Yes, it is. And we're building there in Bujanovac and Presevo where 2,000 cars are the average per year. Europe says, Europe is looking for it, because the bases must have a highway. Those from Bujanovac and Preshev, when they're shooting at the gendarmes, must quickly flee to Germany or somewhere in Switzerland, to move quickly until the organs of order come to comb them. Why is it not built according to the spatial plan of Serbia, which was adopted and which has promised many in Serbia? Therefore, I hope that you will do something about it, not that the spatial plan is one formality, that the spatial plan adopted in the Serbian parliament is there some formal framework, and that it can literally work in these frameworks whatever combinations it wants. Mr. Minister, I wish you a lot of success, but I want you to cut down around you, around the government that is causing you basic problems, start building cheap, so that the municipalities in which there are poor people, housing difficult cases, allow for free locations with infrastructure and everything else, and then you will achieve the goal. New Serbia won't help you, it can only help you, but I repeat, you have a lot of things to solve around the government and that den that got caught, and that spider that can't get through it doesn't and doesn't let this all live. That's what I'm saying from experience. Thank you very much. The word has Minister Oliver Dulic. Oliver DULIC: Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, wanted to thank my predecessor, Mr Ilic, for this final discussion, and to say that this ministry has inherited a law that we consider to be good, it is the social housing law. We managed not only to push him through the government, but finally, thank God, to be before the MPs of the people and we will do everything to make him live in the forms in which he was planned when he was written from the beginning and to provide many families in Serbia who are socially threatened to reach those cheap apartments. I'll make one difference right now. So, social housing is one problem, another is the announced action of mass non-profit construction, which would be a classic state action, where our citizens, would be employed by state authorities or employees of private companies, according to certain criteria, could come up with cheap apartments, in which we would try to unite together actions and banks, and construction companies, and municipalities, and armies and all those who have the opportunity to participate in such a project. What is very important is that we raise the demand for housing to the government's stimulating measures through the functioning of housing loans, because the biggest problem at this time in the construction sector, which is recording the huge decline this year, is the lack of demand, and that in every city at one real price, which would be the price of a loan that could pay for a standard family in Serbia, people reach their roof over their heads. Social housing is intended for building for social categories, defined by a law that will be criteria, and later through strategies will be developed the way in which these apartments will reach the social category. What is important to say is that these apartments will not be given into possession, they will be leased and they will remain permanently owned by this state. I'll give an answer immediately to one of the MPs asking why the local social housing agency is shutting down. Only those local self-governments that have functional local agencies will be able to use these funds and I encourage every municipality to enter the creation of this agency as soon as possible. Let's start with something that's caused here. I thank all representatives of the parliamentary groups. I think the debate was very interesting. Generally, I have to say that we are satisfied with the debate, because about some of the key things that were essentially not too many objections, we can conclude that we agreed that these are the problems that need to be solved. First of all, I'm referring to the issue of the building permit issue. I think we've cut the deadlines maximum. At this point, we cannot say how much time it will be necessary to issue a building permit, because according to the existing law, a building permit was issued in a municipality in a few months, and in a municipality in a few years. So it's hard to say, and it depends heavily on the local administration, above all on political will, and then on the efficiency of local bureaucracy. By accessing the entire problem through the obligation of documents that are necessary to be brought, through the content of these documents containing the necessary parameters and criteria on the basis of which a permit can be issued, through the insistence on the adoption of the plan and the documents that as a ministry we will implement and, what is important, through one efficient and easily accessible procedure for all to issue permits, we hope that we will be able to regulate and resolve this problem. We are sure that you will support us in this, and this is, of course, an invitation to all of you, regardless of whether you come from a position or opposition, to insist strictly and strictly on implementing this law in the local self-governments from which you are finally trying to bring order into this area. As for the issues of planning and matters of spatial plans, I must say that we are on track to complete the new spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia. I want to make a promise here today. It will be in front of you in March or at the latest in April, and it will be the first step and the first organisational venture based on which local self-government and regions will be able to work their own spatial plans. If we insist on local self-government that within the deadlines provided for by this law they must bring their own spatial plans, we would like to go as a state authority for example and to first come up with a plan and on the basis that all plans to be made, and the lower ones are, are in line with the spatial plan that we are going to bring to you here in March, at the latest in April of next year. What's good is that we have completed Serbia's spatial development strategy. It will be presented, regardless of what it has been adopted in accordance with the old law, but it contains essentially a sublimation of all the strategies that have been adopted and presented so far and I am sure, when we distribute it to you to get acquainted with it, that you will see that we have entered very seriously into the reform of that system and that is part of the answer to the question it has asked. Of course, what is very important is what the last speaker was talking about, and as regards the introduction of order, above all to local self-government, I have repeatedly repeated and deeply believed that the biggest problem in Serbia that exists today is either one of the biggest problems in the core, the lack of regulation of the area of construction and urbanism, that this is one cancer wound in the introduction of the general order in Serbia, and that in the area of construction and urbanism of cancer and early cancer in Belgrade. If we can bring order to Belgrade, I'm sure we can establish order and all other municipalities. If we were to write a special law for Belgrade, it would contain a completely different solution to the rest of Serbia, because there was the most intense construction here, it was the largest number of investments and unfortunately there were the most complicated procedures, and unfortunately there were the most corruption, and the arbitration of the administration, and that's something that was a fact, and that's something that should be recognised and it should be dealt with. I must stress that, above all, the new mayor, Gilas, with one of his team of people, began to approach this problem completely differently, and for this very reason we have trust, and we have repeated this several times, that it is possible to change the situation and that it is a good indicator that when political will exists, it is much, much easier to introduce it. It won't be easy, it won't be easy to introduce order in Serbia and it won't be easy just for the people of the ministry to try to introduce order, it'll mean joint synchronised action, and you as MPs, and the entire government, and the interior ministry, and the prosecution, and the work of inspection bodies and local self-government, which is very important, the mayor who comes from all the parties sitting here today in parliament. No one is exempt from responsibility for the very bad situation that exists today in construction and urbanism, everyone is responsible for the percentage in which he participates in local authorities. I repeat, all the political sides participate in local authorities and have somehow contributed to wild construction, and to corruption, and to arbitration, and to come up with complicated procedures and to slow down the legalisation process, so all of the problems we are discussing here today, trying to solve them. How do we do that? First of all, by identifying the narrow throats of that process and trying to make it as possible to keep those narrow throats as wide as possible and no longer hold back. When we talk about legalization, it is true that in 2003 a law was passed that was presented as revolutionary and was to lay the groundwork for the solution to this problem. It is true that it has not been implemented to the end and that it has failed, and that at this point we can say that somewhere between 16% and 20% of all illegal objects in Serbia are only legalised in these six or seven years. It is true that we have, in the meantime, recognized all the bottlenecks that existed in the process and it is true that the local administration is quite poorly organised in the process, and I think that these solutions that will provide for old contracts, which will predict a much smaller volume of technical documentation, will be able to speed up this process and end it in some period that we consider to be realistic. This, again, will require, above all, a much better organisation of local administrations and I think that we as the Ministry will also provide professional support, but also some kind of pelcer in which the local administration should be organised when it comes to these facilities. Also, when we talk about legalisation, it's a story I repeated in a conversation with the mayor of Belgrade. We have received an amendment from the city of Belgrade, which has brought several Belgrade lawmakers here, as regards the legalisation of buildings that were built after 2003. The fact is that tens or hundreds of thousands of objects were built after 2003. The fact is, according to existing law, these people committed a crime. The fact is that by looking through the fingers or not at all, the state allowed these objects to be built, and the fact is that they should have been prevented at the very beginning and now we have something that's a real situation. No one can take those objects down anymore. I want to deliberately single out those objects that could never be legalized under this law, because these are objects that are built on protected natural goods, cultural goods, non-conditional materials, on other people's land, etc. Now let's talk about all the settlements around Belgrade and the big cities that have been built since 2003, which were mostly built because there was no plan base, so they couldn't get permission, or were built because someone bought land, couldn't wait for the authorisation procedure that lasted, unfortunately, several years. There were objective reasons. We want to accept that amendment, and we want to talk about it, let's say, let this legalization be mass and let this problem end, and let all these people get property rights over these facilities, let these people get the right to their children to inherit these objects and to mortgage them, to take some credit, to sell it. We agree with all that. Who will prove to us, and in what way, how credible, that there will never be again wild construction in Serbia? We would like to hear and see how local self-government will be organised in the future so that it will never allow illegal objects to exist again. I think we've done everything as a state now. We have passed a law that has significantly facilitated the authorisation process, and we have adopted binding provisions according to local self-governments that must regulate the state of the planning documentation in the coming period. We have completed the legalization process, which will be significantly simpler and cheaper for all objects in the past. Now let's agree to be one of the political consensus that always needs to be established in the country among all parties. I repeat again, all parties share responsibility because they all participate in authorities at local levels throughout Serbia. Let's never have wild construction in Serbia again. Let's reach that level that exists in some countries of Europe. Simply, there is no criminal act of wild construction there, because it is unimaginable that someone dares to build any object without adequate permits. Let's raise our level of awareness of respect for the law and respect for the space of a country so that this thing never happens again. This will, above all, involve much more active work of building inspections and much greater responsibility for local self-government and we have tried through this law and through the introduction of various criminal measures to stimulate this one greater control. The question has been raised here – why is it hastening to pass this law and this is about this very important segment of this law, which is a question of the conversion of the right to use into property rights. I have tried to communicate with parliamentary groups from the very beginning in a way that we have sent working versions of the laws and members of the Committee on Construction and Urbanism and the heads of Parliament groups. Public hearings started somewhere in September, October of last year. Many people participated in public debates, and it is not true that this law did not go through a few controls before it went through the government's procedure and came here today before you. In public debates, we have upgraded our ambitions, starting with some minimum law that should have been amended and complemented by the existing law in the process of issuing permits and we have come to an issue all the participants in the public debate agreed on. There are no arrangements in this area, no adequate reforms, no status arrangements, no insistence on finally reaching an area that would be fully settled, unless we solve these key problems that exist today in the area of construction and urbanism. It's a matter of property over building land and it's a question of the lack of planning documents and the irregularities of our space regarding the planning documents. And also, the issue of legalisation as a matter of correcting some of the mistakes both citizens and states have made in the past. That's why we decided to try to solve all the problems in one law. If that's what we've done, it'll show time. We are sure that through the acceptance of many of your amendments, I can only announce that we will indeed have a huge number of amendments, especially submitted by the MPs of the opposition, certainly accept and I think there are very good amendments. What's the key thing, and now I'd like to get an answer from some who called this law a criminal law, called us, I don't know, a family that works in favor of the tycoon, what's the argument for that? Let's hear why this law is criminal and what is it with this law earlier to the owners and their legal heirs losing what they haven't already lost? So, first I want the law on restitution and denationalisation and public property to be passed as soon as possible. We can't wait years and years for this problem to be solved. It is certainly deeply related to a serious political debate above all and one assessment of the country's economic potential to answer in an adequate way to the issue of restitution. We can't wait, we have to solve this area. By following the logic of Articles 83 and 84 of the existing law, we took the obligation to convert what was given by that law to property rights, to former owners and their legal heirs. So all those people who have acquired the right to use the right to property under the previous law. It's the first date to meet the previous owners. That's the first thing. The second thing, we predicted that the conversion of the right to use in the property rights that came from the privatisation process, that half of these funds would go to the restitution fund, the restitution fund from which these people would settle. What we cannot meet and what we must be clear to everyone, we cannot, first, enter the model on which the restitution in Serbia will take place, and secondly, I believe that when we started writing this law we started from one principle that says – the right of ownership of the facility follows the right of ownership over the land, Superfies solo cedit. So that is one legal norm that exists in the legislation of the continental and that exists in all countries. Nowhere in the countries of the former Yugoslavia was there and it was not possible to convert the right of use into property rights, i.e. to make a natural restitution on built building land. That would cause huge problems in this country. This means that someone is looking for a field in New Belgrade, which was once a swamp, physically returning to him, which in the past 60 years has become a boulevard, where the state has invested in drying out that swamp, in which buildings, streets that have become either private or public property regarding buildings, and that someone naturally thinks that this field will restitute itself and that it knocks on the door of hundreds of residents who may be living in those blocks today and that they are asking for compensation to be paid for using its building land. That's not possible. Such a model would cause millions and millions of new legal disputes and simply cannot, not this state, but no country that respects the transition process could accept. That's where the problem is, essentially. Let someone tell me what this law has to do with the damage of any man who's trying to exercise his right under some future restitution law, which I'm rooting for as soon as possible. Also, the charges that this is a tycoon law, I'd like to hear an argument about it. Don't read some citizens' letters. Let's see in this debate here today on what basis we haven't made the most just model, and that's that those who have acquired the right to use in privatisation procedures now have to pay the full market price minus the costs that are real. I think it's the most honest and correct way for those who have bought factories and businesses, knowing that they will not be engaged in basic activity, but that they are located in locations that will become in the future attractive building land, trying for cheap money to get to it, we said, no, that's not possible, you're going to have to pay a full market price, minus the real costs you've had, because these people have been buying. That's the answer to the other parliamentary group that's asking why we're now retroactively charging something. We don't charge retroactively, they bought a company, brand, employees, machines, buildings, but they never bought the right property over that land, they bought only the right to use, as long as there's some established activity that this company deals with. You want to change your performance, you want to convert and turn that land into a quality building plot on which you're going to build commercial content, you're going to have to pay. It's the most honest model possible and we represent it here today. I'd like to see why this model is tycoon, which is why the tycoon model is allowing someone who has the right to use it to finally become the owner of that land, and to implement what no one has potentiated enough, a constitutional standard for building land to finally be in private property. I think I've mostly answered most of your questions. What are some specific questions I still have to check, concerns the specific question asked by an SRS MP, Mr Bojan Mladenovic. We will accept most of your amendments as instructed here. That's what we agreed on on on on the Committee on Urbanism. As far as specific questions are concerned, we'll give you the answers, just to get the necessary information. I thank you for the very correct debates, and I would like to discuss the possibilities of accepting the amendments you have submitted in the coming days with the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24540	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the context of the debate on this set of laws that are on the agenda, I would like to lay down the social housing law. This law aims to create preconditions for solving the largest number of socially endangered populations, which today cannot solve a housing problem, which is also the biggest problem for each family. Subsidies in the housing sector are rarely directed towards endangered social categories and low-income households. This law creates preconditions to stimulate the construction of apartments through subsidies in the construction process, especially in the public sector. The past wars, which were waged at the premises of the former SFRY, have affected a huge increase in socially endangered citizens in Serbia. A large number of wartime military invalids, a family of fallen fighters, civilian disabled wars, refugees and displaced persons are categories of our fellow citizens who have been extremely difficult to solve, and could be said to be almost impossible. He's been missing for a long time, building a hedge fund. This category of citizens has been left without any possibility of resolving the housing issue. This is an opportunity for people who have defended their country to solve the housing issue, and I believe it in a very decent way. The material condition of that category of our citizens is very difficult, and under the conditions of the major crisis, creditworthiness is reduced to a minimum. They almost don't even think about housing loans. The resolution of their housing issue was reduced to waiting for donations, as I would like to quote a recent donation from the Carevina Japan, when with additional assistance from the Serbian government and local self-government around 300 wartime disabled and families of fallen fighters were taken care of. This is a unique opportunity to include this category of our citizens, who have made a major contribution to the defence of the state, in the criteria for determining the order of the housing needs of the person. I think the time has come to regulate this unsettled area and start housing for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are unable to resolve the housing issue in another way. There is no negligible fact that in the implementation of this law, a solid construction operation, which today lacks work, and our builders are recognized in the world as well known as very professional and capable. The good side of the application of the social housing law is that, hopefully, at affordable prices, renting an apartment of many socially endangered families, and today there are indeed many in Serbia, to solve their housing problem. The SPS-JS parliamentary group has submitted amendments which we are sure are in no way disrupting the aim and purpose of the proposed law, but only improving it, and in this regard we believe that our amendment will consider and respect it. Finally, I would like to stress that the SPS-JS parliamentary group will in principle vote in favour of all four draft laws that are on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24541	The word is a folk letter from Vesna Pesic, followed by the MP of the people, Miroslav Pejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24542	First of all, I would like to say that Minister Dulic and his associates are facing a big problem that, first of all, they are making one of these big and complex laws and trying to introduce order into an area that is the most chaotic, and many of our areas are chaotic -- education, health, but I think this one is the most chaotic, because in the 1990s, when the state seems to have completely lost any power over the space in Serbia, so that during that period we have received a huge majority of wild construction, about 300 thousand illegal buildings, then the concentration of non-hygienic settlements, first of all within Belgrade, the emptying of entire villages and cities. It's just that the question of space planning has completely gotten out of hand with any control, so we really are, and legislatively, and visually, however you want, in a completely chaotic sphere. The LDP thinks it might have been better, not with one blow, and not with a big one like this, how can I say, with the law, not thinking that I'm insulting anyone, that one blow solves such complex and complicated issues. I know that the motive was to try to enable Serbia to attract as much foreign investment as possible, and that is certainly a noble motive, and to enable this foreign investment to be made safe that it was important to resolve the property issue over land and speed up the obtaining of building permits and other documentation needed for construction. When we look at that it was probably this basic motive that led to the adoption of this law, the question is, how much has this law ever managed to solve these issues, to simulate the procedure, whether, when we look at this about building permits, we just heard some very interesting discussions, really it will be accelerated or there will be even more problems or some kind of permits, I will point out, which may be unnecessary, whether a legal process has actually been done or even more complicated and more difficult to apply? That leaves an open question for me. I can even specify some moments where it would prove that there are really some procedures that are not necessary. In order not to take too much time, I believe that when it comes to Article 4, asking for certificates on the energy likeness of the facility, it's completely unclear who those certificates are going to issue. Can't the technical commission be expert, to standardize it, but it needs some kind of service to issue such certificates. When it comes to local self-government and others, it can become a monopoly again and we don't know who's going to do it. You have, for example, in article number 8, a local investor register. What does the local investor register mean? If I'm registered as an investor in Nis, then am I in Backo Palanca? What kind of registers are these? Who runs those registers? What are these registers for anyway? Instead of free flow of capital, suddenly we have some registers of investors that are completely unnecessary. In addition, you have a republican spatial planning agency, members 71 to 81. I don't know why you need that agency, because she has so many duties to control herself. We make institutions that are inside a conflict of interest and that will be corrupt in advance and that no one will be able to control alive. That may be, Mr. Dulic, what some have had some doubts that there may be certain spaces. It's not about tycoons, but some of the tycoons that are being created are certainly causing some suspicion, from these registers, as I said, to some agency like this. Why does a state body set up such an agency, where they hire some of their party officials and make strong, new institutions? You can't even see why it's necessary. Very often for the use of permits, these checks are purely formal. Don't make a clean formal checkup of the facilities. Let them be real, and then all those institutions that you've listed here in no way would be necessary to you, unless they were pure form without actually having any meaning. For me, too, it's important what used to be, and I have to say on the sociological side, I participated in research, let's say, when it was done by the New Railway, compared to the old man who was a rural community and the New Railway that was an urban community, we did sociological research on citizens who live there. You don't have any public from the concept, and in the whole planning process, the simple public is down to those 30 days, but so when it's all over and the public and the citizens aren't explored anywhere, they can't participate in the planning process itself anymore, but when it's all over, then again the forms are given for some 30 days, when they can't do anything anymore. I say, here in the '70s, I've participated in such research, that they've been asking citizens, and they've decided about their space and their environment, and now we see, today in the 21st century, our citizens don't have a chance to edit their space. They only have that, and that's what I'm going to end up with because we have a little time, our parliamentary group, to draw attention, it was the only non-discipline and that chaos was given to citizens as an opportunity, to build wild construction. How's that legalisation going? That's a big question. I think the more legalized it's going to be, the more they're going to do to create new illegal objects. You can't see how it's going to stop at all, you can't see from this law that such a chaotic situation is going to stop at all in the future. So these are some major issues that I've had, and I'm going to leave it to other colleagues who want to add something, that they have a chance to say, that it might have been better if we had gone more gradually, the law by law, that we'd systematically done it, than we'd gotten a single conglomerate of this law, whose application really isn't clear and there's a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24543	The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Pejic, followed by a National MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24544	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are four very important legislative proposals in front of us today, and as a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection, I will first say something about the proposal for a law on the environmental fund. I'll remind you that we recently passed a whole set of laws in this area dealing not only with protection but also with environmental damages. In order for all these laws not only to remain a dead letter on paper, we were then announcing that the envisaged environmental fund law was passed. The fund created in the adoption of this law aims, on the one hand, rationally and in the best possible way to spend funds collected from economic operators bearing polluter status. On the other hand, the fund is also a provision of legal certainty to economic operators who settle their obligations to the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, which in the future will have a very significant impact on the decision-making of an investor in the event of investment of their capital in our country. So, by adopting an already valid set of laws, we have allowed all preventive measures, as well as criminal provisions, to rest on the principle of wage polluter. In order to raise funds directly from contaminants, it is necessary to establish a fund in which these funds will be collected and then, according to plans, projects and needs, to make the same funds available to the environments that are necessary. The existence of such a fund does not just mean providing quality management of dedicated funds under the law, but rather enables its existence to compete with numerous international financial institutions, as well as with various major global foundations, which are aimed at protecting the environment. The opportunities ahead of the foundation of this fund are indeed numerous. This best confirms world practice, on the basis of which we can conclude that the adoption of laws on environmental funds and their implementation has contributed to the achievement of the objectives of life and work protection, the preservation of natural balance, the rational use of natural resources, the use of renewable resources, and, most importantly, to ensure the development of human health. I believe that investment in the environment is an investment not only in our future, but also in the future of our children and all generations to come. The value of this law certainly also gives transparency, i.e. the public that it provides for in the allocation of funds, as well as the public in determining the criteria on which these funds will be allocated, as well as their use. As an MP from Loznica, I will point out the importance of adopting this law for local environments most affected by various types of pollution. I hope that in the near future, there will be an opportunity to resuscitate and relocate the city's dump, located on the edge of Loznica, and now it has spread so much that it takes up part of the city itself. In addition to the efforts so far made by the local self-government, as well as great understanding by the resolution ministries, this problem is still waiting for a solution. The causal inability to solve such or similar problems lies precisely in the incompetence of already existing funds. Knowing the problems of environmental threats in other cities and municipalities, I don't think Loznica differs with its problems in this important area, but I just want to point out how important it is for the adoption of such a law for each local self-government. Only the existence of this fund allows access to international financial flows, which will bring the greatest benefit to local self-government, and thus to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Another legal proposal I'd like to talk about today is a bill on social housing. Unfortunately, the period of transition, the war facts in the old Yugoslavia, whose consequences have not been removed so far in Serbia and the increasingly present consequences of the global economic crisis, have conditioned a very unfavourable social map of our country's population. For these reasons, we in Serbia today have a socially endangered population group, which, for social, economic and other reasons, is difficult for itself and for its consequences, provides existence, with naturally unresolved housing issues. Because of all this, I find it extremely important that today's proposal for a social housing law is in front of us. I will only remind myself that social housing implies housing of a certain standard, which is provided with the support of the state and is intended for households which, for social, economic and other reasons, cannot provide themselves with an apartment on market conditions. The adoption of a national strategy provided for by this law will contribute greatly to the resolution of a large number of problems of this kind. Also, the establishment of a republican housing agency, as well as local organisations of the same purpose, will certainly contribute to the quality of rerouting of funds both from the state and local level. The value of such a long-term and institutionalised approach to this important problem, aimed at achieving a sustainable social balance, certainly lies in greater access to foreign donor organisations, as well as numerous specialised international agencies dealing with both professional and financial assistance in solving all these problems. The criteria provided for in this law, which in future will determine the status of persons who meet the conditions for some of the types of social housing, are – current housing status, income height, disability, number of household members, etc. It is also important that all organisations that will implement the social housing strategy, as this law provides, must be of a non-profit character. I would take this opportunity to pass on the positive experience of the passwordd self-government of this kind to this home. Today when we talk about this law, we have confirmation that this is the way of housing solving the most socially endangered categories possible. In Loznica, we already have two residential buildings of this kind, which have solved housing problems slightly less than 25 of the most socially endangered families. It is about projects that have been launched based on successful co-operation of local self-government and foreign donor houses, with the help of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The first building, or residential building, is funded thanks to the Japanese government's help. The purpose of these apartments is to resolve the housing issue of wartime military invalids. Local self-government secured the location and built a complete accompanying infrastructure. The second facility was achieved thanks to the assistance of the Swiss SDC, and the purpose of this donation was to focus on the housing of exiled and refugees. The experience gained by the management of the Loznica through the implementation of these projects is enormous, and this also points to the highest rating of both donors and the competent ministry. We have already been convinced in part of the positive effects that the legislator has stated in his explanation. In doing so, I am primarily referring to the provision of socially endangered groups of people, but it must not be ignored even the positive results arising from the partnership of the public and private sector engaged in the construction of buildings. I sincerely believe that the adoption of this law will contribute not only to the formal filling of the legal vacuum created by the termination of the Law on Tax on the Fund, which financed solidarity construction by 2004, but that the implementation of this law will successfully solve the accumulated problems of the socially endangered category of the population in all municipalities and cities of Serbia. I believe that such examples as Loznica, and today we have heard the Kings, there are many more, and that after the adoption of this law, there will be even more, where, with good co-operation from the local self-government ministry and with the help of donors, the problems of the poorest layers of the population will be solved. I believe that in these difficult times, we must show collective responsibility and help those who have the most difficulty. At the very end, I would like to say that in the voting day the G17 Parliament Club will support all four legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24545	Before I give my word to the next speaker, on the basis of Article 85(5), I would like to inform the MPs that we will continue our work today after 18 hours of debate on the point that is on the agenda at that time. There is the word Milica Vojić-Markovic, followed by National MP Bojana Stanojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24546	Mr. Minister, which you are obviously not here right now, but I must commend Mr. Minister with his associates that it is mostly here when the laws of this type are being discussed, ladies and gentlemen MPs, social housing is actually a non-profit and not a market building of apartments for poor citizens and their families, because poor citizens are not able to provide decent housing conditions for themselves and their households and their families under market conditions. As I would say, this social housing is a public housing sector that actually comes first from the poorest citizens, and then extends both the type and number of target groups. If we look at the 2007 data in Serbia, it's the latest data on Serbia's poverty, about 6.6% of Serbia's population lived below the poverty line, and that's a large number of people moving over 500,000 people or half a million people. The data from this last year, 2008, has not been done yet, but everything says that it is over 10% of Serbia's residents who are obviously not going to be able to provide apartments, along with all other poor categories that can't provide apartments either. Still, this is about the poorest ones, and that's what they're called. groups such as women and children, families with multiple members, persons with disabilities, old faces, refugees, displaced persons, members of national minorities and ethnic groups. This is precisely because, most of all, this government, which loves to say to itself that it is socially responsible, but obviously did not take care of these social groups, led them to this lower poverty line by a year 4% and more, so it must have a role and increased responsibility to help these categories of population. The housing policy obviously plays a major role and must play a major role in the repression of poverty, in the integration of national minorities and ethnic groups, as well as in all of these categories of population that I have cited. This means that social housing programmes must and how to be linked to other social state programmes, especially those related to social protection. In this country, we have a little disparity, a waste on all sides, and we cannot agree that on one track together, we have an impact on poverty reduction. I must say, it's very good that this law finally saw the light of day and that it came to the congregation, even if it was in such a consolidation of power among three other very important laws. It seems to me that in this way he will not be able to pay attention to him, and to my colleagues who have dealt with this problem on committees, and that he cares about this being spoken publicly today and that this is how it is spoken. The DSS has worked really long on the draft of this law, and we have submitted several amendments, I think a dozen amendments from this area, and I think that these are quality amendments, precisely because I want to apostrophe and the problems that we wanted to cover, and obviously in the bill, you didn't solve them very well. It seems to me that you have not determined enough what has been potential for the development of social housing in both regional and financial terms. It's just that you haven't defined that enough, and you haven't asked what our potentials are. I mean, before we passed that famous law on regional development, we had one disparity 7-1, one really big difference in regional development, and with this law where everything is centralized and everything decided by the almighty Dinkic, who obviously loves and composing, it will be an even greater expressed problem. On the other hand, you haven't even used existing capacities. Serbia is filled with unfinished buildings, full of abandoned objects, and I think it is very important that you have accurate information about it. Maybe it's easier to buy them, to do infrastructure, somewhere it's also done, to simplify and cheap them, which is important in these conditions, building apartments. You don't just have to talk about new apartments here, but our capacity can be apartments that are already built and abandoned. We are also not satisfied as a parliamentary group that you have not precisely defined the criteria for renting apartments, defining the deadlines for renting apartments, then defining the price of apartments, who maintains these apartments, which are the obligations of tenants in terms of building maintenance. These are things that need to be regulated and we have offered our amendments some of those solutions that we think should be accepted. As with the parliamentary group, we oppose that in these times of economic crisis, when the largest number of citizens cannot put an end to the end, you form another new agency, which will be a legal person and will be practically under the authority of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, and we think that this ministry has the capacity and is big enough to just cover this job and that there is no need, really boldly and arrogantly, to establish new bureaucratic apparatus that only increases the costs of Serbian citizens. Also, you did not foresee anywhere the possibility that Serbian citizens, who had paid funds and allocated funds for housing self-independence, so some, for God's sakes, and 30-40 years and retired not to get an apartment from society, under the conditions offered by this law, get an apartment in a slightly different and simpler way. I will cite as an example the situation of educational workers who have lived in the country for years, lived in people’s apartments, obtained pensions, and lost their apartment and no living conditions. That's one example. Then, nowhere in the law, you explicitly mention no refugees, no displaced faces. That can't happen, you have to take care of it. We still have a problem. We've actually received huge and significant funds from foreign donors in the past, something we've done together, local self-government with foreign donors, and we've provided a few dozen and hundreds of social housing apartments, but I really think we need to take care of this. As the DSS parliamentary group, we believe that the law is important, that it is important to define precisely everything we have said here, because if you define something precisely, then there is no confusion and there is no possibility of being abused in any way. That's why we think you can accept our amendments, look at them and talk about them. I'm just going to say a sentence about the environmental fund, because I think it should be mentioned, that it's a completely chaotic situation in Serbia. Here's an example of regional dumps. Today’s newspaper article discusses exactly that. I think that's the topic we need to open. I really don't want to take time away from my fellow MPs, who really have something to say on this subject, but I just want to say that it's very important to make sure that this fund is really taking care of even development at this point, because it took responsibility to centralize something that local self-government can do. We, as a parliamentary group, have submitted a series of amendments and this, because we think it's unspeakable, incorrect, and we think that in the best tradition, how we did it when it was a set of these environmental laws, we're going to continue to work together on these amendments, because we think they're quality, and I think we can fix the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24547	The word has a folk MP Bojana Stanojevic, followed by MP Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24548	The President-in-Office, respected representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs, in a set of laws that we are considering today dominates the law on the regulation of space and construction, and this is certainly one of the most important laws that this assembly should adopt. We are witnessing the urban chaos that governs the good part of our country, the spatial irregularities, inadequate maintenance of construction heritage and cultural goods, as well as protected natural continents. The reason for this is the lack of plans, as well as the overcoming of existing plans that continue to apply and the non-compliance with laws and regulations. All of this has caused the need to pass a new, modern law, which will try to solve these problems and, in that sense, arrange our space. What is very important about the bill is the fact that it really simplifies and makes plans and implements them, i.e. the process of obtaining a building permit. We are all well aware of the fact that Serbia is among the countries with the slowest administration, especially when it comes to the process of obtaining a building permit. It is now important to shorten that time under the new bill, by simplifying the process of issuing a building permit and by far less documents needed to obtain a building permit, as well as a shortened period of time for which the responsible persons in the authorities of the administration have to issue those documents. The number of plans available to territorial units, both spatial and urban, has been reduced. What is very important is what plans must be made for units of local self-government and within what time period, and through the Law on Local Self-Government, sanctions will be laid down for municipalities that do not adopt the necessary spatial and urban plans within a certain period. In other words, if a municipality does not adopt a spatial plan of the municipality and a plan of general regulation, it will be punished, sanctioned by the introduction of provisional measures. So we finally give importance to the planning acts at that level as well as to the budget. It is also very important to establish a hierarchy of documents of spatial and urban planning. They must be consistent with each other, so that the documents of the narrow area must be in line with the plans of the wider area, and all together must be absolutely in line with the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia. The design of the planning documents is managed by responsible planners and responsible urbanists, who receive appropriate licences from the Engineering Chamber. Under the 2003 law, the responsible urbanist's license could be obtained by persons of the proper profession, including graduate spatial planners. However, this bill deprives them of this right and puts them in an unequal position compared to other technical professions. I think that, in this sense, a correction should be made in law and spatial planners to restore the same opportunities that they had so far, i.e. the possibility of obtaining and licensing a responsible urbanist. What is very important is the new law also introduces the existence of a central register of plans, documents to be conducted by the competent ministry. All plans to be adopted under this law will be recorded in this register and thus made available to all. So anyone who wants to get information -- what is the purpose of the space and what urban parameters apply anywhere in Serbia -- will be able to see it on the Internet or how it will be organised by the Ministry. In this way, among other things, any abuse of information about a location is prevented, and we have witnessed largely for all these years. Otherwise, these are new concepts that appear in this law – location information and location permit. Information on the location is closest to the previous urban purpose report, and the location permit is a document on the basis of which technical documentation is made, i.e. a document containing all technical data and all urban parameters that are sufficient for the designer to produce the main project. Detailed construction land, the shape of its property, the way it was used. What I would specifically single out is a problem related to the construction of building land. The law stipulates that compensation is paid for the construction land according to decisions and programmes adopted by local self-government units. The law also stipulates that these funds, therefore, obtained from the compensation for the construction land, are used exclusively on purpose. However, I am responsibly saying that this is not the case in practice. Very often these funds are used for some completely different things, which is the worst, very often go for salaries of people who are employed in local self-government. I think it would be necessary, in that sense, to find a way to control it, because if some general control was carried out at the level of all Serbia, in all municipalities, I'm afraid these claims would be confirmed. Perhaps the solution to this problem would be to create an obligation in a certain law to raise funds collected from the compensation for the regulation of construction land to be income exclusively to public enterprises that care for the arrangement of construction land, and whose founders are certain territorial units. In fact, there is the biggest problem with those public enterprises whose founder is the local self-government unit. It is only in this way that we would allow these funds to be really used for the purpose, that is to be used for the construction land, for the acquisition of building land and for the construction and maintenance of infrastructure, which is necessary for complete building land. The very important newspaper that this law introduces is the possibility of converting the right to use into property rights with or without compensation. This is how a certain kind of restitution is done to the extent that this can be done through the law governing space and construction. What has greatly affected the poor situation in the spatial and urban arrangements throughout Serbia is certainly a poor work of inspection services, I mean, first of all, construction inspection. The existence of a large number of illegal objects and the accidental use of space tells about the problem of abuse and malfeasance. This law gives greater authority to the construction inspection and its adequate application will significantly affect changes in the existing situation. So, the work of construction, of course, and urban inspection and full respect for the legislation will have the most impact on the proper editing and use of space. One of the most common topics in this area is certainly the legalisation of illegally built objects. Therefore, a continuation of this process, which has been stopped for a time, is envisaged, by detailing which objects can enter the legalisation process, with which documentation and within what time period. In this respect, it should certainly be borne in mind that law-abiding builders have threatened the planned spatial and urban development of the area in which they were building and that this practice should be permanently contained. One way is certainly the inability to attach illegal objects to an infrastructure network, as well as to punish an official who commits an illegal facility to any infrastructure network. Penalties detail the methods of punishment for certain offences. However, the impression is that some of the offences are not adequately ranked. For example, the level of penalties for offences when a responsible official in the competent authority of the administration, past the law, issues a locational, construction or use permit cannot certainly be leveled with the level of penalties for infringements when the same official does not issue that document within the prescribed time limit. So the degree of social danger and consequences that can arise when documents are issued beyond laws and plans are certainly much higher, and this must also be highlighted at the level of punishment. In that sense, I have submitted amendments and I hope to come to an understanding by the Ministry. However, regardless of some objections, this is without a doubt a reformist law, a law that opens up opportunities to address many of the problems burdening Serbia's spatial and urban development and the ZES parliamentary group will declare their adoption in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24549	The word is from MP Mico Rogovic, followed by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24550	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens, in the further part of the debate, I will deal with problems dealing with the draft law on the regulation of space and construction, and within the time of the SNS parliamentary group, and the rest of the time, counterpart Jelena Budimirovic will talk about social housing problems. In my previous presentation, I came to the second chapter of this bill relating to building land. I must again point out that it is also our position that such a problem should be treated by a special law. I must point out that in the mid-60s last century, the law prohibited the sale of agricultural land of the first category, i.e. the renaming of that land into building land, with one basic goal to protect agricultural production. It could only be done to establish public interest in building infrastructure, roads, railways, airports, energy and similar facilities. What's going on with us, especially in the last eight years and all under the guise of reform? It happens that who knows what amount of land, which number of hectares of agricultural land has changed its purpose and is now under construction land. If we take just one example here in Belgrade, in a move from Bezanjska Kosa, through the Airport, a bypass around Belgrade, in the earlier period, for example, a hectapoljo economic land purchased from their owners for 2.5 thousand German marks, and the possessions occurred through the privatisation of businesses by a small number of people who now represent large capital. Contrary to the law, most of that agricultural land has changed its purpose to construction. Now the owners of the large capital sell land at enormous prices, and let's say in this move prices range from 500,000 to over 2m euros, depending on the location of the land. It is obvious that the intentions of this section of the building land are one-off and exclusively concern solving the concerns of the owner of large-scale capital. For years, they gained the right to use construction land through the abovementioned ways, or to privatise companies or manipulate with state and local self-government. I guess now is the last moment for these problems to be solved and to be legalized until now what has been done. The donation of building land leaves the owners of large-scale capital first to the state without property, then loses the means to achieve health care, maintain the education system, function the pension and disability system, further reduce public debt. No one is authorized to play this way with both ours and the future generations behind us. They will pay for someone's mistakes, ignorance, or, in any case, abuse of a political position. This is all I'm saying is not politics. This is indeed the reality that this law and its application will legalize all that happened in Serbia before it was passed. If all is well, in this section of the building land, when it comes to a member of 106 who speaks about the conversion of the right of use into property rights under compensation, why do the powers that the minister has in Article 205 and do not prescribe what model and method of price formation is for both Article 106 and Article 108? Everyone knows the number of state and social enterprises, for example, from bankruptcy purchases and how many of them the production process takes place. To make the problem even bigger, with what size and what land fund do these companies have? Despite the fact that these companies and giants have been purchased for small funds, they will be given the right, despite the fact that there is no production process in these buildings and that nothing is done in these buildings, the right and the reward with hectares of the building land? This law, i.e. By turning building land into property, it also makes it impossible to restitution by natural vomiting. The previously established value of a financial compensation for assets that cannot be returned in natural form is, if you remember, about four billion euros, and in 20 years it will additionally burden the public debt, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the new 10 billion euros. Someone who's been doing a draft and the bill hasn't thought too much about it. The renting of land would also solve the problems I had mentioned in the previous explanation. After all, one symbolic comparison. Would someone, for example, who gets 7,000 euros a year for the rent of his apartment, and by selling that apartment get 50,000 euros, sell or rent an apartment? Probably would've continued with his follow-up. The next chapter in processing this bill is the construction of objects, which also deserves, as well as the above-mentioned chapters, a special law. This law should regulate both the state and private investor obligations. Investments in which the state participates as a majority partner, which are investments over 51%, should be under more serious social control, and this implies the highest public participation in a clear definition of the need to build a planned facility. I must point out that many state, local self-government facilities in the previous period, even now, are being built without projects and without a building permit. Then, the highest public participation is in the process of financial pre-accounting and the realisation plan, design solutions must be provided by public competition, concession, planning, design, project audit, implementation, equipment and supervision must be provided exclusively by public competition. Bookkeeping and state investment must be a public document, at any time available to the public. The point of these mechanisms is to protect social interest. In the case of private investments, including those where the state participates as a minority partner, the responsibility for the success of these investments must lie exclusively on the investor. The State is responsible for controlling the implementation of the building permit, as conditions for obtaining the applicable authorisation and for creating conditions that the building permit cannot be changed during the realisation of investments. If the investor did not comply with the building permit during the construction process, he could not get a valid permit and so the investor was forced to comply with the rules of the game. Unfortunately, this is not seen as sufficient importance for us to use the permit, to the extent that a certain number of objects function without it. We have submitted amendments to this area and we expect their application to improve further these members and will improve the existing law. In that case, there will be no such situation as, say, in Vienna, a worker fell off the board when performing the work on a facade, for the reason that the contractor hired black workers and it was also unprofessional workers and workers who did not know how to place a facade. Just remember the accident that happened in New Sad when eight teenagers died. All this because the law, and in part of this bill, allows the investor to adapt business premises with the involvement of black workers, so the situation is happening that neither he, and at least the workers who perform the work, knew that there are fire coating systems, or materials, fire coatings that can protect wood. The law is to blame for the fall of a building in Dubljanska Street in Belgrade, because it allows individual companies with two divers and four trucks to make such dangerous excavations. Also, when a part of the facade fell from the Simpo store in Belgrade and, fortunately, it hurt no one, it just damaged the car. I also have to remind you of a case where a fire in a flat in Pančev, part of the tenant of that lame was found on the street, or this caused situation, made them homeless. All of this has been predicted, to improve the amendments mentioned in this section that deal with the law, so that such and similar things don't happen. We have a situation that the citizens of a lamel, or tower building, have fought to the point that they literally led to an incident that was at the border fighting and the possibility of someone getting hurt, because low-level residents did not want to participate in the reconstruction of the roof and the building that was sneezing. The bill, as well as the previous law, enables further work on black, by not paying VAT and showing the material as expenses made possible by its proposal. The proposed amendments we have submitted include the application of all works, in addition to the other competent authorities listed in the proposal for this law, and the construction inspection and labour inspection, which would remove the previous problems. Not to list all the accidents, to list the last accident that happened because of all these failures that such a law could allow itself, and if you do not adopt the proposed amendments, unfortunately, in the future there may be similar ones, and that is the situation when the building collapsed on Zlatibor, fortunately, without casualties. These days, the current situation of a building on Starara, where apartment buyers found themselves in wonders, because the apartments purchased were mortgaged by investors. In 2006, the investor concluded mortgage agreements on the building with the "Valks Bank" and during that time, and before that, he sold apartments afterwards, and even part of the sale went through this bank. We're wondering what's going on in this area and what all the potential customers can meet with? The investor owes over 2m euros for the facility, and the facility is worth over 2m euros, and it stems from all these frameworks that can regulate it. We would be pleased if there were more news of this type that according to the programme to build non-profit apartments, at prices as one colleague said, 360 to 800 euros, depending on the location, there are more and more of these apartments. To remind the ministry that this proposal is also on the working version of them on the table. Finally, we come up with chapters dealing with the legalization of objects in this bill. The assessment of your ministry is that these projects in Serbia are over a million. The root of the legalisation problem, from the SNS point of view, lies in two different segments. The first segment is the construction of residential and small crafts facilities for personal use, life and work, which were mainly created by migration between 1991 and 2000, and even after that, and all of this happened for all known reasons and events and events in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. These are facilities that are mainly on unregulated land, for which the necessary infrastructure is to be built. Another example is building apartments and buildings to commercialize them. This should also be completely separated by this chapter of legalisation and, therefore, the SNS has tabled amendments to this chapter of the bill. Drastic examples in Belgrade's municipalities, i.e. in the city, where over 400,000 illegal objects were granted: for example, for the municipality of Zemun, 21,600 were filed, 6300 were granted, only 1,000 permits were granted, and 1,100 were rejected; or on Vozdovac, as the second case of the municipality, 17,700 lodged requests, granted 7,000, denied 1,000, issued only 900 permits and thus other examples on this subject. The lack of technical and legal documentation owned by private persons, as well as the lack of awareness of local self-government and all the problems you have even, Mr. Minister, should not be blamed for the current bad effects of legalisation of buildings built by May 2003. Given the time to leave to my colleague, I would just like to point out that we cannot legalise objects because of the failure of the state or administration of local self-government to share it for a period of 13 or 20 May 2003, or for a period after that, because a large number of reconstructed and built objects are also in this period. And once we've tried this area, we're trying to make sure that it's the day this law is passed and that we make every effort in that direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24551	The word has a folk MP Milan Avramovic, followed by MP Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as someone who is seriously involved in the analysis of the Belgrade City Assembly, I must present these documents and evidence that this is pure tycoon law and deny the minister who tried in all ways to avoid it. So, I will remind you only of the session of the City Assembly that took place a month or 30 days ago, where the agenda of the change in the Decision on the level of land use compensation, which changes one provision that says that every person who settles all obligations in one drink or suddenly has the right to discount 30% and that the existing change in the city budget gives an advantage that every person who settles or pays the full commitments he has on the basis of the lease has the right to increase from 30% to 50%, with an explanation of the increase in income in the City budget due to the economic crisis. I must remind you that at one of the next budget rebalancing sessions, which also took place on the agenda due to the economic crisis, according to this item, that is, by this purpose, a reduced representation of 3.5 billion dinars of revenues in the Belgrade City Assembly based on a decision made not full months earlier. I must also remind myself that the Serbian Radical Party's committees have requested that the same principle or archaic discount on one drink of paid commitments or debt apply to persons, i.e. citizens who are in the process of legalization. The city's assembly rejected this proposal, and thus, at the very beginning, there is evidence that it is a tycoon law that only cares about the interests of large capitalists, not ordinary citizens, because one rule applies to ordinary citizens and other rules for large capitalists. But when it is so in the capital of this country, it is no different in the country itself. I will also remind you of a meeting or commission set out for the determination of facts related to the handling of the competent authorities and organisations in connection with the status of Luke Belgrade, which took place on 15. 05. In 2009, in which the president of Belgrade's radicals asked the mayor if he knew that the 1961 contract and the 1975 contract specified that the land was given for use on condition that only port activity was carried out. He says he is. On the second question -- is the view of the city of Belgrade that the city should not take away land according to the law, the mayor says: My view is that the city should take all the land it can in any way take. The next question was whether or not you know, Mr. Gilas, that, in accordance with the Law on Planning and Construction, the land that was not brought in for the purpose by the end of May 2006, or whether the right to use the tenant ceases. Mayor Dragan Gilas explains it this way: Yes, with the law being required to follow a law on denationalisation and restitution, which unfortunately has not been adopted. Watch the irony now: We expect a new law, which will soon appear in the Serbian Parliament, to finally regulate what happens to such land. Here, that law came to the Republic Assembly. It is clear that the mayor did not want to take away land from Luke Belgrade, because he was bound by the law of 2003, and he is also calling for a law that has yet to be adopted, and this same law gives something that is not a state-owned third party or something that is state-owned for ordinary impunity. I remind you that the mayor himself, without a standoff in the Law on Local Self-Government and the Statute of the City of Belgrade, signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Luka Belgrade. I remind you, Mr. Dulic, and some of your statements, because it is clear that both Luke and the City cannot be, because you yourself said that changes in the plan will not be, because this is one of the four strategic ports in Serbia. I ask you, are you and will you punish the mayor with the measures you provided for by this law because he was at a real estate fair in Cannes on 12 March, where he presented the project "Belgrade, a town on water"? If, according to Belgrade's spatial plan, Serbia's spatial plan and Belgrade's general plan by 2021, it is planned to be an economic activity and to be a port, not a residential zone. This only raises the question because it can be concluded that the mayor has long begun to implement this tycoon law, although it has not yet been adopted, because the plan of Luke Belgrade, i.e. Her customers, Beka and Miskovic, were long ago, which is also the basic reason for Luke's purchase, to build a residential zone. I have to mention some basic concerns about this law. You know that we in the SRS have always insisted, especially in the last year, on drafting and planning documentation, because it's a simple motor development of the economy, if it's possible to implement this bill at all. I would also like to mention those misunderstandings relating to the parts of this law. The law also speaks of some new terms that are unknown to urbanism, and this is obviously the character and work of Aleksandra-Saske Damjanovic, who has been advented from the Sava Venac municipality as a chamber of DS in this ministry. I will remind you that the location permit or term of the location permit does not exist and that the location permit is something that contains all the conditions and data needed to produce the technical documentation, in accordance with the applicable planning documents. I ask the question – aren't these urban parameters and other urban data, the elements prescribed by the plan's urbanist document? The location in its Semantic meaning has already been defined and there is no need to use it for permission and in general the term – ironing license. I have to draw your attention to the grossly developed building surface, as far as it goes, but in order not to waste my time, I'm going through the amendments. The plot or point 2) of Article 2 of index 13, which says that the horizon is a projection of a built or planned object, what does that mean? The area under the facility has always been a grossly built area. Ground objects do not increase any geometry or arithmetic, i.e. the projection of the upper floors does not change the situation on the ground. I'll explain it to you through the amendments we've written, even on this article, in detail so I don't waste my time. The difference between a responsible planner and a responsible urbanist does not exist and we do not know what the essence of separation is in this law. In this bill, as in the past, there has been a separation of planners from urbanists, so that only finished spatial planners can be considered under the planer, which in this translation is a random relationship between the name profession and the type of job. I'm asking you, what about architecture engineers, buildings, etc? Infringements in law, the obligation to call an urban and architectural competition to resolve locations that are important to the local self-government unit. And again, I ask you what is the basis and on what criteria local self-government can determine what is of its importance, and therefore not endanger the interest of others in its territory. I'll give you examples, Mr. Dulic, in which you can clearly prove your claim to stand firm behind this law, blocks one and 20 on the Sava Veneto municipality. It's a case that the lady sitting next to you is very well aware of, because it encourages her working experience from the Sava Venac municipality, where one block represents an island in downtown Belgrade because local authorities want to implement it under the interest of local self-government. How does that interest come about? By polling the citizens of Strategic Marketing or any other college center that has been tasked with asking citizens what they would like to be in that location. It's an abuse of this point and you need to change this point or accept an urgent amendment to the SRS. What is worth mentioning is that there are only two public debates in general, one on 27 February at the Faculty of Civil Engineering and the second on February 10th in Subotica, that none of these presentations, i.e. The public debate does not show the extent of the range between the market value of the land and the price of the land. I must, for the sake of the citizens, because of the public who is not familiar and because of the fact that you are persistently ignoring, read one piece of article 108, which enables tycoons, more specifically the Shakespearean Business Club, which is behind this law and which requires the return of its funds invested in the formation of the Government, to return this way. It is said this way: ''The persons who, in accordance with the previously applicable law governing planning and construction, have obtained the right to lease on over 50 years, on the other construction land not built in state property, can claim the conversion of lease rights into property rights on that land, by paying the remaining amount of the contracted lease in full, increased by 1% of the established market value of that land at the time of the conversion of the right. ''Citizens of Serbia, ask yourself or anyone in your environment - which product you can buy with 99% discount, 1% of the market value the minister's price approves of the purchase of persons who have rented over 50 years. They all rented at least 99 years. And what are you doing with these, Minister? You're giving away land that isn't even state-owned. Where's the restitution law? Where are the private property laws, where are the nationalisation laws, etc? No, because you couldn't carry them out, because you've done a huge privatisation since 2000. This privatisation was in your favor, because for that privatisation in the ruling majority, I don't say personally to you ministers, you've been taking a huge profit, and now that you have to pay back that money you don't have and you say it's going to come in some future period. What time will that come? You're saying that it's been since 2000, and now it's 2009. When will the restitution law come? You don't know it yourself, because you turned everything out of state property into private property because you took a commission. One percent of the established market price prescribed by the tax administration, not even by public auctioning or competition, is a clear signal for abuse, especially by local self-government, which has already sinned against this 2003 law. I'll remind you that we asked as an SRS to put this law out of effect in 2003, because it did not allow the legalisation of all objects evenly and because it sought a cash compensation for legalising people who had already paid through the infrastructure, introducing infrastructure where they were building buildings. If we also take that the tax administration assesses the value of the market value and if we take and that the difference between the market value is paid and not 1% as stated in the law, it is clear evidence that it is a matter of giving state property to the persons who have already privatised the companies. The companies are privatizing for land, for location. Take an example of the BIGZ, "Luke Belgrade", take the "Mouth", take whatever example you want. Take what foreign investors have invested, and why did they invest? Because you promised them what's on the agenda today. Now let me ask you something about the preservation of national state interests, since you are socially responsible government. What about Serbian property on KIM? What about the property purchased by the Ship's tycoons? What about the pumps in Serbia owned by the Shipara? What about trade chains that aren't owned by even Serbs? Let's leave Beck, Delta and all of these aside, what do we do with this property? How did they get that property? How are we going to compensate the people whose property it is? An average question is raised - why did you give state property to tycoons who had money to buy out 1% of the market value that the tax administration estimates? When we get that answer, I'll realize you're right. What there is no law on private property, and you put everything in private hands for life, not for 99 years, leaves the state without income. The state without income is a state without budget, and I said it works in the City Assembly, a state that doesn't have a socially responsible government, and you prove it by this law. All the other details will be discussed in detail. I don't want to take time with my colleagues. Minister, think carefully about what you've done with this law and think carefully that you won't get hurt by the Shakespeare Club of Business, in which the bright and the clothes of Delta and Beko will not go away.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24553	The word is Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24554	The Honorable President, the Honorable Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, one of the previous colleagues said that this law is a matter to which one dozen laws belong, and everything is forced into this law. We think at least two laws cover this matter, which is the law on city building land and the law on designing space and building buildings. We're not happy that all of this has been put into one law. The law is rather vague, confusing, and I believe it will be difficult to apply. Will the tycoons of this law be able to legalize their country? Probably, and it was probably one of the intensities of this law. Will this law continue to bring down construction activity and housing? I think so. Probably wasn't the intention of a legislator. If this law had the ambition to do a privatisation review, I'm afraid it's unrealistic ambition, and that's why I think this law will lead to a fall in construction activity. I don't think it's going to lead to an increased investment or an increase in foreign capital investment in this sector, because, after all, this law in tradition, let's say, the system we've been living in for decades still runs away from property like the devil from the cross. It is seen in the first article where property is not even mentioned as matter governed by this law. I think the fact state, whose register is empty, has found a way or imagines taking some money. All right, they're gonna take money from people who under the circumstances built without permission, but some big money I doubt they're gonna move in here. I think that the attempt to review privatisation will stop investment in construction and the country. Unfortunately, even when it comes to privatisation, as far as we can see, there are two arches. One has already been privatised, and there will be one who has bought to pay for the country's translation from the right to use in the right of property, but it is unclear what will happen to future privatisations. It's not clear here, and it's our objection to this law, that it's unclear, difficult to apply to those who know and know how to finish a job, and those who don't know and can't, and they don't have money and connections, they won't make it possible. That's why we think it was better to divide this matter into two laws. A much more serious public debate is being conducted, because this is one of the fundamental laws, and we certainly don't think it's fair or fair to adopt this law before it's passed a law on the restitution and return of property. I must, Mr. Minister, and your government to remind you that we are the last communist country in Europe that has no such law. Even Albania has passed it, and we think that without sincere application of four human rights laws, and one of the fundamental human rights is the right to property, which is the law on lustration, it is those who violated human rights of citizens, the law on rehabilitation, that is a law that restores civil rights to those to whom they have been violated, the law on restitution and the law on privatisation. These four laws are the basis of the transition of one country from totalitarian to the market system. Unfortunately, this law will be for some mothers and for some stepmothers. We certainly believe that illegally built buildings should be legalized by 2003, but it seems to us that each government is starting from the assumption that the world is starting from it, so we hear that now we are proposing that this time, when illegal construction was a crime, it is going into legalisation, which is not disputed from some social and human point of view. It is disputed to strengthen citizens' confidence in the rule of law, as tomorrow some other government will also imagine that the world is starting from it, so it may also legalise some future illegal facilities. Anyway, there's a lot of confusion about this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24555	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24556	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, firstly I have a principled objection about calling this session in general, at which there are 24 points of the agenda, and among those 24 points, a bar for 20 can be said to represent laws that are fundamental to certain areas. So we have media laws, culture, a set of criminal laws, a set of health laws, a set of laws in the field of education, and this set of laws, which are at the same session, half of July, all laid down in a maximum of two weeks of debate, where we will lay the foundations for many areas by adopting these laws. I think this way of convening the session is really extremely unserious, and I also think that the proposal was that in the second half of July, when most people are on vacations and when they pay attention, of course, when the attention of MPs is smaller, some things get through. It's just an impression that you can't get away from. Also, this set of laws in the area of construction represents very extensive matter, especially the law on the arrangement of space and construction, which has at least five-six laws within it. In addition, the social housing law, the environmental fund and the state diameter and the catastro. When all this comes down to a total debate of 10 hours, i.e. by parliamentary groups, specifically for our parliamentary group barely 40 minutes, then it can be clearly concluded that it was intended to avoid any more serious debate and more serious premonition of the shortcomings of certain legal solutions in such a brief debate. It's impossible to process this much material just one law for the intended time, let alone all these laws. In addition to the indisputable fact that there are certain positive developments in this law, let's say, the introduction of energy parameters as an obligation to plan, or design, and later on when building buildings, then, the obligation to adapt new objects to disabled persons, because I think it's a little too strict that only those buildings that have over 10 apartments have to adapt these housing facilities to disabled persons, but not those that have, for example. eight apartments, which I don't think makes any sense, because any building in a collective housing can potentially be needed by any person with disabilities, and in that sense it should have been dealt with differently. Also, the shift is that so far the right to use land will go to the right of property which will allow many owners of the facility to move through land ownership into many other arrangements, type of credit upgrades and similar things. What is not good, which I think opens up in this law many doubts and the possibility of manipulation, is the whole chapter that regulates city building land. Namely, city building land in public property can be alienated under the provisions of Article 96 - can be estranged or leased and by direct contract, for example, in the case of obtaining a building permit to the owner of an unlawfully built facility that has submitted the application within the time limits prescribed by this law, if the construction of that facility is in accordance with the conditions laid down in this law. In other words, you have the owners of the facilities that raised these facilities on state land, of course without a building permit, applied for legalization of the facility and then based on this provision of the law, that owner of the facility asks directly by contract to obtain land from the competent state authority, in this case probably from the municipality. I think it's an extremely unfortunate provision because we're going to have a mass of objects that will be legalized in this way, and that these objects are built on land that is not their property, or state property. What does that mean now? This means that the state will alienate huge assets and that directly by contract with those who own the facilities. It can only be seen what will happen in cases where, for example, investors, who often call tycoons, have entered the construction of buildings on state land at the moment of government, built huge housing buildings, now these housing buildings sell at enormous prices, and get land from the municipality by direct contract by saying -- here, let's say, 1,000 dinars per square. I think it opens up a dangerous chapter where many manipulations and abuses will occur. It is clear that city building land is one of the largest state resources of the economy, and in this case development resources, and in this sense the provisions of Article 105 and 106 respectively are interesting, where all public land used by the state authorities, i.e. municipalities and cities, will be transferred from right of use to property rights. The land so far used by the Serbian Army is also mentioned and will not be subject to the same deadlines, i.e. deadlines for renaming the land, translation into property rights will be valid for two years from the day of adoption of this law, unlike the rest of the land. It simply raises the logical question of why this land is subject to different deadlines and different arches. The fact is that throughout Serbia, in almost every major city where there are no armies today, or where military facilities and military barracks are not used, this land is in the best parts of the city and is currently the most interesting resource for construction. For example, in Nis there are four barracks that are not used, one about a hundred acres, the other about twenty, and the third and fourth about five, or eight acres. None of these barracks are used, and the land is located in the center of the city. The army does not give this land to the city, or to seek and trade with the city, asking for housing to be built and given in return for this building land. I don't think there's any country in the world where, for example, the military or the railways in another case, or some other legal entities got land on a gift from the state, and now those legal persons are trading with municipalities, or with the state, changing that land for some other facilities. I think that this is really inappropriate and that in this case it must stand in the way, because the city building land currently used by the Serbian Army can be a very large developmental resource for all municipalities and cities, especially in times of crisis, because this crisis is the most affected by municipalities, which, by reducing transfers, is the minor inflows into the budget. Other things will be spoken of by my fellow MPs, but I simply wanted to point to these anomalies in the law that may be a major source of abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24557	The word has an MP Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24558	The esteemed chairman, respected representatives of the ministry, with the exception of the minister because he is not currently in the hall, respected fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, counterpart Mica Rogovic, in his discussion, mainly spoke about the proposal for a law on regulation of space and construction, and I will keep my attention at the proposal for a law on social housing and, on behalf of the parliamentary group, forwards Serbia-SNS to make several criticisms and explain why we cannot support this bill in the day of voting. The social housing law should regulate the conditions for sustainable development of social housing, as well as the way to provide and use funds for the development of social housing, as well as other issues of importance for social housing. Unfortunately, I must conclude, as anyone who reads this bill, that the above mentioned is not the subject of this bill. As the first and most important precondition for the faster and more systematic and quality development of social housing in Serbia, the bill cited the establishment of a republican housing agency, and the bill also envisions the establishment of housing agencies at the level of units of local self-government. Now I'm already starting to sound like a parrot to myself, because every time we have a bill on the agenda, the bill proposes to form some of the many republican agencies. That is, for criticism, because so far we have 106 or 107 republican agencies, which require the allocation of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The promoter for the establishment of social housing agencies foresees the allocation of funds from the republican budget of 12.5 million dinars, but since this is the 106th and 107th agencies, as I have already said, we can expect you to find a proposal to form a republican agency that will control the work of all the agencies so far formed, and in order to satisfy party appetites, which are growing and bigger every day. From this bill, it is hard to believe that you are socially responsible and thus treat Serbian citizens. I say this because in a proposal with only 19 members, as many as five members speak about the establishment of a republican housing agency and municipal housing agencies. The Serbian Progressive Party has tabled 10 amendments to the bill in its desire to at least fix the bill a little bit. We believe that the implementation of a national social housing strategy, brought by the government on a proposal from the Ministry of Home Affairs, can be carried out by the Ministry in charge of housing, rather than by the establishment of an agency. As for the funds needed to finance social housing, you explain that the funds would come from foreign specialised sources, such as the Bank's credit for the Development of the Council of Europe. You also state in your explanation that one of the preconditions for the realisation of this loan is the establishment of an appropriate republican agency. Credits are granted for 10 to 15 years, but under what conditions? Can we take your word for it? I think the citizens of Serbia have been betrayed so many times and it is impossible for you to believe the word. As for housing agencies at the level of local self-government, we believe that each unit of local self-government has an authority that is responsible for housing, so that the local self-government strategy can carry out, that is, a directorate for the construction of a city or municipality, where we have a social work centre. Unlike the agency in the bill, a very smut is written which are the criteria for determining the order of the housing needs of a person who is without an apartment and who cannot provide an apartment under market conditions from the incomes they make. So, Article 10. You have laid down the criteria for setting out the list of order of the housing needs of a person without an apartment, and that is an exceptional thing to do. The criteria are the following: housing status, reception height, health status, disability, physical damage, number of household members. So, we cannot see in the law what are particularly vulnerable groups, which, unfortunately, need to be classified as priority users in Serbia, and do not forget that many people are socially endangered, because we are, unfortunately, not a rich society, but a society of wealthy individuals. The bill does not mention refugees, displaced faces, single mothers, and let us recall an unkind event that happened not long ago. It is a settlement settlement, including a large number of displaced Roma from Kosovo. Besides, how will we know, i.e. The bill does not say whether the law will protect single mothers who are socially at risk. Whether women such as the lady from Sremska Mitrovica, a widow with six children, who at one point slept on the street, would be protected because she was kicked out of the house because she was unable to pay the rent, and then the municipal authorities said that with family pensions and occasional incomes she was not a social case. We know well how many incomes there are in Serbia and that these incomes cannot support and educate any child, let alone six, without having a roof over your head. The SNS believes that a group of priority users should also include young couples, who cannot afford a roof over their heads because of their lack of work or low income. For these reasons, they find it more difficult to decide to expand the family, which is bad for us, because the Serbian hara of the white plague. At the end of my presentation, I would refer to the category of tenants, and I would convey their satisfaction with this bill, because, as they say, their problems do not live in the proposed document. They express satisfaction over the fact that the bill does not foresee the possibility for the tenant to buy the apartment out of the war and finally get home. It is true that the social housing sector has been unregulated so far, but the bill itself has been misconceived and we cannot therefore support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24559	Your MP group has two minutes left. The word is Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24560	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, one of the points that is united in this set of laws, refer to the environmental fund and I will say something about it from the SRS' point of view, and also something that should be the priority of the ministry in the future, and that is the correct use of funds to improve the environment, but it probably won't be anything. So far, experience has been bad, whether it's a fund at the level of the Republic or local funds. The funds are not negligible, and in most cases they have been used unintendedly, especially for pre-election purposes by parties in power, especially in local ones. However, the situation has changed lately, Serbia's budget has not been filled with a predicting pace, even said the projected revenues are at the level of disaster, and hence the funds allocated to the environmental fund. Therefore, there have been April amendments to the Environmental Protection Act, in particular Articles 84, 85 and 87, which relate to the level of compensation paid by contaminants, potential contaminants, legal entities exploiting mineral raw materials and the like. So, you needed those fees, those fees taken by the local self-government and transferred them to the state register, and the funds were really important. It will be even more important since environmental protection funds will be collected from potential polluters, then from polluters' fees or better said than environmental penalties, funds for the use of natural resources will now come into the budget of the Fund at the level of the Republic, instead of in the budget of the municipality funds, in a significantly more favourable percentage relationship than before, and to the harm of local self-government. Now to explain how and who will have these significant resources, who and who will report to, who will evaluate the fulfillment of the planned activities, who will control whom? Too bad Minister Dulic isn't here to answer any specific questions specifically. First, the government imagines forming the organs of the fund, which are the board of directors and directors. The board of directors is poor, which our people would say, and there are only four members, although it shouldn't be, plus the fifth member, and that's the chairman of the board of directors. This has not been the case so far, given that certain councils, committees and commissions have had 10, 15, 17 and 20 members in their respective assembly in a large number of laws so far. In this case, members of the Management Board shall be representatives of the Government. In accordance with Article 13(2), The government is putting them out of its ranks, regardless of the need for this redistribution to be done differently. First of all, I am referring to the satisfaction of the interests of local self-government, since you honestly robbed them with the latest amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. I also think of the economic, scientific and other structures that should be represented by one member on the Board of Directors, that these members be a total of five and that they choose each other as president, not as a function imposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, we are in a situation that in this case Minister Oliver Dulic, who is not there, will find himself in conflict of interest. Why? Under Article 13(2) of this bill, the chairman of the Environmental Protection Fund's Management Board is acting as the minister responsible for environmental affairs, which is Mr Dulic. So you will have four board members who are actually representatives of the government, who will be there as a decoration of the said minister. Now let us pay attention -- the minister, as chairman of the Fund's Management Board, brings an annual work programme, puts his signature on it, Oliver Dulic's signature, and sends it to the resolution minister to give consent. The ministry, headed by Minister Dulic, is studying its own annual work programme and giving consent, incredibly, to itself. Is there any logic in there that gives consent to its own work programme? In the same article, paragraph 6, paragraph 9, says that the report on the implementation of the work programme, means that Minister Dulic, for the past year, has been delivering the Fund to the ministry, which means that the minister is again sending himself a report on the implementation of the Fund's work programme, which he is likely to give an official assessment of, likely, by an excellent assessment. It's really inappropriate and it's a real classic example of conflict of interest. We see from the attached legal text that you will have at your disposal, especially as Minister and as Chairman of the Management Board, huge resources, as well as the possibility of directing funds towards specific projects that you define as a committee. It can already be imagined whose projects will be and who they will be intended for. I'll come back with these projects later when I talk about the case later. This is best seen in art. 16th century 2, where it is said - the amount of compensation set out in item 1 of point 6 of the article is prescribed by the Management Board of the Fund, so Minister Dulic, with the previous consent of the ministry, therefore, the consent of Minister Dulic. If this isn't a conflict of interest, then we don't know what it is. The SRS has submitted a number of amendments in its best interest to improve this law and to offer you a different solution, among other things and on this matter, in the hope that all of this will contribute to the preservation of the environment. One case that I will present to you shows how much the Serbian government, or your ministry, overlooked the interests of citizens in one part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, endangering the safety of the population that remains powerless, because you received, as you said, an order, a condition from the EU called – build a death facility in the centre of Serbia itself, otherwise there will be nothing from the promised 14m euros. So the lives of branches, their children, the future of Serbia will be sealed if you are still determined to turn your country into a wasteland of Europe. To move forward, the government of the Republic of Serbia intended to build a facility for the physical-chemical treatment of hazardous waste, with the help of Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac and Minister Oliver Dulic, near the town of Čupre, i.e. Paracino and Jagodina. The benevolent Suzie of the Ministry of Defence gave way to locations in the Catastrian municipality of Cupri, which were otherwise bombed in 1999, a area of 28 hectares, for that purpose. That is why Minister Dulic addresses the local self-government in Turkey with a letter of intent sent on 14 January 2009, announcing the implementation of this dangerous project. What is strange is the fact that this document was sent to the public in Ćupriya remained hidden from the public for three and a half months, so that he would magically rise to the council in a call for an extraordinary session on Friday (April 24th) for a session that was scheduled to take place on Monday (April 27th). But citizens organised for such a short time and blocked the entire building of the Assembly of the Municipality, along with local officials and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the session failed, and those initiators of the construction of this facility in Turkey were just DS and G17 plus committees. The location chosen is absolutely unacceptable from the point of view of safety for the health of the population, as well as possible contamination of land, plant and animal life, underground and surface waters etc. The facility would be located one and a half kilometers from the town of Čupre, seven kilometers from the town of Paracina, 10 kilometers from Jagodina, 300 meters from the settlement Dobričevo, 800 meters from the settlement of Paljana and Ivankovac, a mile from the village of Supska, three kilometers from the village of Stubica and Batinac, 200 meters from the memorial of the Ivankova Battle complex from 1805, at six kilometers from the Ravanica monastery, where the musts of the Holy Prince Lazara rest, where Senja village is located. Also, the facility would be located in the middle of the agricultural good Dobrichevo, about 750 hectares. Next to it are Rubin’s vineyards of several hundred hectares. Worse still, in the immediate vicinity there are facilities of the city water supply pipeline Čuprije. The Great Morava flows only two kilometers, and the groundwaters are three metres away. Why did I list these locations? Your Assistant Minister, Mr Aleksandar Vesic, said on 16 February 2009 in news for "News" – according to EU standards, the possible location cannot be on the territory of protected economic goods, near the settlement and must have access to sewers. What do you mean, close to the settlement, 20 meters, 30 or five kilometers? You don't have a majority in the Assembly of the Municipality of Cupri, fortunately. I ask you, will you, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, respect the will of the councilors in SO Ćupri, who, for you and for your idea, will be negative or will you apply the force of the regulation, and you will face the citizens? If by any chance the EU had the conditions of building a facility in the middle of Vojvodina, it is now not the personal minister here to ask him personally, would Mr. Minister allow it to be done? Probably not, because in 2003, the Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina decided to ban the construction of this facility on its territory. So show that principle in this situation, instead of being discriminatory about local self-government in Serbia. If the AP Vojvodina Assembly can ban construction, then so can gurupria, and Shabac, Kragujevac, Crna Trava and any self-government in Serbia. I hope you agree with my findings. Otherwise, every citizen has the right to accuse the state of dictatorial and discriminatory behaviour on the basis of this issue. The decision of the AP Vojvodina Assembly was also discussed by former Minister Angelka Mihajlov, Aleksandar Popovic, Mr Nikcevic, etc. It's all on official websites. On this occasion, I would like to inform you that the way the entire project has been brought by the government and local self-government in the country, with its boast and ignoring the public, has led to an action to ban the construction of this facility of death in Ćupria. The response is huge and 10,000 signatures have already been collected. To illustrate, elections in this city usually result from 15,000 to 18,000 people. The petition goes on, because the percentage of rejection is negligible. You will officially receive these signatures here in the Assembly, I will hand them over to the Minister himself when he is present, to make sure that the citizens have made a broad front against you. The petition also spread to the municipality of Paracin, and these days it will also go to the municipality of Desotovac, primarily because of what the minister said at a session of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment on 21 April, where he mentioned the Pasuljan meadows, probably not knowing that the real locations are right next to Cupre, not in the Pasuljan meadows. Now let me quote to you what Minister Dulic said at the Committee session. "The minister added that the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning entered into negotiations with the Ministry of Defence on land entry into the Pasuljanska Livada military complex for this project and because the territory has a lower concentration of population population population. In addition, the construction of such a centre on the territory of the municipality of Cupri will contribute to a faster economic development of the municipality. '"Let me just say, the Beans meadows are located in the territory of the Despotovac municipality. So one mistake and the error of Minister Dulic. In your letter of intent of January 14th from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you mention the storage of remains after treatment of hazardous waste. However, the projected capacity of the plant is 43,000 tons of hazardous waste, how many of these remains will be after treatment? Where will you put thousands and thousands of tons of these remains? Did, uh, Mr. Minister arrive to you, that's why you had the Besuljan meadows on your mind? To inform the citizens of Serbia and the MPs, and the minister probably knows that, the Pasuljan meadows belong to the monastery forests of the Ravenica monastery. The 1,462 hectares of Prince Lazar donated the Ravanica monastery to the Chittorian Charter of 1381, when the construction of the monastery was completed. In these words, Prince Lazar concluded thectorial charter: "This is my little gift to the home of the purification queen of our Mother, and I pray to everyone whom God chooses to rule after me not to hurt this little contribution of mine, but even to confirm it." Next text the minister can read for himself, I won't read for him. You now wish to store dangerous waste, more specifically products of treatment, in the southern House, on the monastery land. By the way, that's why you're doing the Ravenic monastery, and you're not bringing those woods back. The Restitution Act required you to do so, but you didn't. Almost in the entire Branic diocese you did it, only here you didn't do it. There are two reasons. The first is that there is a military polygon now and then used, but on which members of the NATO duck have thrown around. Another reason is that you will need these uninhabited spaces to store all kinds of dangerous waste and thus defile already the degraded, burned, destroyed monastery forest and monastery land. Serbia's military is using the aforementioned leased land because it was taken from the Public Enterprise "Serbishum". If you think you're building something in that location, in terms of building a warehouse or a facility, I'll quote you article 76. Forest law. In Article 76, the last position, it reads: "The forest land in state and social property leased cannot be used for construction." So you out there under this law won't be able to make anything. In the end, you owe an explanation - what did you mean by the term in that draft project of yours, where the cement factory and the Dobretchev facility are mentioned? What is the role of the traffic connection with the cement factory in Popovac, a special traffic station located about eight kilometers away, although there are already two roads with built roads? Is it the removal from the public's eyes of future transport convoys of everything and everything, which would, in part, end in the plant and the other in high cement furnaces? Explain to the public. In Pomoravlje, the public is afraid for the lives of their children, for their future. In the end, none of your funds after that can fix what you can do with this move.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24561	The word is from Ambassador Miroslav Petkovic. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24562	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS believes that a member of the 87th Rules of Procedure has been injured about the work of the National Assembly. In fact, we've been discussing these extremely delicate bill proposals for over an hour without the minister's presence. It is the draft legislation that, if voted at the National Assembly session, can in practice cause far-reaching negative consequences, and I especially note this given the rather alarming facts and information my colleague Radisa Ilic has made, which concerns the drastic violation of environmental rules in this part of Serbia from which he comes. I think that, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you were obliged to interrupt the session until the minister showed up. It is only the minister who has the right to enter the controversy on behalf of the Government, i.e. to communicate with the MPs and any debate in the National Assembly, not only on these draft laws, but on any other debate the authorised minister does not attend, absolutely does not mean anything, because there is no authorised representative of the Government who can answer the questions of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24563	There's a transmission, and the minister's here. When the minister wasn't here, they were his associates. For a while, he just left the gym and came back. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Petkovic Miroslav. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24564	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President of the Assembly, you have injured Article 27, not to list other members, but your obligation was to allow the Assembly to work normally. The normal work of the Assembly implies that when the law is on the agenda, whoever proposed the law will be present. I'm sure Mr. Dulic would never accept, even though he's a doctor, that, say, replace a cardio-surgeon or a neuro-surgeon, because he knows what he can do in his field and, aware of the fact that any move in these authorities would directly endanger the life of a patient, he wouldn't do it. He has agreed to be a Minister for Environment and Spatial Planning, it can be overcome, but the minimum required by the minister is to be present at a time when this law is being discussed, especially given the facts that say how devastating these laws can be, when it comes to Serbian citizens, and I think it would be useful for the minister to hear all those things that the MPs intended to bring out. However, it is obvious that your perception of the congregation is in a way that deeply offends the dignity of the Assembly and MPs, because you only need the Assembly to legalise your political goal of making certain laws, whether they are good or not, and in the vast majority they are not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24565	Time. It's been two minutes. Thank you. There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and on the other hand, you have injured Article 100, paragraph 2, the MP cannot point to a breach in the procedure of the President of the National Assembly, or the chairman, of which it has already been indicated. I won't tell you the measure now, but I warn you, I don't even give you a warning, just ask you to really take care of the Rules of Procedure. The MP of your group has already spoken about it. You have no word, Mr. Todorovic. The word is Mr Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24566	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, let's not lie, this whole debate is being conducted precisely because of the problems we've seen. You are in a hurry to complete this law before 6:00, which is why they withdrew from the list of speakers from the ruling coalition to discuss an important package of laws proposed by the Ministry of Health after 1800 hours without television transmission. But this is not the first time that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been violated, so the citizens of Serbia have already become accustomed to watching a delayed session of the Assembly in the night. Mr. Dulic said in his presentation that he would like to hear some examples we can point out to him. I'm happy to read one in a series of examples, and I believe, Mr. Dulic, that you are well aware of these problems and that someone must have earned a hundred years of loneliness because of this sort of thing. An example of controversial privatisation, based on non-compliance with the law, abuse of urban planning and identification or lack of development priorities, is Luka Belgrade. This port is unique for many things: first - it is the last to reach sea-river ships; second - it has the appropriate manipulative capacity; third - it has the possibility of multiple capacity increases; fourth - it is located at the intersection of international corridors 10 and 7 with international waterways Sava and Tis; fifth - located close to the base station in Makisha and two major technical performance airports "Nikola Tesla" and "Batajnica". All of this makes the port of Belgrade more competitive than other ports all the way down to Constanta and any transfer of the port downstream would lead to a significant reduction in competitiveness, while moving to the other coast of the Danube and detaching from existing infrastructure would completely destroy the competitiveness of the port. Its current position makes "Luku Belgrade" a basic economic entity and an enker of Belgrade's future development. The main activity is the manipulation of containers, with a capacity that has now fallen from 13 to 15 thousand after privatisation to about 10,000 containers a year. When I mean manipulation, you know what kind of manipulation I mean, not the one someone would think of. The size of the port, the length of the berths and the gauze which enables the hand-holding of the sea-river ship and barges, along with the necessary technical and technological rehabilitation, can increase the port's capacity by at least 30 times, to a minimum of 300,000 containers per year. The idea of our politicians to become a regional service centre, the most mentioned banking, is only possible if a significant commodity flow is going through a regional centre, or through the city. Apart from the port, no other activity in Belgrade's territory can provide an adequate commodity flow that would stimulate any accompanying service activity. Despite all the comparative advantages and even the current size of business, the owner of the "Luke Belgrade" decides to build a business and housing complex in that place. Legally, the owner's right implies that he does what he wants with his firm, but the government's obligation is to protect the interests of its citizens, first from selling a strategic economic operator to an unconscious buyer, then finally eliminating the same strategic entity, and at the expense of the state, the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia, who will pay for it. For example, it should be stated that there are now between two and three million square meters of commercial space in central Belgrade, some 250,000 square metres of ground floor space. Will the value of that commercial space and the revenue from its exploitation fall when a new 800 thousand square meters in the port appears on the market? Will the owners of this unsuspecting area sue the state and demand compensation based on lost profits, but also capital loss for the dilettant planning of the city's development that led to this? Who will be responsible for reducing budget revenues based on property tax and capital gains tax, if that property loses part of the current value and capital gains decreases? In spite of all, the city administration is making a decision to initiate the procedure for the change of the general urban plan, adopted in 2003, with a duration of up to 2021, which would, among other things, require the removal of the port and set a new location for the port, and based on a competitive solution, which was made for the needs of the "Luke Belgrade" company. Not taking into account and not respecting economic and infrastructure parameters, i.e. state interests and citizens' interests, the city's administration has complied with capital requirements, which by definition pursues only profit, not taking into account the permanent damage that will be done to the public sector and to all citizens of our country. However, as a result of the planning documentation, the port in Belgrade is foreseen at a location where the company "Luka Belgrade" now exists, with the spacious plan of the Republic of Serbia, the Belgrade City's General Urban Plan adopted in 2003 and the Belgrade Regional Plan adopted in 2004. All these plans are higher order than a detailed urban or regulatory plan. Changes to the lower order plans are possible only if they are in agreement with the higher order plans. Possible changes can be initiated by the authorities of the city's or republic's administration, and in no case can potential investors through an internal competition for urban solution, which takes into account only the demands of the same investor, which is not only the "Luke Belgrade" but also almost all major ventures in Belgrade in the last eight years. As an example, I quote "The Palace of Usce", Autocommand, Shipyard, Stari mlin, "Partizanka" etc. The abuse of competition by the investor leads to the investor's rule leading to a more favourable position, eliminating competition and harming citizens. The most serious issue regarding "Luka Belgrade" is about changing the right to use construction land. In Serbia, the state is the only owner of construction land, regardless of whether it is acquired by its means or nationalisation. The same state has the right only to enter into the use of building land, exclusively related to urbanism established for the purpose of a building built on that land and no user has the right to property over assigned building land. This means that any change in the purpose of using construction land by users practically means that land in a legally prescribed procedure must be granted to the most favourable bidder, which is bound to pay compensation for the convenience of the location, to bring the location to a new purpose, to the costs of the organisation of the terrain, primary and secondary infrastructures. Ownership of a company that at the time of privatisation had the right to use land, for example for industrial purposes, is not the basis for automatic, especially free, land use rights for the purpose of building business and housing facilities. In the event that the city's decision on the purpose of the land on which the company "Luka Belgrade" is operating is changed from industrial to residential, this means that the company "Luka Belgrade" should move from that location, because it would not have an automatic right to use. If the new purpose of building land is established, the State is obliged to apply the land through the prescribed procedure to the use of the most favourable bidder. The decision of the Constitutional Court of 2005 lays down that the provisions of Article 1 Decisions amending the Building Land Decision, which was published in "The Official Journal of the City of Belgrade" No. 18/2003, not in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and the explanation states: "It comes from those constitutional and legal provisions (President: Time. Here, I'm finishing up... . the state-owned means of issuing building land for lease, as a rule, by public tendering, i.e. by collecting offers by public advertising. “ Mr. Minister, this example clearly shows that whoever has the money, who owns a specific land, can do with it whatever he wants, buy it, tear it down, move it. I think it's embarrassing, and we can't let that happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24567	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24568	Within two minutes, I'll point out what I don't think is clearly highlighted enough as a lack of this law. I think the basic lack of this law and chapter of spatial and urban planning is just an undefined legal deadline within which to implement adopted planning documents. I think it was precisely the lack of this provision that led to a large number of adopted planning documents brought in earlier periods, and based on then applicable laws, never being implemented in their largest part or replaced by a new one. This observation refers in particular to detailed regulation plans, according to which in most cases, and which is our basic problem, land does not bring about the intended purpose, locations at which the construction is intended are either empty or depleted, spent objects that are not in operation. It's getting more and more common, whether because of the crisis or for other reasons, it doesn't matter, the phenomenon that we have in cities and centres and the most busy parts of the city started, and the unfinished construction. It's been going on for years. These phenomena cause great damage, pose a problem for the safety of youth and citizens, as they gather factors of various negative phenomena. This leads the state to material losses and these are losses both for investors and for a country that does not collect income from tax on built-up buildings. I think that the adoption of these plans should really speed up construction, and if anything in this law should be clearly defined...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24569	It's been two minutes. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24570	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable citizens of Serbia, must surprise us with the speed with which the Proposer came out with the Proposal for a Law on Planning of Space and to worry us, because what was proposed by the Proposer is incomplete, vague, confusing and certainly not going to solve the issue of urban chaos in space. When I say urban chaos, I use Minister Dulic's termology which, on several occasions, came out with this word, a sentence, and showed enormous problems that we as a society have in space. What's important from the aspect of the space we have to start from is an analysis that the state authorities, the superlative ministry and the government must have ahead of them. Often, the minister came out with data that we have over a million illegally built objects of a different type, and individual housing buildings, collective buildings, business premises, production-industry, industrial buildings and all other types of objects that do not have adequate building permits, nor for use. What is important to stress is that especially after 5 October, governments quickly entered the legalisation and resolution process of the issues of accumulated problems in space, and that haste, that speed has made it impossible to really solve problems and find adequate solutions for each object and for space in general. Why do we have urban chaos? We have urban chaos because the state has not prepared adequate spatial-planned documentation, nor has it financed, nor has it provided sufficient financial resources to produce spatial-planned documentation. The Republic at its level, the province at its levels, local self-government at its level. It's particularly problematic at the level of the Republic. Why? Because the plans of the higher order are being adopted, on the basis of which the plans of the lower order are later made, to the local self-government. If we start from the facts we face in everyday life, we see that local self-government has not solved the huge problems in space, which did not bring this space-planned documentation primarily because it did not have enough financial resources. Will she have it in the future? No, we have to be aware of that. Why? Because the legalisation process that has been in motion on several occasions is not only this law since 2003, but it was in 1998, when the Law on the Legalisation of Housing Institutions was passed, he didn't solve anything in the space either. Will local self-government have enough resources in these conditions to produce spatial-planned documentation and comply with the deadlines set by this law? It will not be certain, among other things, because you do not allocate the transfer funds in those amounts provided for in the 2009 budget provisions, as well as the 2009 budget rebalance. Only 20% to 25% of what is outlined in the budget and the rebalancing. Furthermore, when we talk about a million illegally built objects, the state authorities are aproximatingly going out with this data, we don't know how real there are built or not built objects. Why? Who cares who's built it, who's not built the facility. We built consciousness in the people that could be different, beyond the law. That's really bad. That's what you need to worry about. Come out with large sentences, statements – after this law we have solved everything. We haven't solved anything. That's what we see after the law I'm talking about, from 1998, the 2003 law, and this law is not going to solve anything either. The basic assumptions for regulating this chaos in space are in this: we do not have the opportunity to finance spatial-planning documentation, we do not have a prepared state operation that can accept and resolve the question of millions of objects that are in the process, we do not have that administration that can rapidly solve this, we do not have adequate state control. Our inspection, especially urban and construction inspections, doesn't do their job or other inspections. The country as a whole doesn't work. Penalty policy, impeccable prison sentences, who does that commit? No one. Did any of the builders answer and go to jail for working without a building permit? Very little. Well, then what we're worth prescribing prison sentences, huge fines for business crimes, violations, etc. when in practice we have not adequately addressed the issue of social control, as well as control through the procedure to be carried out by the state authorities. In 2003, when then Minister Šumarac went public with the bill, he announced a general collapse of illegally built buildings, an accelerated collapse, causing fear among lawless builders, and many hoped that after the adoption of the Law on Planning and Construction, the process would be accelerated, full, cheap legalisation, as the minister announced, and that the whole process would be completed within two years. Unfortunately, only 5% of illegally built buildings are legalized in the meantime. Huge state resources have been spent. According to data provided by the Ministry of Finance 2004/2005. For the media alone, three-and-a-half million euros have been allocated to the propaganda over the legalisation of this law. Huge means, no effect. A similar situation will be with this law. Why? Basically what we need to do, what the proposer didn't do, what the state didn't do, what the government didn't do, is make up a national space strategy. It must provide a clear picture of all our problems and all our solutions. You can't enter this area individually, partially. It cannot be resolved by this law on property, especially not public property. Without the law on restitution, denationalisation, amendments to the Property Act, the Law on Public Property and the Special Law, the lex specialization of legalization cannot be solved, be assured of that. The practice of it tells us best. In Belgrade, we have about 400,000 buildings built, and in Novi Sad, where I come from, we have over 50.00 illegally built buildings. There was an informal group in Novi Sad during 2003 and 2004 dealing with this problem. Now it is done by one Association of Citizens, whose head is Slobodan Vlaisavljevic, a fighter against illegally built buildings, and has an illegally built facility, and I am one of those who built private land, but without building permit and building approval. I talked to him, and I asked for his opinion on this bill, because he's a known fighter for obtaining building permits, speeding up procedures and comprehensive legalization, he told me that this law has nothing to do with it. It's a practice. But what's it worth to you? Practically, what the public debate was supposed to show, which are the shortcomings of the law, which are gaps that need to be filled out, the public debate said. The public debate was accelerated. This procedure has been accelerated and the very bill we are discussing today has been brought forward by a speedy procedure, and all the problems that have accumulated for years will not surely be solved by these laws. According to the SRS' position and opinion, this law should be withdrawn. Surely, in practical implementation, they will not achieve those objectives and tasks set before them. As far as spatial-planned documentation is concerned, the state must allocate adequate resources, since without it there is no adoption of spatial-planned documentation. In particular, this will be problematic in small local self-governments, which have countless illegally built objects, which do not have spatial-planned documentation and do not have the opportunity to provide adequate means to produce these documents. Legalisation must be fast, it must be complete, it must be comprehensive, to resolve the issue of all objects, it must be cheap, it must be cheap in the sense that it is not the flexibility of cities and municipalities, that through this kind of legalisation it is now making certain gains and entering certain new projections of development, etc. Our citizen who built the buildings has no opportunity at this time to provide large funds for those amounts of compensation for the construction land, which are predicted by certain municipalities in the present period. On behalf of the government of Republika Srpska in exile, on behalf of numerous Krajisnik associations, on behalf of numerous refugees and internally displaced persons, I call on the Ministry and the Government to speed up the process, but not through this law. You need to bring lex specialis, legalization law. Without him, there's no legalizing problem. Be assured of that. Refugees and internally displaced persons mainly worked on parcels where they could not get a building permit, not because they did not want to, but because municipalities and cities did not provide legal plots for construction. Finally, for the SRS, this law is incomplete, it is confusing, it will not accomplish everything the promoter has imagined.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24571	Mrs. Veronica Radeta. You've got 23 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24572	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a long-standing experience in the application of property-law regulations, construction, housing and regulations that regulate the work of catasters and land books, gives me the right to tell you, Mr. Minister, that you have proposed very bad, imprecise, unspeakable and deficient, I would say, unfinished drafts of the law. I'm going to say something in general first, first of all, by handling what you said here today and what you've been saying in the media these days, and then, as long as that time allows, I'm going to comment on the individual laws, that is, members of the bill of these laws. I don't think you've paid enough attention, and you haven't taken care of Article 86. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of the forms of property, and certainly any bill that is not absolutely in line with the Constitution should not be found before the MPs, let alone eventually be adopted. There was no public debate on these proposals. You'll probably say that, there was a meeting in Subotica, a meeting seems to me in Belgrade, but what you call a public debate is all just not a public debate. I remind you that you have agreed with the chairman of the board to hold a meeting, to hold a meeting with the resolution committee in parliament as long as the law was in the draft. That was about ten days before the bill came out. That meeting has been postponed. So you realized, in fact, that you did not want to talk to the MPs before the bill came to parliament, that is, when you already agreed on the parliamentary majority and then, about you, you don't care what the MPs say as their comment on your proposals. This isn't personal. This applies to all ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Today we are fortunate that we are not discussing these laws in illegality, since it has already become a practice that this parliament, here's the next set of laws to be debated in illegality, will be some delayed transposition perhaps after midnight, will end at about five or six hours and then Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, who smiles warmly now, says the public of the work is provided. It is not, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, and it is terrible what you are doing with parliament, especially in this area where you have not allowed Serbian citizens to hear or discuss a set of criminal laws or information law, so here is neither this next set of laws. That's not good, but you've defined yourself here, unfortunately, there's nothing we can do. Mr. Dulic, if you had the sincere intention to discuss these suggestions with the MPs, then you would have acted like one. First of all, I find it amazing that today, after those presentations of the proposing representatives, you did not have the need to comment, and there were various opinions, various ideas, proposals, etc. You've obviously decided today to defend yourself with silence and you have no intention of communicating with the MPs. We're used to different Oliver Dulic, but I guess circumstances change people, so now what do we do? But that's why you're more and more present in the media these days by thanking these laws, especially a little mention of the law on state diameter and catastro. Do you think the law isn't important enough or do you think the citizens aren't interested? Neither is true, but therefore boast of legalization, boast of some accelerated, simplified legalization process. Mr. Dulic, I will now, primarily because of the citizens of Serbia, correctly explain that this law, in ideal conditions, at least when it comes to legalisation, will not apply in at least two years. So you didn't actually plan on proposing today in this law the legalization part. Your associates, I think the Secretary of State was concerned, on one of the shows a beautiful woman said -- we still don't have a complete solution to the legalization process, we'll only go to this law in the spatial planning section, and legalization when we're still consulting with the profession to propose in a special law. That was four or five days before we received, or before the government adopted this proposal, because you changed your mind to scrutinize a fifth of legalization laws just to distract the public from Article 106. A proposal for this law, which we will also talk about, because it has already started to comment quite publicly on Article 106. A bill of this law. You say, yesterday I think, on one show, it's an amazing thing, but it's true since October 5th, how do you DOS apply legal regulations. You say you have unlimited confidence in Dragan Gilas, that you believe that he will stop lawless construction, tycoon yes, in Belgrade and that that is why you will allow all the facilities to be legalised in Belgrade. You're still saying, with the other presidents of the municipalities, I'll see who gives me the confidence that they're able to stop the illegal construction and where I figure that out, I'll allow legalization. Mr. Dulic, the application of some regulation does not depend and must not depend on the minister, and must not depend on the president of the municipality of application, the rules must be such that they are all equal before the law and that the law is the same for all. I've been teaching you that since you were president of Parliament, and I thought you remembered, but you seem to have forgotten. You've been corrupted by this government, Mr. Dulic, a lot. What are the basic problems, what are the basic shortcomings of these proposals? You're saying this law will produce a reduction of plans and that it will speed up the legalisation process. You predicted, Mr. Dulic, that the spatial plans in the city of Belgrade, the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, were brought to local self-government within 18 months, and that is an optimal deadline, given that you did nothing, nor did your predecessors, ministers from this area, and you had a legal basis to work before 2003, and you had a legal basis for this so-called. democratic laws. You remember Dragoslav Šumarac, you remember the 2003 law, so the public invites Serbian citizens that everyone who has illegal facilities, that they only register in their municipalities to someone, it seems, to me, was 15 November of that year and that they do not have to apply any of the documentation, only have to submit proof of the payment of administrative fees for the local level and for the republican level. What you're doing is similar. You say that people who have already filed, investors who have already filed legalisation requests that they do not have to file again, but that within 30 days from the day they receive notice that they are missing some document, that the document must be delivered, and if they do not do so within 30 days, that the competent authority will reject their legalisation request. Are you aware, Mr. Dulic, how many people at this point are unable to pay for project building, project documentation? Ma'am, whether or not the project needs to be done, nobody knows at this point because you wrote a technical report on the condition of the facility in law. What is it, does anyone know? I would like to, I expect, Mr. Dulic, after my statement that you will explain what it is, not because of me, but because of the citizens of Serbia, to know what this technical report on the state of the facility is. This is the law on legalisation, so I call it coloquial, primarily because of the citizens of Serbia, because they are most interested in it because of the definition of the SRS. We are well based our local campaigns on firm promises that we will do everything possible to legalize the maximum number of objects that were built without a building permit. We never call it illegal objects, because 90% of the people who built such buildings are not responsible for having to build without a building permit. It is responsible for the state because there is no spatial plan, because there are no detailed regulation plans and because unfortunately, there will not exist for at least the next two years, because you have now prescribed it by law. Furthermore, in these laws, you have completely or in good faith disabled judicial protection. Is it logical for you, Mr. Minister, that someone in some municipality estimates that the investor does not meet the conditions of the house in which he lives with his family, that he has been building a roof over his head, maybe 15 years apart from his mouth, and that someone estimates that he does not meet the conditions, because maybe he should have given him 100 euros, and he didn't have to give it to him. Of course, I don't think all officials are corrupt, but unfortunately corruption is something that adorns, first of all, the government of the Republic of Serbia, and then perhaps analoguely, because of that head fish, it smells, and the other state organs. You're saying in the law that someone whose request is denied can file a complaint with the Ministry. The solution of the ministry is finally, immediately delivered to the competent inspection and the competent inspector urgently brings a solution to the demolition and approaches the collapse of the facility. Doesn't it seem to you that it's too much of a stake not to let citizens have the right to go to court protection in this procedure, because if you knock down someone's house they live in, you're seriously questioning his family, Mr. Minister, in every way. In terms of existence, you know what happens when it collapses, that people are willing to burn themselves and family, kill themselves, first of all. You said today during the debate that objects that were built by 13 May 2003 and those that were after that date must differ. You say the one who built it after 13 May 2003 committed a crime. Mr. Minister, let your lawyers at the Ministry teach you that, let's say, if someone was building a facility on July 19th, 2003, that you committed a felony today because you said that someone was committing a felony, since there was an absolute statute of limitations, given that for this crime, the sentence of three years was provided for. Not much with these bomb stories, but talk about whether you really have the willingness to help the citizens of Serbia. You say in some papers two or three days ago, it's out of the question that we're tearing down houses because someone doesn't have the money to pay for legalization. This isn't true, because this is not what the law says. The law says, and it's good that you lifted those Shumarce's double permits, one permit with an idea project, and another permit with the main project, in the meantime a contract with the directorate is concluded, but it's not good that you've conditioned that you sign this contract and start paying the director's fee. Local self-government is scheduled to determine compensation for the legalisation of these facilities. We in the SRS don't think that's good. We think it has to go from the level of the Ministry. The truth is that local self-government knows the situation on the ground better than it can be known in Belgrade. In order to avoid abuses and to avoid all citizens in the same situation, it would have to be done this way. You must also take care of the economic situation today in the state of Serbia. Imagine how many objects will be destroyed because people won't be able because they don't get paid, they're out of work, you won't give them, you'll refuse their request for permission, because they can't close the contract, or they can't, but they can't pay the wars. It's like they didn't even close the deal. The contract to conclude is a condition to pay for a first war that is not equal to all other wars, but is significantly greater. It represents about one quarter of the total amount to be paid. I don't know if you know all this information, Mr. Dulic, but I must point out that you've never had the will to do anything on this subject before, and I'm going to mention large settlements in the territory of the municipality of Zemun: Busia, Blue Horizont, Thunder. I don't know if you've been, say, in the Buses and the Blue Horizon and if you've seen such planned settlements in Serbia. Smile, smile, I'm proud to be part of the team that formed these settlements, of course, led by Dr Vojislav Seselj. He's proud of his work and has something to be proud of. The problem is that these settlements were building radicals, and that's why the city of Belgrade doesn't bring in eight years, it doesn't occur to them to bring in regulation plans, and you could bring them in, you didn't have to wait for a spatial plan, as you are now predicting. What else do you terriblely predict in these laws? I'm sorry I can't analyze a member per member, but of course we will when we talk about the details. You predict that it will be the subject of destruction of all objects that do not fit into these future spatial plans and regulation plans. That's how you bring under suspicion and objects built with permission. You do not want to make a radical cut in this area, and that radical cut, I would like the ministers to really listen to me, would be one possible if you were in application, transitional and final provisions or in that last article – the law is in effect on the eighth day of the day of publication, and it will apply, so that you have set a period of two years that is optimal. And in the meantime, in the previous members, you have obliged this new cadastre, or the existing cadastre, to carry out one aircraft, to definitely establish every facility and facility built on the territory of the Serbian state. That is the only way you could stop the illegal construction, and then the competent services would push back and forth day and night to work like we did in the Assembly, to make a spatial plan as quickly as possible, to make plans for regulation, and then as a state, you have the right to tell your citizen – from today on, there is no lawless construction. How are you going to say that now? We do not advocate illegal construction, on the contrary, we Serbian radicals advocate maximum legality in every segment of society in the country of Serbia, but how will you explain to the man who lives with his parents in the family home, where part of that plot is a building plot, where that house is built, and in the follow-up plot in the cataster or in the land book he writes a garden, and the re-purpose is not done and cannot be done until the plans of detailed regulation are brought in, and that man or that family must live three generations in the same house, and have the possibility, have a plot, have the means, can build a house, but it will still be illegal because the state does not create conditions for legal construction. Of course, there is also much to say about the cadaster law, but unfortunately the time reserved for our parliamentary group is already near the end. Here, there's two more minutes. It's a good intention for you to have all the data, a personal map of one immovableity, as I would say, in one place. We in the SRS think that the place could have been a land book, or garter, and that the catastre could still do the job of a diameter, as it has done so far. It's not a big mistake for you to unite it in the catastrophe. Among other things, you could have protected those 600 judges that Mrs. Malovic was going to fire, could have been land-registered judges, because they were trained, but well, that's your choice. I'm just going to mention article 56 here, and I hope you're going to comment on that right now, it's about the state's border crossing. If you accept the SRS amendment, we'll be confident that you accidentally made this slip. What's this about? You did not predict how you would measure Serbia's state border between Macedonia, Montenegro and Albania. You had to, and we proposed to you by amendment how to do that – if you accept the amendment, we will count on your intentions being honorable and that it is only the president's mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24573	The word is Mr. Markicevic, although later he signed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24574	Your Honor, if I called back later, I'm not too late, am I? Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission, today I listened to many colleagues from the opposition and positions in the good part of the discussion at today's session, I also listened to the minister, and I think that in the most part of our discussion, they were quite professional. I would take advantage of the opportunity for a few issues in the form of dialogue, if Mr. Minister agrees, to clarify issues that I believe a large number of Serbian citizens are interested in. The very idea of legalizing objects, I mean mostly residential buildings, houses, seems to me for my 52-year-old life that's been going on for 30 years. In the freshest memory... Please make it possible, calm them down a little, I can't hear anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24575	Gentlemen, please pay attention to the speaker and allow him to speak uninterruptedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24576	I don't think I'm going to say that he's the most notorious, but most transparent, not to say that there was a transparent law on legalization since 2003. In some cases, the minister's assistant was once the head of urbanism in the city I came from. I've been giving her some advice, and since I've met with many citizens who have been trying to solve this issue for years. Of course, legalization of buildings, primarily residential ones, includes certain obligations towards the city, the municipality, the state, and certain privileges. I had a proposal, Mr. Minister, that I once thought to you, as strange as it may seem to some people here -- give people that 500 euros, I'm talking about individual housing, not business facilities, the biggest code to zero euros, and legalize everything that can be legalized, unless, of course, it's on some infrastructure routes, on pipelines and roads. Mr. Minister, I believe you have energy, but I'm worried about those you're sitting with in the government and in this infrastructure council, because I see you there often on television, I hope and believe in your energy that you're going to end this, and there's no reason not to accept amendments that this legalization applies to objects built until the day of the law's entry into force. I don't know why the house could be legalized if we tied it to the last date on May 12th, May 13, or May 14th? What difference does that make? It's clear to me that one day it has to break the line. But the question always arises, since you are here, I must admit, whether I like it or not, in the election campaign, I don't think you do, but representatives of the current ruling coalition have often mentioned the expression of justice, social justice. A Serb can endure anything, but he is sensitive to justice and injustice. So if we've warned here, and the media, so much Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic why he doesn't respect one law, which should be the first to respect and promote, about the seat belt, and then apologize to Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, although I think he had legitimate reasons, but they don't comply with the law. Today, the president of New Serbia cited an example where you can prove as a minister that you are serious about these laws to anyone on the agenda today, which is to publicly warn the Deputy Prime Minister of European Integration who is going and opening illegal facilities. I'm asking you what's the difference, since we're talking about justice, because there's Miskovic and there's a couple hundred thousand squares, and there's been a reminder from then on by the Minister of Infrastructure that he's not going there, which is why he went there? Now you see what justice is, as Mrkonjic went through in the media, which man didn't tie his seat belt and admit, a bit of a riot, but he confessed, maybe I don't, maybe some time as a driver, so to speak, catch up, some time miss, and he's been satanized in the media because he doesn't respect the law. Are you going to start a campaign and prove to an ordinary citizen, if the minister apologizes, I'll believe him, that Vice-President of the Government for European Integration, and then check with that hotel in Sokobanja for buying Mr Djelic, to see what's wrong with that hotel, are there any owners there? You said something about restitution today, which I don't like. You know, Emperor of the Emperor, for God's sake, he must come back once. I belong to a group of people who may not be as professional as you or some, but I think that first everything that's possible for people to get their property back, then we can legalize, and give new building permits and sell for 50 years and 99 years. It is clear what you said today to me that there are now several hundred thousand squares, changed several times in property, that it cannot be in nature, that it must be financially, but in this Belgrade there are a million squares that can be returned, there are living heirs and once we have to do that, if we are constantly talking about Europe, about the EU, about European values. It seems to me that the other day, Mr. Minister, I read one piece of information that we are the only country in Europe that is in transition, regardless of whether we are in EU membership, the only one who has not implemented that restitution. I'm afraid that demand, that, and then we'll take Europe wrongly, when it comes to us, that we'll talk, even then, unwarrantedly, although we talk justly many times, that some specific requests are delivered to us when we get the most uncomfortable. We've privatized many objects, there's money, there's been 5% in the Restitution Fund, it's coming back, or it's replacing the property, so to speak, it buys the right owners. None of this is done. We don't see that 5% anywhere. I wanted to talk specifically about all the laws, but since my parliamentary group has as much time as there is, I wanted to pay particular attention to one law, the social housing law. That's where the government needs to show what social justice is. I am grateful to you as a member and deputy head of the NS parliamentary group for saying that this law was made during the previous Minister Ilic, but did not go through the government procedure, so it did not come into the assembly procedure. I'm afraid it'll be prevented from being implemented because it's not in the interest of those who make apartments and earn money, there's extra profit in those apartments. Here you have heard and I know reliably that for 300 euros -- the key to the hands, I can make very good quality apartments, with oak-painted parquet, to win. Those who make the house know what I'm talking about. In the end, I want to ask you a question, Mr. Minister. I hope you have three more minutes of concentration. Recently, there was a Minister of Trade who had not known one question to answer, and since then, all the ministers who came here have been asking questions about the issue. What's the price of gas, Mr. Minister, for households that need to be legalized now? They're legalized when they have to pay their taxes and now their fees are coming back, so I'd like to ask you, seeing as you have a nice pen, to take a pen and calculate this. Since I received Mr. Skundric's answer, this can only be accepted by a preschool child, in preschool age, and not by a 52-year-old man, yet a national MP. Count nice, we're talking about the price of gas, $496 times 51 dinar, 25,296 dinar, and now, Mr. Minister, it's $230 times 66, because it's a $15.180 dinar, where's this 10,000 extra profit? I said, and the director of a public firm, since he couldn't answer anything better, he told me I had no idea. I ask where this difference is, and why continue to rob citizens? Yesterday, we received a commendable statement from the prime minister, or the Prime Minister, that he will not raise the price of gas by New Year's Eve. Man, take off the price of gas! That's the darkness. I have a question for you, since I know you're good with Mr. President of the Republic, that gas winter, which he gave to the city of Sarajevo, who paid for that gas? Is that gas paid and is that what we Serbian citizens are supposed to pay for now, that "goodness" of his? Let him give his fatherland, and don't make good money for the citizens of Serbia out of their pockets.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24577	Since there are no more reports on the list of parliamentary groups, and in accordance with Article 93, no one wants to, I am concluding a joint principle search (the SRS ambassadors are reporting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure) wait for me to finish... on the proposal for a law on the regulation of space and construction, the Proposal for a Law on the State Fair and Cataster, the Proposal for a Law on Social Ageing and the Proposal for a Law on the Environmental Protection Fund. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the Proposal for a Law on Public Health, the Proposal for a Law on Transfusion Activity, the Proposal for a Law on Organ Transplantation, the Proposal for a Law on Cell and Tissue Transplantation and the Proposal for a Law on the Treatment of Infertility by Biomedical Aided Insemination Procedures. The SRS are insolent. ) Please, you will receive warnings, do not interfere. Mr. Dulic, thank you and your team, we'll still hang out at the debate in detail. Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24578	Now it's clear to me that you've permanently ruled out my position as far as the microphone is concerned, because here for days now, there's been some elemental communication that hasn't been established. Of course, I risk you not pulling the fine again. In time, I answered to point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, however, you were the one who insulted the Rules of Procedure and insulted the dignity of the National Assembly, literally, forced out of the building, Mr. Dulic, who wasn't interested in what's being said here. He simply scratched, turned around, watched as soon as this time went by, probably not satisfied with this discussion and with these arguments that opposition MPs simply shelled the government of the Republic of Serbia. I must remind you that the same manner appears, as it did in 2003, at five o'clock and 15 o'clock in the afternoon, the majority's MPs are beginning to shout and look forward to getting out. I think it violates the dignity of the National Assembly because these debates in the National Assembly should be fundamental, serious, with the maximum participation and contribution of every government representative to see the problem, to understand criticism and to look together for solutions. Mr. Dulic only came here to stay, and he made it clear to everyone by his behaviour and by his conclusive actions. You couldn't see that, because you're sitting behind him, but simply, as a random passerby, the intentional one, he came to the Assembly, and then you continued in continuity to violate the Rules of Procedure. Nor did you ask if there was anyone to report from the authorized representatives, nor did you give Mr. Dulic a word to possibly end something, but to enter your colleague here to continue with this tirad... (President: Mr Krasic, it has been two minutes, you have not called on any member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured, and you have reported for breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) You did not listen to me, I said Article 104 - dignity. (President: we'll take a look at the stenogram, but you didn't say. Look, just watch.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24579	It's been two minutes. Thank you. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. In case everyone states about Mr. Dulic's behaviour, both actively and passively, they're not in the way you said. Mr. Dulic was actually very involved, giving arguments, listening carefully and in the debate in particular will take part. Therefore, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic. You're the one who called in the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24580	I'm advertising Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I don't think it's correct this way of working and acting. You have opened this item of the agenda, where there are six laws on which one valid discussion should be carried out, in two minutes to six, and at the moment the MPs reported to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So if your goal and the ruling majority is to run through these laws without proper discussion, we'll understand it, but then say it. We've been sitting here since 10:00, working on serious laws, like the previous set. We find this a very incorrect move. Now we have to sit up all night, ten, eleven o'clock, do a principle search, say what we have to say, exhausted, in this heat, and I don't think it's right what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24581	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with article 85, we extended the work, agreed to work after 1800 hours. Therefore, we respect the Rules of Procedure. Mr Miroslav Markicevic answered the words. Do you advertise the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24582	President-in-Office, I'm advertising Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, which speaks of the leadership of the Assembly. I am not at all dissatisfied with today's presence, relationship and work by Mr Dulic towards the MPs and the Assembly. I'm dissatisfied with the way you held the session today. Here's why. We're all witnesses here, this isn't on television right now, it'll be two o'clock tonight, no problem. (President: The transfer takes another 10 minutes. So, you're being transferred. That's great. Thank you very much. So, I'm protesting that you didn't give Mr. Dulic a word. He obviously wanted to answer a lot of questions. These are very important issues that concern, first of all, the legalization of citizens, this mobile, I already have 23 calls, not all of them are positive on my account, one or two are negative, maybe people didn't understand me. That's why you should have given Mr. Dulic a word, because he's been preparing for 15-20 minutes, so you didn't respect Mr. Minister and you didn't let him speak, I don't know why. We are all here to witness that he wanted to speak to a man and answer these very important questions, because I understood very well that he and some of the MPs were emotionally aware, so he wanted to explain some things, to make it clearer for us and for the citizens of Serbia. It's really ugly what happened. You know what this looked like? Like in those cowboy Western movies, when the mail gets robbed and those with the gun come in and read the agenda, in fact, say the list of 5, 10, 100 dollars, give it here. That wasn't your style until now. It doesn't look like you. I want to believe this will never happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24583	Mr. Markicevic, if Mr. Dulic had answered the word, he would have got the word. I'm glad that you and non-verbal are communicating with him and you know what he wanted. I really don't know what he wanted because he didn't answer, so there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. If he did, he'd get the word. In any case, Mr Dulic has the possibility and likely plan to take active part in the debate and to answer all those questions that interest you, and other MPs and citizens of Serbia. And when he gives the closing statement, he'll have his own argument. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure, I answered. 48) We move on to a joint principle search of 16-20th agenda: – PROPOSALS ON PUBLIC HEALTH; TRANSFUSION OF THE PUBLIC ASSISTANCE; TRANSPLANTATION OF THE ORGANIS; TRANSPLANTS OF THE CELLS AND TKIVA; THE SURVEILLANCE OF THE ASSISTANCE OF THE ASSISTANCE OF THE SUPPORTABLE DECISION OF THE National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on points as I have already said, the total time of debate in the principle of parliamentary groups is five hours, and this is this: a parliamentary group for European Serbia - hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; a parliamentary group of SRS - hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; a parliamentary group of G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; a parliamentary group of DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and a small group of family group of Members - 24 minutes; and a small group of Members - B. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if you have not already done so, to file a statement with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these agenda points: Dr Nikola Krpic - the PUPS MP group, Zoran Bortić - the SPS - JS MP, the MP Simo Vukovic - the G 17 Plus MP group, Mr Milan Dimitrijevic - the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica, Advanced Serbia - Mr Mileta Poscurica, Mr Zarko Korać - the LDP parliamentary group and Mr Paja Momciov - the SRS parliamentary group. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Dragan Todorovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24584	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, you are a permanent violation of the Rules of Procedure and you are violating Article 100, as you are in violation of Article 104. The fourth position says very precisely that the chairman gives the floor immediately after the end of the presentation that is under way when it points to the Rules of Procedure. The unquestionable fact is that, immediately after Mr Markevic's statement, two MPs called for a word by the Rules of Procedure, however, you avoided doing so. You literally chased Minister Dulic out of the Assembly, because your goal is to move to a second point by six hours. You don't care what the debate will be, the dignity of this assembly, the MPs, the citizens of Serbia, no, you just want to finish what's in your interest. If that were best said by this list of registered speakers on this agenda point, that is, in this united debate and when you calculated that you were coming into trouble, or that you could not include this item in the agenda, you simply banned your MPs from reporting. You've even crossed over the fact that you're calling them, asking them if they're answering for a word, but because of the citizens of Serbia, so that the citizens of Serbia don't know that there are registered MPs here from the ZES and other ruling parties, because your goal is to move on to the second item of the agenda by six hours. What you're doing is crossing every possible line. The only reason this is good is because of the citizens of Serbia, to show that there are no boundaries that you will not cross to be useful at the moment, but that is what your end announces, because whoever acts in this way in the Serbian Parliament can expect... An adequate award in the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24585	Mr. Todorovic, we want to finish everything the Assembly needs to finish, which is in the interest of Serbian citizens. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: You can't force it! There's no damage to article 100. I'm warning you. I give you a warning because you interfere with my leadership of the National Assembly. Does the representative of Professor Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Milosavlevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24586	Dear Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the electoral will of Serbian citizens, it is my special honor to address you at the beginning of the debate on public health laws, transfusiological activity, organ transplants, tissue and cell transplants, as well as the law on the treatment of infertility by biomedical assisted fertilisation procedures. The Law on Public Health regulates the realisation of public interest by creating conditions for the preservation and improvement of the health of the population through comprehensive activities of society aimed at preserving the physical and mental health of the population, preserving the working and living environment, preventing the emergence and impact of risk factors for health, illness and injury, also the way and procedure, as well as the conditions for the organisation and implementation of public health. There are several regulations in the Republic of Serbia that directly or indirectly refer to health, and these are laws, and regulations, decisions, rules, orders and instructions. Important steps in Serbia to comply with EU rules in the field of public health were made by adopting a Sustainable Development Strategy and a Public Health Strategy adopted in March 2009. The public health strategy is a support in meeting social care for health, providing conditions in which people can be healthy and makes the basis for government decisions on actions to improve the health and quality of life of the population of the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of public health law is necessary in order to clearly define this area and bring into line with the existing legal assets "Aki Communitre", the role of the state in protecting public health interests, the way in which all the necessary participants are involved in the activities of harmonisation of public health interventions, the development of efficient public health infrastructure and the introduction of responsibilities for the financing of public health services by both the state and other sources. The public health law can therefore be defined as a set of relations, rights and duties by which the state provides conditions for the health of the population, identifies, prevents and reduces risks to the health of the population and limits the autonomy, privacy, ownership or other legally protected interests of the individual, with a view to safeguarding and promoting the health of the community. The law on transfusiological activity implies an important need to ensure that in the area of transfusion activity, i.e. planning, collection, blood processing and blood components, regardless of their purpose, as well as the preservation, management, distribution, supply and issue of blood and components intended for transfusions, the establishment of standards for the provision of adequate amounts of safe blood to the population of the Republic of Serbia, and that healthcare institutions carrying out this work enable better conditions to perform their work in accordance with modern achievements in this area. One of the objectives is certainly harmonisation with high standards, which is also recommended at this time by the Council of Europe and the European Commission in the field of planning, collection, blood processing and blood components, regardless of their intention, recommendations from the World Health Organisation, as well as by the European Parliament and the Council of Europe on the setting of standards of quality and safety in the collection, testing, processing, storage, management and distribution of blood and blood components, also technical guidelines on the preparation, use and security of blood components, pointing to the need to improve blood transfusion activity. The main reason is to provide adequate amounts of safe blood and blood components in the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of this law aims to establish new, more standards of health institutions that carry out this activity, i.e. certain tasks of this activity, as well as more standards of institutions that use blood and blood components in their work. By achieving this basic goal, it is necessary to ensure and achieve national self-satisfaction in the provision of safe blood and blood components. In addition to setting up an appropriate legal framework for transfusiological action at a higher level, in line with international body directives in this area, it is necessary to ensure coordination of measures and activities to strengthen voluntary giving, to improve the organisation and quality of work, to establish appropriate conditions regarding staff, equipment and premises, to establish an appropriate information system, to enable appropriate communication of all institutions, to prepare and implement continued training programmes for healthcare professionals, also to consider and optimise the financing of health institutions. A quality assurance programme is needed, which is also guaranteed by this regulation. In achieving the highest level of safe blood and blood components it is necessary to provide adequate conditions for the application of a closed blood-processing system and components in all health institutions that carry out the work of blood processing. The establishment of a quality system will be carried out in accordance with the standards of medical professions for collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of blood and blood components. The adoption of this law aims to establish standards for the provision of adequate quality blood for patients as end-users. Citizens, i.e. patients as end-users, will be allowed quality and safety of blood and guarantee blood components collected, tested, produced, stored, distributed and issued in accordance with high medical standards, and for society in general is useful in establishing a higher quality in providing health care. For healthcare institutions, the adoption of this law shall provide the necessary conditions to enable, through a system of issue, i.e. the withdrawal of authorisations to carry out this activity, the highest standard in all procedures of collection, testing, production, storage, distribution and issue, in accordance with the conditions laid down by this law and the sublegal acts to be adopted for the implementation of this law and with medical standards. Health institutions will be able to achieve the highest level of safety, and the organisation of compulsory health insurance can expect the establishment of a system and obtaining and withdrawing authorisations from health institutions, i.e. parts of these institutions from the network plan, i.e. certain transfusiological activities. In accordance with all of this, the paper in the Bill's proposal refers to the provision of health care facilities with quality and safety blood and blood components, in accordance with medical standards, the arrangement of methods, procedures, conditions and organisation of transfusiological activities; the establishment of social care for the health of the Republic's population through the provision of conditions for the supply of the population in all parts of the country with sufficient quality and safety blood and components, the organisation of hospital blood banks in health institutions that carry out stationary work that stores both blood and blood components and pretransfusion tests for the needs of that institution. The establishment of a quality system, i.e. the withdrawal of permits, as well as the pursuit of transfusiological activity or certain tasks of this activity; the establishment of a quality system; the establishment of haemovgilance; the provision of security, monitoring and reporting of serious, unwanted events and unwanted reactions; the education of hospital transfusiological committees that monitor the application and management of blood and blood components in stationary health institutions; the establishment of appropriate blood storage, management and distribution systems of blood and components; the management of a single register of donors, with particular management of data on persons who are temporarily or permanently deprived of the ability to give blood; the management of appropriate documentation and records in the area of transfusiological activity, the establishment of an annual plan for the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, the establishment of methodologies for determining the cost of blood treatment and blood components and the education of the biomedicinetry of the Ministry of Health. The organ transplant law regulates the taking of organs or parts of organs from a living or dead person for transplanting into another person's body for treatment, supervision of the implementation of this law and other issues of importance for the organisation and implementation of organ transplants or parts of the body. The reasons are that the system is regulated in the area of transplantation, i.e. the taking of organs or parts of organs from a living or dead person to transplant into another person's body for treatment, institution organisations, supervision, as well as other issues of importance. Then, to create conditions for organ transplants in accordance with the most modern standards of medical science and practice, since this area of medicine is the one that develops intensively and is constantly getting greater and greater treatment opportunities than previously incurable diseases. Then, to create conditions for the promotion of transplants at European and national level in order to inform and familiarise citizens with the importance of organ donation, to regulate the area of transplantation in line with EU rules in this area. The Transplant Law is in line with the strict recommendations of all international institutions, as well as the Convention on Human Rights in Biomedicine and the Framework Protocol for the Implementation of the Convention on Human Rights in Biomedicine. We note that the area of cell and tissue transplantation is governed by the proposal for this package of laws, in accordance with the latest recommendation of the EU Commission, the area of tissue and cell transplantation is governed by a special law, independent of the organ transplant law. Between 2000 and 2007 a total of 532 kidney transplants were made in Serbia, with 84 dead persons and 448 live donors. During that period, eight liver transplants were performed, seven from dead faces, one from a living donor. During 2008, a kidney transplant has been done at the Clinical Centre of Serbia in Belgrade, the Children's Clinic in Tirshovo, Belgrade, the Centre for Transplantation in Novi Sad, the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina, the clinic for nephrology of the Military-medical Academy, and this year at the clinic for Nephrology of the Clinical Centre Nis. Compared to modern experiences, in the European environment, organ giving in Serbia is two per million people, when it comes to taking organs from dead people. The adoption of this law will create conditions for promoting donation and raising citizens' awareness of the importance of transplants, as well as for organising health institutions at the job of transplants, thus increasing the number of transplants and creating conditions for improving the quality of health care provided, in line with modern standards of today's medical sciences and practices. The law on cell and tissue transplants regulates the acquisition, donation, testing, processing, preservation and storage, distribution of human cells and tissues intended for human use, the establishment of banks of cells and tissues, the supervision of the implementation of this law and the conduct of certain tasks of state administration in the field of cell and tissue transplantation, as well as other issues of importance for cell and tissue transplantation. The reasons are to systematically regulate the area of human tissue and cell transplants, to create conditions for human cell and tissue transplantation in accordance with modern, modern standards of science and practice, since this area of medicine is one of the most intensive developments, to also create conditions for the promotion of cell and tissue transplants at national and European level and to bring the area of cell and tissue transplantation into line with the positions of international institutions in this area. The area of cells and tissues is governed by a special law, in accordance with the recommendation of the EU Commission, that the area of cell and tissue transplantation should be governed by a special law, not subject to organ transplant law. All the countries of the European continent which have adopted laws that are uniquely regulated by cell and tissue transplants and organ transplants, are at this time harmonising their legislation with those Directives. The adoption of this law creates conditions for promoting donation and raising citizens' awareness of the importance of transplants, as well as for the higher level of organisation of health services to carry out these complicated procedures. During the period from 2000 to 2007 at the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina in Novi Sad, at the clinic for haematology VMA, at the Institute for Mother and Child Dr Vukan Čupić and at the Institute of Haematology of the Clinical Centre, a total of 283 bone marrow transplants were performed. At the Institute of Eye Diseases of the Clinical Centre in Belgrade in the Oocular Diseases clinic, VMA total of 286 corneal transplants. A bone transplant at the orthopaedic surgery and trauma clinic in the Vojvodina Clinical Center 231. A total of 11 ligament transplants. During 2008, 124 bone marrow transplants and also a bone transplant of 258, ligament at 131. So, the law on tissue and cell transplants, together with the organ transplant law, but in two separate regulations and under the organisation and supervision of a guaranteed law establishing a biomedicine administration in the Ministry of Health, should contribute to significant progress in both areas in the years ahead of us after the adoption of this law. The law on the treatment of infertility through biomedical assisted fertilisation procedures shall regulate the conditions, the manner and procedure of treatment of infertility in women and men, the procedures of biomedical assisted fertilisation for the conception of the child, the supervision of the implementation of this law and the conduct of certain matters of the state administration in this area, the treatment of fertility by biomedical assisted fertilisation, and other issues of importance for the implementation of procedures regulated by this regulation, the reasons for the systematic management of the area of treatment of infertility by the procedures of biomedical aided fertilisation, to ensure supervision of the implementation of this law and the conduct of State administration in the field of fertility treatment, as well as other issues regulated by this law. The adoption of this regulation will create conditions for the treatment of infertility by biomedical assisted fertilisation even more in line with modern standards of medical science and practice, as conditions will be created for a higher level of promotion of donation of reproductive cells at national level in order to inform and familiarise citizens with the importance of donating reproductive cells. The area of treatment for infertility will be governed by the rules and standards of the Council of Europe of the European Parliament and of the EU in this area by the procedures of biomedically assisted fertilisation. The law is also in line with the Convention on Human Rights in Biomedicine and the Framework Protocol implementing the Convention on Human Rights in the Biomedicine of the Council of Europe. On a proposal from the Ministry of Health, the Republic Health Insurance Institute has been funding an out-of-body fertilisation attempt by the Republic Health Insurance Authority since July 2006. The professional criteria were proposed by the Republic's expert extraterrestrial fertilisation and assisted reproduction Commission. The programme is being conducted at the Institute of Gynaecology and Accumulation of the Clinical Centre of Serbia, at the National Front of Belgrade and at the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina, and since September 2008 in six private health institutions. During 2007, a total of 699 successful out-of-body fertilisations were made in the three mentioned state institutions, and then in 2008 a total of nine institutions, three in state and six in private ownership, 1.156 successful out-of-body fertilisations. In 2007, the Republic Health Insurance Office invested around 197m dinars in these proceedings, and in 2008, 325,964,322 dinars. In this area, the percentage of success in Serbia in these two years is 32%, in Great Britain is 28%, in Slovenia 36%, in Hungary 31%. An egg cell donation was conducted only at the Institute of Gastronomy and Accumulation of the Clinical Centre of Serbia in a number of 1.24%, in 25 of the 2,024 attempts. During the public debate that lasted, I can freely say, for more than four months, with the availability of all solutions and on open round tables organised according to the plan approved by the government in Nis, and in Kragujevac, both in Novi Sad and Belgrade, and then during the discussion by electronic means, because all the draft laws were available at the health ministry site, there were different tones of some solutions. When we talk about out-of-body fertilization, as we call this area, it's actually a law on the treatment of infertility. This means that he deals with the regulation of the treatment of infertility by the procedures of biomedically assisted fertilisation, when women and men are married or in an out-of-marriage community. Serbia's family law prescribes the definition of family from the aspect of parental responsibility, so understanding the concept of family has no other way. If it were defined by this law, it would not be right in the context of the existing Family Law. In Croatia, for example, a few days ago, parliament passed a law that treats only the marriage community from the corner of treating infertility through biomedically assisted fertilisation. If the argument were to be respected in some respects, that even individual women or men living alone can be treated in this way as the law provides, in this case it could only be achieved in view of the gender equality of the introduction of surrogate motherhood, and against surrogate motherhood was the majority of the profession and the majority of the argument during the public debate. In other words, I would repeat that this law on the treatment of infertility is a biomedically assisted fertilization procedure, and all others, very complex and certainly a large part of the issue, would have to be dealt with by legislation on the family and then by a new regulation that would regulate, other than the treatment of infertility that is defined and regulated by this law, and something else. The laws we are proposing today represent a way to first regulate important areas that are very dynamic and demanding. The adoption of the law is the way in which in the area of blood transfusions, organ transplants, cell and tissue transplants, treatment of infertility through biomedically assisted fertilisation procedures, and get even better results, to the benefit of citizens and patients in need of assistance in these areas. Public health defined by the proposed law is, in fact, the concept of defining social responsibility for citizens' health and makes a natural framework for the other four regulations. I think and dare say that this is in the best sense of understanding the public, general interest to which we all seek, by dealing with politics as the least imperfect way of solving the problem of citizens and society, that this is one of the few, I would say, an ideal opportunity, to bring all possible political differences in attitudes due to the most obvious public general interest that is being achieved by the proposed laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24587	Before we continue to speak to the rapporteurs of the committees in charge, I would like to inform the National Assembly that the New Serbia parliamentary group at points 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20, on which a joint search is being conducted, will be represented by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Would the word of the committees responsible, MP Pai Momchilov, chairman of the Health and Family Committee want? Do you want a word? You don't want to be a reporter, you want to be an exceptional reporter. Thank you. MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. ) National MP Laslo Varga, Chairman of the Committee on European Integration? No, I don't. ) Do the People's MPs Paja Momcilov, Dusanka Plečević, Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljevic and Milan Dimitrijevic, who gave an opinion at the meetings of the Committee on Health and Family, and when considering all five legislative proposals? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24588	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here's this storm, tortured by eight hours' work so far, we need to discuss a set of very important health laws. I'm not complaining about it. We doctors have learned about these conditions. We have duty. We're gonna make this easy. I don't know how Mr. Secretary's gonna make it. The SRS believes that the proposals for all five laws are not high-quality and will not bring about an expected better arrangement in the areas for which they are adopted and will not contribute more significantly to improving the health of Serbian citizens. The proposed legal solutions only preserves the existing poor condition in Serbia's health. The adoption of the law does not fully respect the opinion of the professional public and associations and civil society organisations. Important laws are adopted in an emergency procedure for unclear reasons, thus preventing a quality discussion of the laws of the committee. It is incorrect for laws with different topics to conduct a united debate, preventing a quality and argument-based debate at the assembly session. Lexic ignorance and lack of knowledge of the meaning of the basic concepts of the European Directive are unacceptable. In addition to these laws, a large number of sublegal acts will have to be standardized by a number of other important uncovered problems in the area to which the laws apply. All legislative proposals promote the centralisation of the minister's power even more and give him a series of unnecessary powers. These laws maintain the health sector's monopoly and proposals completely discriminate against the private health sector. The Law on Public Health is in fact a declaration, which does not conform to the law by its character, and therefore does not need to be adopted as a law. In the case of the Transfusion Activity Act, the treatment of infertility by methods of biomedically assisted fertilisation, organ transplants and tissue and cell transplants, where the scientific and professional component in regulation must be of primary importance, the creation of European and world standards by the administration of the regulatory body is harshly characterized by the administration of the regulatory body. Due to the exceptional importance of the proposed laws for Serbian citizens, the SRS has tried to correct the initially poorly proposed solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24589	The word has a folk MP Dušanka Plecevic, who has issued an opinion on the same committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the Health and Family Committee, I have also issued an opinion on this set of laws. This primarily refers to the proposal for a public health law, which I think is too general, declarative, linguistically inaccurate, in some parts even contradictory. The very title of the bill, words of public health, is not in the spirit of the Serbian language, would be more appropriate to the title - folk health, or the use of some foreign words, etc. In these proposed laws, the government has also applied the Autonomous Province to us in unity, such as in Article 2. The proposal for a public health law, which explains the meaning of individual expressions, where point 24 is said to be a public health system that provides conditions for the preservation and improvement of public health, and is made up of health institutions established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province and local self-government units. With this law you have declared a significant part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia i.e. AP KIM. As far as the proposal for a law on transfusiological activity is concerned, the main observation is that there is no strategy and that is going towards centralisation of this activity. I'll talk about it a little bit more in the principle debate. What is common to all proposed laws is a clearly defined medical administration. The EU foresees this regulatory body beyond political influence. However, we have what is being placed at the Ministry of Health, which is a bad solution for us. We believe that it should work within the Institute of Public and People's Health of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a body transplant law provides that the Directorate for Biomedicine shall have a director, three assistant directors, an Ethics Committee and external experts, but it shall not be seen which criteria are handled by the Government and the Minister in the appointment of directors and its assistants and the establishment of a list of prominent experts, and who makes up the Ethics Committee. The number of employees in the Ministry of Health will therefore increase by establishing this administration, and the SRS is in principle against increasing the state apparatus. Furthermore, I have an objection to the urgency of the procedure in passing these laws. You say in the proposal for an organ transplant law, in Article 84, that "The Biomedicine Administration will start working at the latest on 1 July 2010," and in article 86, you say, regulations for the implementation of this law will be passed within 18 months of the start of work of the Biomedicine Administration. This is in a conflict with the explanation of the reasons for the urgency of the procedure you gave at the end of the proposal for this law. The same or similar deadlines are given in other proposals of this set of medical laws. Furthermore, the public debate has not been conducted in quality. Finally, I do not believe that the draft laws on transfusiological activity, organ transplants, cell and tissue transplantation and the treatment of infertility by biomedically assisted insemination with the proposal for a public health law should be pooled. The proposal for a public health law was to be discussed in particular. Because of all of the above, the SRS parliamentary group submitted quality amendments. We hope you will recognize them, adopt them, and improve the text of the law itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24591	The word has a folk MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24592	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, at a session of the Health and Family Committee, I issued an opinion on the proposal for a law on organ transplants and a bill on cell and tissue transplants. I want to clear and unambiguously send a message that the SRS parliamentary group has nothing against organ, cell and tissue transplantation. On the contrary, it advocates that such important existential issues are resolved to the benefit of Serbian citizens. I have serious objections to the bill, so I suggest they withdraw. The SRS MPs will not vote in favour of the proposed laws, because they are confusing, ambiguous and suggest certain mistrust, which creates the possibility of abuse and manipulation. Why the emergency laws? Why do you unite the debate when you claim that these laws are important? One of the possible reasons for bringing these laws into one item of the agenda is that you want not to discuss these life-threatening laws in a quality way. Someone wants to bring something that's most likely suspicious. If the matter were clean, if the legal proposals were right, no one would be discussing those laws like this. Why is it urgent that the biomedicine administration is formed by 2010? Then how will the laws apply? Bringing in sublegal acts will be here in 18 months, and then what's the emergency? Laws cannot be applied without such an important central body as the biomedicine administration. The main objection between the SRS and mine is to a vaguely defined regulatory body that you called biomedicine management, because if the name reflects the function, then this body is involved in administrative affairs, but it is not. You give this body to follow science, determine and suggest what will be doctrine, and that can't be. Now you want the Ministry of Health to do highly specialized professional and scientific work. The profession is against the rule of law. Scientists and experts do not accept that a person at the Ministry of Health discusses doctrine and imposes it. This face must have academic and professional calling and long-term experience in the field of organ and tissue transplantation. Inaccurate and unclear qualifications of the Director of Biomedicine Administration have been proposed. The proposed member shall indicate that he must be a prominent expert. What does that mean? What are the criteria for a prominent expert? Academic, professional or political? Mr Minister, I expect you to answer many questions that will be raised to you during this debate by the MPs of the SRS, and one of them is – whether the Biomedicine Administration will deal with science and profession or do the tasks of the state administration, which cannot be done in the Ministry in the proposed way. Due to all of this, the SRS parliamentary group has submitted quality amendments, and we hope you will consider these amendments and adopt them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24593	The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24594	On the Health Committee, I've ruled out an opinion on these laws. So, when someone takes their mind off things, they have to say what they're doing it for. It seems to us from the DSS that this is about three groups of regulations. So, the first group of regulations, or law, is certainly a law on public health, which we consider to be completely useless, inapplicable, and that as such should not have been found in the procedure. The second group of laws, and to resolve this dilemma immediately, does not think that we are against these laws, so it is the laws on transfusiological activity, the bill on cell and tissue transplantation, the treatment of infertility by biomedical assisted fertilisation and the proposal for a law on tissue cell transplant. So we think you need laws. What opens up a misunderstanding to us, which is that these laws required one law, which is the law on the protection of the rights of the patient. So, by that law, these laws that I've listed would have their full and complete value. Of course, these laws have their own inaccuracies and their own inaccuracies, and we will in the debate on the details of these inaccuracies point out. But to go back to what I said, and that's not the law on the right of a patient. Mr. Minister, you've been Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 2002. I'll remind you on June 25th, 2002, when the controversy in the public of Serbia opened. You, visiting then on Radio B92, said the following, and I'll read it to you. When asked about the patient's rights, you said in one part of your presentation to the head of Radio B92: "You know that an independent group of doctors and lawyers discussed the recent story of the patient's charter and rights and that there was a press discussion on the subject. Of course we will insist on the patient's charter, independently and outside the institutions, but also within the institutions. So, we'll discuss the details of the patient charter, install them into that ombudsman institution now. And in future legislation, this institution must exist because it is part of the modern health legislation of the normal developed world in which we live today." So you said that seven years ago. And what do we have today? We have a protector of the patient's rights and let's see who that person is. It's a person appointed by the director of a medical institution who defends the rights of a patient. We have examples where patients are prevented from writing their complaint about the work of health institutions and medical staff. We have an example of where the pages in those books are being ripped apart, so they don't come to the public eye. See, that's why we thought, and that's why we feel that before these laws, this law should have been passed that would respect the rights of a patient. So, Mr. Minister, when something isn't transparent, then it's bad, and transparency is an excellent disinfectant and you know it very well. The third group of laws that are not in this package, and in one very strange way is declared to the other, or at the last item of the agenda, is the loan. An additional loan, which should be said in a few words, amounting to 10,500,000 euros. So when you read that law carefully, you will see that there are various miracles. And completing the information system, and fighting corruption, and overseeing the work of the Health Insurance Institute, etc. You see what you are telling us, or what is proposed to the citizens of Serbia, that the state take a loan of 10,500,000 euros to fight corruption in health care. Is it public recognition that there is corruption in health care? Is it necessary for us to fight corruption in health care? Aren't there other mechanisms? And where are the laws, and where is the patient's rights law, so that the patient can oppose... (President: Five minutes of Parliament, the time at your disposal has been used. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24595	Do the People's MPs Donka Banovic, Momir Markovic and Sladjan Mijaljević, who expressed their opinion at the session of the Committee on European Integration when considering the proposal for a public health law? National MP Sladjan Mijaljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24596	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, I'm really surprised that you, as a doctor and a health minister, allow yourself to continue the session after 6:00 p.m., given that there's a 40-degree wheeze outside here in the building over 30, and we're more than dehydrated to continue our work tonight until 0:00 p.m. Well, that's what it says about you. I've singled out my opinion for other reasons. I'm going to name some of them here now, because I'm surprised where another set of laws from a truly excessive set of laws that must be passed according to an emergency procedure, and so important laws, medical laws, where it really is life or death, or the use of one's organs even after his earthly life. Today I read in a report by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Djelic, that the Assembly did a 280-percent job in the first trimester, so we did a really superhuman job. But, well, we're doing it in a desire to help this country move a little forward, but given how fast you stand by these laws and at what speed you send them here by emergency procedure, we really suspect that the Tizakons will be of quality and that they will be well processed, that a good public debate has been done, that as much as possible will be built into them through the necessary things, which have been shown in practice to be necessary. Of course we have submitted a number of amendments to fix this speed and haste, so we think that this is another group of laws that will only look nice on paper, and in practice it will be really difficult to achieve. You spoke in the opening section about the need for greater protection of physical and mental health. There are whole groups of people who are attacked by certain pressures in the first stage, and later and physically, so that people's consciousness changes, there's social and health pathology. Indeed, we have an enormous number of suicides throughout Serbia, and some cities of the Serbian state are really ahead of cities, say the EU or those cities where stress syndrome really destroys their population. We didn't notice that during the previous period, something about it was so successful that you managed to prevent it, except that you formed a river police unit under Brank's bridge to get the unfortunates out of the water in the first few minutes, so whoever passed, passed. We also have a schizophrenic situation in public where we have two ministers, not only from the same government, but from the same party, where one minister is launching a campaign -- a month of fighting tobacco smoke, and another minister is opening a tobacco processing plant. You should have a little more consensus in the government or at least in the party, if you can't do it all the right way there in the government. You said that the public interest or public interest is to eliminate the risk factors for health impairment. You also mentioned blood transfusions, etc. I'm going to ask you a question that I and a group of my associates have been running for a long time, about 20 years here in the country of Serbia. I'll read you a paper called "Special Medical Assistance", and point 2 is: under no circumstances do I want to receive a transfusion of blood, red blood cells, white blood cells, platelets, or plasma, even if healthcare professionals feel it is necessary to stay alive, I don't agree to take my blood and store it in order to receive it again later. It's a religious sect that we have several deaths in this manner of life and behavior. I didn't notice you did anything about it. When will you, Mr. Minister, do something against a new form of addiction called cult syndrome? Our experts regularly informed you of all the labs from the world medical conventions, when you came back here to the country, they even stapled their card for their labs to make a little more personal what they were informing you about, and otherwise they were highly recognised medical workers. You didn't do anything about it. You've been a minister for several years now, so you could at least form a team that could have been educated in Sorbonne in postgraduate studies, as a parent team that could have trained our medical experts to solve this problem. Mr. Minister, when someone talks to you culturally, you could look at it once in five minutes, not look at it from the side.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24597	Your time is up. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? National MP Nikola Krpić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24598	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Presidency, the President-in-Office, the PUPS MPs have studied this set of laws well and in the work concerning them, I will say a few words to each of them. The health of the population is determined by individual characteristics of the individual, gender, age, etc., factors of the external environment, social, economic, physical and cultural environment and the mutual impact of those parameters. Health differences are due to differences between groups of population based on age, gender, socio-economic status, incompetence or ethnicity. They must not only be seen as unnecessary and inevitable, but also as unjust, which is the case with poverty. Poverty, as you know, has a negative effect on health, and the relationship between poverty and disease is well known. This is witnessed by history of medicine and numerous studies that confirm a strong link between health inequalities and the material state of the population. The biggest problem of poverty is that the disease is associated with increased health care costs, but also with poor people being caught in a vicious circle. Poverty creates disease, and the disease sustains poverty. The reform of Serbia's health care system is inseparable from the total reforms of the state and society that have been taking place since 2000. The preservation and improvement of population health implies addressing a wide range of problems through mechanisms that are implemented through integrated strategic approaches and activities of social systems related to health. In this sense, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a number of significant multi-sector and health-based strategic documents, national programmes and activities. Also, the health care legislative framework is supported by new laws on medicines, health care, health insurance and healthcare workers' chambers and others. Many of the activities that the Ministry of Health performs in co-operation with international partners have led to progress, particularly in the restoration and modernisation of health facilities and equipment, as well as improvement in the process of working in health institutions. In addition to defining priority areas and directing health services and other sectors towards these issues, whose resolution will bring about the greatest benefit for the population, especially to reduce health inequalities, as the positive trends of the population's health indicators suggest, Serbia is still facing problems with which overcoming is a major challenge. Among the most significant indicators of development not only of the health care system but also of the countries and societies in general are the mortality of children from one year of age to a thousand live births, child mortality rates and children up to five years of life per thousand live births, child mortality rates up to five years of age. Both indicators have a constant multiannual positive trend, which remains beyond the recorded rate in highly developed EU countries. Public health isn't regulated by our special law. Public health, according to MPs, should be an umbrella over the law on the protection of Serbia's population's health. Many regulations governing this matter are found in almost all areas, but unfortunately outside the health care system. Over 100 regulations regulate this matter, and the PUPS party and MPs are most interested in health care, health insurance, regularity and quality of life supplies and items for general use, drinking water, air, environmental principles. Public health is the science and art of preventing diseases, extending lives, improving physical health and efficiency through organised efforts of the community to recover the environment, controlling community infections, education of individuals and on the principles of personal hygiene, organising early diagnosis health services and preventive treatment of diseases, and developing social mechanisms that will ensure that every individual in Serbia has a standard of life that will allow it to preserve its health. If health is fundamentally human right necessary for the realisation of all other rights, every human being has and must have the right to enjoy the highest possible standards of health that ensure that a decent life is maintained. This right is realised through a number of complementary approaches to international and national policies, declarations, conventions, agreements, through health programmes, through and through national constitutions, through laws, regulations, regulations and other acts that you mentioned earlier. Hence, the question arises whether there is a right to us, or whether the right to health also means the right to be healthy. The PUPS welcomes the adoption of public health laws, as all countries in our environment have long agreed their laws to regulate this matter with existing EU regulations. It has formulated its recommendations through targets that advocate the application of all or those measures that affect the promotion of health and prevention of those contagious and massive non-infectious diseases of significance for each country individually, but also for all EU and world countries. There are certainly groups of populations that the state must play its part in this matter most to help. Who? In the first place, Mr. Minister, the older and the normal that PUPS MPs want to talk about them first, and then about the poor, and these are again pensioners who are poor, then refugees, immigrants, sick, etc. Public health is today a world science in the prevention of disease, in the extension of the human century, and in improving health through organized actions and the will of society. Public health is investigating factors that lead to disease and epidemics and through legislative forms controls these factors. Health and public well-being. The government, the Ministry of Health and we MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have a legislative obligation to ensure the health of the Serbian population, however, neither the Government nor the Minister himself here, nor we MPs can do it ourselves. Why? Intersectoral activities, actions and partnerships with all responsible factors throughout our Republic are needed, because let us not forget that health is socially good for many other sectors. If we look at several achievements of public health in the 20th century, where Serbia had some significance, vaccination, safe jobs, control of infectious diseases, reduction of mortality due to coronary and cerebralvascular diseases, safer and healthier food, healthier mothers, family planning, fluorisation of drinking water, recognition of tobacco use as a health hazard. This certainly results in the global objectives of our policy, the UN's Millennium Goals Health for All in the 21st century and the EU's public-health strategy. Public health challenges in Serbia, it is, Mr. Minister, primarily the ageing population, such as migration, environmental and labour pollution, unemployment that causes poverty, the spread of life-threatening lifestyles, smoking, alcoholism, drugs, risky sexual behaviour, functioning of the health care system. Of course, the current challenges that await us, which is prevention of disease, risk factors, social and economical health determinations, workplace health, aging and vulnerable population groups. Public health is today - the science and art of preventing disease and extending life and improving health through organised efforts of society. Public health is investigating factors that lead to disease and epidemic and control of these factors. Now a few objections from, this would be all about public health, and that's next. The law on tissue and cell transplants should regulate procedures relating to the collection, out-of-body processing or processing, cryoconservation, storage and distribution of human cells and tissues intended for therapeutic use in the treatment of patients. This law requires regulation for the establishment of a cell and tissue bank, the organisation of the transplant health service and other issues of importance for the transplant. In this proposal, on several occasions it is called for the jurisdiction and rights of the so-called Biomedical administrations. However, it is not exactly defined what and which of the experts in the field of transplant medicine makes up that administration, what its professional capacities are and similar details. The attached bill does not correctly define the role and ingenuity of the Republic Commission for stem cell transplantation, which is made up of leading experts in transplant medicine. The role and importance of the existence of national guides to tissue and cell transplants are also not stated. I also believe that our party's MPs believe that the law should cover the exact place of both the Republic Commission and the guide in creating and implementing the national transplant policy strategy. When it comes to the treatment of infertility of biomedically assisted fertilisation procedures, we have no professional and ethical objections to the proposed law and PUPS MPs in the voting day will vote for this set of laws. One more thing about stem cells, it's good, that's it. It's perfectly decided to put this part into law. The PUPS will vote for this law in the voting day. Why? We'll vote for the reason that after the child's birth, parents can make a legacy of stem cells. In this way, medical science has made it possible for any family member to need treatment from leukemia or some immune diseases, anaemia, etc. to be treated. Issuing and keeping stem cells from the blood of the crib after birth from the umbilical cord is done all over the world, worked with us, worked with us, worked with us. Cells are guarded by special treatment. So isolated and preserved save millions of lives. We welcome the Secretary of Health's move to put this under the auspices of the law. Mr. Minister, PUPS MPs will vote for this set of laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24599	The word is Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24600	If a politician's profession were to be decisive, Serbia should be as healthy as a dren, because there are doctors and health workers at the top of the government and political parties. There are more than 20 people in white in important positions in power. At least there are so many more in the province, regional and municipal authorities. In the Serbian government, there are four doctors: Rasim Ljajic, Oliver Dulic, Sulejman Ugljanin and Tomica Milosavljevic. With all due respect to them, including the presidents of the Assembly who is also a neuropsychiatrist, however, the current minister is the only one who is truly irreplaceable. Five mandates and seven years of loyalty to the minister's chair. So, it's almost the Ginis Book of Records. But what is also important for this period of government of our seven-year-old minister is the fact that everything in the fall since 2000 and 2002, especially when it came to this resort. The results of the research done by the Ministry of Health are not insinuations, I'm not saying it, these results clearly speak about the deterioration of health conditions during Mr. Tomice's ministry. I'll just give you some examples. So, the survey was done on a representative sample of 7,673 households and on the field of data processing was done by the Belgrade Strategic Marketing Agency. What's established? More than half of Serbia's population, nearly 56%, suffers from some chronic disease, increased blood pressure – 46.5% of adults, which is a significantly higher percentage than in 2000, for example, rheumatoid diseases, kidney disease, increased fat in the blood, allergies. The most common health problems are insomnia. Serbian citizens, this is interesting for the president, too, cannot boast of good mood. Suffering, anxiety, sadness, exhaustion, fatigue, are the mental conditions facing each other in Serbia for the longer term. Privileges of positive feelings of calm, happiness or energy enjoyed only 4.4% of the materially better-standing adult population. Now it's probably 1.4%. Every other person in Serbia has problems with fat, 54.5%, but not from good and quality nutrition, but from food rich in animal fats and those foods that are usually eaten by the poor in large quantities, so they are fatted by empty calories. As many as 67.7% of Serbian adults spend their free time inactively, while easier physical efforts carry out 20% of them. In 2006, the percentage of alcohol-consuming residents was 40.3% or 5% more than in 2000. There's another interesting piece of information, so there's a lot of trouble with swimming. The percentage of regular baths or showers fell from 64.9% in 2000 to 56.7% in 2006. According to research data, Serbia's adults up to 35 years of age, then women and residents of larger cities, the most regularly maintained personal hygiene. So we're talking here now about some new roof law, another one of those roof laws that are actually a roof for a house without foundation, and that our health system is full of inadequacy, unstable and unsustainable. Now to quote those you love very much and who usually work well with you, especially with a political group belonging to the minister. The Open Society Fund, in co-operation with the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights, published a report on which public health, which is only a segment of this research dealing with human security from the aspect of daily life for Serbian citizens, is unsatisfactory. This research confirms the results of the Ministry of Health's research on people's concerns for their own and health loved ones, suggesting that the degree of illness and the threat of various diseases are realistically present and endangering only the vital core of the people and that the health system does not give sufficient confidence and does not guarantee the safety of people, whether it is preventative or adequate, timely and effective reaction. The existing health needs in Serbia do not come under adequate protection, nor is protection of human life seen in the context of security. Parts of research dedicated to the functioning of the health system estimate that the results achieved are not satisfied, neither by citizens nor by health professionals. In addition to objective circumstances, such as the inherited broken health from the previous decade and poverty of the state, the slow changes in this area are also affected by legislation. Serbia's health system is still relying on a large number of legislation that comes from the period, you will not believe, the former SFRY, especially in the work of sublegal acts. Since it is a highly sensitive area, which is then devastated in every respect, surprises the slowness and ineffectiveness of the government, the Ministry of Health, to clearly and ultimately put in place a phase-based health reform. So, health care in Serbia, the conclusion of this research is similar to a house without foundation. At first glance, it's getting nicer and better, but the system is in short supply, unstable, unsustainable. There is no firm and clear legislative regulation, and there is no existing law, which is the biggest problem, they do not implement or respect, and they also abound with bad solutions. Health care is, among other things, burdensome and hard to prove corruption which, according to the report, is undoubtedly present, from the petty bribery of medical and non-medical staff, through the acquisition of functions and professional titles, to certain highly suspicious tenders for the purchase of medical equipment, the execution of construction works. It is practically before us, speaking of this law on public health, another of the bad health laws, common in the manner of the Chief Minister of Health, and a law that does not lead us into any reform, but brings us back a few steps. This is a common and long-recognized manner, where nothing fundamentally changes under the heading of proposing reform and European laws in the healthcare system. In addition, this also confirms the fact that in this system no one is really satisfied, neither the citizens as patients nor the insurance companies, who are dissatisfied with the scope and quality of the services they receive for paid contributions, nor health workers, who are of course dissatisfied with low wages and unsatisfactory working conditions, nor private doctors, who are again dissatisfied with the inability to participate in the system of providing services to compulsory health insurance. The proposed text of the law not only regulates the procedure, manner and conditions for public health, but also introduces additional confusion. So this law could be said not only to be confusing, but to be completely inconsistencies, even incomplete, linguistic and conceptually unconformed, and therefore it would be best to be removed from the agenda and returned to the processor. Since that didn't happen, we talk about him at night, when most Serbian citizens take care of their health, by providing themselves with a basic dream. The proposed law, therefore, is also the result of this new Government copying school, because it is a failure to compile certain provisions of the already existing health care law and individual definitions relating to health, public health, and the principles of public health that are used in the various documents of international organisations dealing with the health system, from which they are extremely selectively taken over and as such do not contribute to the regulation of this area. Here are just a few examples that illustrate the serious shortcomings of this bill. First, Article 1 of the proposed law states that this law regulates the achievement of public interest by creating conditions for the preservation and improvement of the health of the population through comprehensive activities of society aimed at preserving the physical and mental health of the population, preserving the environment and working environment, preventing the emergence and impact of risk factors for health, illness and injury, manner and procedure, as well as conditions for the organisation and implementation of public health. This definition of Article 1 represents the practical takeover of part of the definition of public health as set out in Article 119. The Health Protection Act, which leaves out the part relating to the way in which this public interest is achieved and the taking over of the already mentioned Article 122, paragraph 2 of the same law, so that it is not clear in the first article what is actually governed by this law. Don't laws usually provide for public interest? Doesn't the concept of public health mean public interest? Isn't Article 122(2) of the current Health Protection Act predetermined what should be regulated by this law? Article 2 of the proposed text of the law gives an explanation of the meaning of certain terms used in this law. But in a very unusual way, some points of this article state the meaning of some expressions that are not later in the text of the law, such as action for the health of the community, health behavior, health differences, health inequalities, health gaps, public health system, so it is not clear why the meaning of the terms that are not in the text of the law itself is explained at all. On the other hand, the text of the Bill appears in certain terms whose meaning is not explained, such as social health, public health, public health, public health, public health, public health, and the like. What's the area of public health? What is a public health system, and which ensures in this law that this area functions as a system? Is that really enough to say that the law is incomplete, vague, foggy, confusing and unspeakable? At the same time, in paragraph 12, it is said that public health is a social activity that seeks to improve health, extend life and improve the quality of life of the total population, and through the promotion of health, prevention of disease and other forms, which of course causes further confusion in defining the very meaning of public health. It is necessary to conclude that it is impossible in the right way to regulate a particular area if that area, or even the notion in the same law, is defined in a number of different ways. In this Article 2 in different points, the expressions "capital" and "population" are used in a language inconsistencies, so that in certain points this "population" is used, as in 12) and 18), and in another "population", which also applies to the terms "mental" and "physical health". The provisions of Article 3 of the most important part repeat the general principles of health protection under the Health Protection Act, which implies that it is applied in the field of public health, and in the provisions of Articles 5 and 6 of the social care for health at the level of the Republic, the Autonomous Province and the City, which is also already contained in the provisions of the Health Protection Act. To keep from spending this time on a principle debate, because there will be still times when we talk about the law in particular, what I have to ask as a question, because I am the guidelines of research by the Ministry of Health, which show that the state of health in Serbia is quite pathetic, is - will this new law on public health be resolved deaths, i.e. a small chronology of death in 2009? Let me remind you, on 9 June 2009, a female baby died in a hospital in Valjevo. Parents, Lela and Sinisa Teodosic, accused doctors and filed criminal charges against a private office that led Lelina's pregnancy. June 4th, a 16-month-old boy from Borca died of brain inflammation at the Institute of Mother and Child after three weeks of coma. He was in a difficult state admitted to the Institute on 11 May, since in a private office in Borca, the doctor found that there was nothing dangerous. May 27, 16-month-old Natalija Tesic died of meningitis at the University Children's Clinic in Tirsho Street in Belgrade, where she was sent to treatment only after three reviews at the Novi Belgrade Health House. The case once again raised the issue of detecting and punishing medical errors. In April 19, the family of Olivera Veljic, 39, died after amputating her leg and several surgical interventions at the Kragujevac Clinical Centre, after 22 days of struggle for life. There's still no official medical inspection report on the second emergency control. April 26, the male baby Anela Lojanica, a 31-year-old woman from Kragujevac, died in the Kragujevac Clinical Centre after complications at birth. In one of these latest cases related to the death of a baby who has been transferred to Tirshovo from the New Belgrade health home with a delay, the health minister has probably extended his official trip to Canada from accumulated stress to vacation. As a psychologist, I can understand the reaction of avoiding unpleasantness and responsibility, but if in the first term he could complain that he had inherited a bad condition, everything further he inherited from himself. He inherits his previous condition and indeed has no predecessor to be taken out of. What is also a fact that the Minister of Health would have to visit these patients in the homes of health, to look, as in that song – Look at the home of his angel, because if Putin can go to visit the supermarkets and see how these are increased prices of certain items, what would be wrong with Minister Tomica to go to health and hospital homes, where people have to go four months ahead to schedule a check-up at their doctor's clinic and to get another 300 people in waiting rooms on the 15th of the month, to push that check-in schedule. Do you really think we don't see what's going on? Do you think patients can't talk and see what's actually been done to them? Here is a letter from Milos Jovanovic, a longtime blood donor, which is our next law on transfusiological activity, which is bitter when he learned that tooth extraction and repairs in the country's health home must pay at the prices prescribed and for the work of private offices. The man says, for that country, I've given blood almost 100 times, how many lives I've saved, and they pay me back like this, that I pay, and drug dealers and alcoholics don't pay. People, who gave more for that health care than me who gave free blood? It is not the solution to make animosity for people who fall into the category of disease addiction, but it is indeed a question – why are voluntary donors of blood, students, unemployed, not free of payment? In this law on transfusiological activity, you are talking about the need to work on motivation and promotion of blood and blood components. What kind of enhanced motivation and promotion is this when at least a minimum act of goodwill cannot be shown? The organ transplant law, the right theme for this time of three in the morning, when most of Serbia, instead of horror films, now have the Assembly, says this – the principle of availability and prohibition of discrimination provides equal opportunities for transplanting to all organ recipients, regardless of the years of life. Outstandingly written, but do you ministers know that in practice it's hard even to provide blood for people who are 60 years of age and beyond? Do you know how many times people in the transfusion offices have been forced to change the age of the patient who is operating so that there are no more 45, but to be 65, to make it more clear that that person's blood will get? It's the minister who gives permission to perform transplant operations, god on earth. In article 27, it says this - there is a ban on organ trafficking. It's perfectly normal, of course, but how come the government's support of the minister, the government where you're sitting, Biden, the sponsor of human organ trafficking? It is also forbidden to trade blood and blood components, so it is traded. How many times has it happened for relatives to show up to give blood to someone who's had surgery, so that blood goes somewhere else in some magical way? The law on cell and tissue transplants; I really think it's necessary to inform citizens what it's really about, about the achievements of regenerative medicine, because this is one of the most important issues. There are also ethical problems related to the collection of stem cells from umbilical blood, but there are also new knowledge that stem cells can be taken from tissues taken out of the brains taken out, by Japanese scientists on that. What's very interesting here is that the Ministry prescribes the methods and conditions of taking and keeping stem cells from the cot or the umbilical cords of the newborn, of course...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24601	Mrs. Jankovic, time's up. If you want to finish, from the time of your group, you can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24602	I will. You have here, Minister, pointed out that every pregnant woman's doctor should explain the importance of keeping these precious cells, because in case of need they can be used to treat both children and family members. What was interesting to me was that cells taken from the umbilicals right after the birth of the child, until a national bank was formed, can only be kept abroad and at the expense of parents. Now guess where they're being held. Serbs are kept in The Hague, the Netherlands, and Serbian stem cells in Belgium and the Netherlands. It's kind of an ideal place to keep it. Finally, this law on the treatment of infertility through biomedical assisted fertilisation. Of course, again, it is a very important law and it is extremely inappropriate to discuss it in these tiny hours, by the way, before it is a serious problem that Serbia faces, which is stopping the white plague. It is understood that this treatment of infertility by biomedically assisted fertilisation should be free of charge. Another thing that is very important, when we talk about this law, consider the formation of sperm banks and egg cells. So far, it has been possible to fertilize, and for women, it was possible to donate eggs to countries that have laws that regulate it, such as Slovenia, the Czech Republic, etc. We recently passed this law on the ban on discrimination, so if there is no such ban on discrimination, I think we should allow that, besides the sperm banks, the banks of the egg cells are foreseen in our country. Furthermore, the fact is that private and state practices are not only not yet even, but there are serious problems that privates are rebelling, not because they want to know what to get away with, however, the right to deal with this business implies that you respect the Hippocratic oath and that you have agreed to one extremely non-profit activity. But the introduction of these various fiscal cash registers for private people and ultimately for public services, and especially for private people, only introduces a new administration system and new complications that make it impossible for these people to do their job in a quality way without talking about producers that have a monopoly on these registers. There's another problem that's related to getting and restoring a doctor's license. Namely, doctors need to collect a number of points to get a license, or to restore it later. The number of points depends on the doctor's participation in various symposiums, conventions. In doing so, if, for example, it's a specialist salary, let's take about 60,000 dinars, a quotation at no cost for any other seminar, and that's 11,000 here in the country. In what way and who will be allowed to collect enough points for renewal, or obtaining a license, if there is such a problem that those who are really interested in professional training pay? Of course, this global economic crisis is once again a good rationalization for the fact that there are no jobs opening in hospitals, no training, no extension of the contract for a certain time, all the happiness and the global economic crisis has come, because I don't know how to justify it otherwise. All in all, public health in Serbia is really at the level of public service, with citizens here having the right to know everything, and the little problem with this part of the knowledge is that your mistakes, Mr. Minister, are quite visible and visible. And other people are wrong, you can't be perfect, but what's the fact is that your mistakes here are in front of us, underground or there's a transfer to the other world, and for that someone has to take responsibility. The health care system in Serbia needs to be improved, we cannot talk about such advanced variants as the laws on tissue cell transplants, while some primary health care is not provided to each individual citizen of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24603	Mr. Žarko Korać has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24604	Madam President, Mr. Minister, in my presentation, since five laws have been proposed, I would share because I think I have a different relationship with them and I would say that for each one of them there are different issues. As regards the first public health law, it had to follow, of course, because Article 122(2) of the applicable Health Protection Act and said that the procedure and conditions of public health implementation would be established and regulated by a special law. That's promised and that, if I may say so, is a legal obligation. However, my problem is that I would like to know what a concept of public health law is. If this is a law that follows from two laws already passed, which are basic laws, it is in December 2005 the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act, if it came out of that obligation, then I really cannot see this law differently but as a series of general places that do not have any particular binding value. I'll give some examples in that case and I really don't see the meaning of this law. If the meaning of this law is what I would like you to think of as me, that's actually a basic law, because it actually defines public health, then we have a problem here that these two previous laws, on health care and on health insurance, have practically already set the basics of the system, so we have a problem with passing system or basic laws, since two laws have already defined that system. That's what it is now, there it is, but the public health law is full of general places. I'll just give you a few examples. I don't have any particular remark that it's incorrect or incorrect, I'm not saying it at all, I'm just saying it's very hard to guess how we can go on with these definitions. For example, Article 17, which should regulate capacity building of health institutions performing public health activities and other public health participants, says that "provides are provided for the construction and equipment of health institutions operating in the field of public health, in relation to medical and non-medical equipment, means of transport, equipment in the area of the integrated information system, conditions regarding professional staff, as well as means for other obligations laid down by law". However, I would expect the law to say more precisely, who provides the means, in what way, for which commitments, for which programmes. Of course, you're going to say that this is a general provision, but it's too general to have any more significant, binding significance for those who are responsible. In Article 20, when it is said, too indefinitely, public health financing, it is otherwise taken literally from the Health Protection Act, Article 159 of that law, and constitutes a very general provision on how to obtain funds for the operation of all health institutions, and as such is insufficient and unnecessary. Here you should probably say what is being provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, what from the province, what from the local budget, for which, for which programmes, for which services. If the law, I say once again, is such a general character, then it has no practical value, and then questions are asked why we need such a law, except that it is an obligation. I'd like to maybe bring in something here that's otherwise avoided, to define how the health budget is secured, how it's formed, where borders can move and something like that. Once again, in Article 25, which is otherwise a standard formulation in many laws, in this sense is not different, it is said that "sublegal acts implementing this law will be adopted within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this law". I'm sorry, that's where it was meant to say what sublegal acts are, just to count those acts because then it makes sense to have such a member, otherwise only to say "acts will be brought" it's highly undefined, we don't know what acts, which are precisely thought and the like. In the end, I end up with it, I didn't want it, it's already mentioned here, but the very definition of public health has been taken over in general from one definition of the previous Health Protection Act. When I started reading that bill, I had a problem with the fact that it was already said once and that it only happens in some broader formulations here, so for me, there's still a problem with what we're going to do with this law. I really don't see any practical value in this law. From that point of view, I must say that our parliamentary group will not vote for this law because it does not see its meaning. As far as the law on transfusiological activity, organ transplants and cell and tissue transplants are concerned, we believe that the Ministry did a good job of submitting these laws. We think that's justifiable. We think it was a need to bring it. We think it's one area that wasn't legally regulated with us. Even our citizens know that, even in the media, that's what they're talking about. For the first time now, we have a legal framework for a very important action that concerns the health of Serbian citizens and in this regard we support what the Ministry has proposed, its initiative and we support the proposed texts of the law. My question to Mr. Minister or to someone from the Ministry who wants to answer, this is where the biomedicine administration is proposed, and now it's a matter of principle that we don't quite understand. The biomedicine administration is being held in the authority of the state administration, i.e. the Ministry, and has quite broad powers. Some European tendency, if we have interpreted it well, that these institutions are relatively independent, precisely because they are another kind of institution that represents the interests of citizens, public health interests etc., and here it finds itself in its own ministry, in the government itself, and in some way, we can discuss it, under its control. We have found it precisely because of the importance of these questions that it might be good if the position of that administration had been set differently. It's not about that administration as defined, it's defined quite broadly and it was quite necessary to define it, it's a correct definition, it's a place where it's located, which is its status in relation to the Ministry, in relation to society, etc. Finally, in this general section, this fifth law that was proposed for out-of-body insemination, it seems to me, personally, I'm sorry that the promoter didn't go one step further and anti-cipe everything that's going to happen in our society at the most recent time. I think Minister Milosavljevic said in the opening statement that this was put exclusively in the context of the treatment of infertility, but there are, of course, some broader, larger issues. It is also said here that the position of the profession, I suppose from some public debates, that this issue should not be opened, but in the meantime, a law against discrimination has been passed, perhaps some other sublegal acts have been passed, and it seems to me that it should have been much more flexible here, that I should not pursue an argument, which is likely to draw my colleagues from other parliamentary groups and a low birth rate in Serbia, but not as the basic rights of a woman, or human rights, but here still maintains a paternal attitude in relation to a woman, that someone else can decide whether she wants to have a child, does not want, under what conditions of birth, I do not think that society has any rights. I'm going to say my very clear position right now, and I believe that a woman is sovereign in that kind of decision-making and that no one can determine such things for her. It's her sovereignty. I'm sorry that this law, which we didn't, didn't take that step further and regulated that area the way it would look. It is at this point a great topic, in very organized societies with highly developed medicine it is this debate, I am fully aware of it. But we chose one safer way to say it regulates, and the right thing to do is to propose, the law is fine, but it only regulates infertility problems. So harmlessly this thing is regulated, but it has to be defined in the way it's defined, and that's whether someone wants to go through artificial insemination or another way to give birth to a child. Why would this be put in the context of marriage and similar matters? Why should we restrict a woman in this regard, since, if that's the subject, we can discuss that too, I think that some fundamental rights might be endangered as well as this. Once again, we do not see the need for such a public health law. To be honest, we're suggesting he back down. We concluded, after a very careful analysis, that giving the amendment won't help much. We have formally given some two amendments just to illustrate once again some completely undefined members of that law. As for the law on transfusiological activity and especially organ transplants, cell and tissue transplants, we believe that this is justified by this initiative, that it is the formulated law that is right. We're only sorry that management was set up the way it was set up. We're opening the question of why it's so set up. We'd like to hear an explanation. As for this out-of-body insemination thing, we will support it since it is the first legal regulation in the area. We can't be against being regulated legally, but we're kind of sorry that she didn't show up here, but this is some government that, as I say, leads faster and democratically, at least in its declarative position, I don't doubt, wants to lead our country faster, to change her. I think we need to open that question. We have a lot of educated people, they travel around the world, they read, they look at the media, and they know this is regulated differently. To be interesting, the main opponents of this are, in fact, often in the most conservative and ecclesiastical circles. They're actually the ones that limit this, not within the societies themselves, and inside, if I may say, the healthcare system of health workers, so if you want the whole public. At this point, fortunately, we don't have that in Serbia. It is only now that this dilemma will be opened, and I have no doubt that many conservatives will be against it, but it should be on the side of those who lead society forward, not those who want to stone it, stop it, and those who constantly determine whether to give birth to a woman, when she can bear, under what conditions she can give birth. I still think it's a debate that defines conservatives and liberals or progressive people in one society, or whether you're on the side of a woman, or, as they say in conservative circles, on the side of the fruit. that you determine his fate, not his wife, sovereignly. Once again, for the first law, we have a skepticism and we don't see any need for it except the legal obligation that has been fulfilled here, but a lot of general places aren't defined and we don't see their purpose. As for these four laws, with certain repairs, amendments, especially the fifth law, we would be willing to support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24605	The word is made by MP Zoran Bortic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24606	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, respected ministers, representatives of the ministry, esteemed fellow MPs, despite the fact that there are more than 170 regulations in the Republic of Serbia that directly or indirectly refer to public health, which regulate the area of health care, health insurance, protection of the population from infectious diseases, etc., until now there was no law on public health, which regulates the area as a continent. For the adoption of such a law, there is also a constitutional basis in Article 97 of the 10th current Serbian Constitution, which found that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides a system in the area of health. The health care law of Article 122(2) requires that the way and procedure, as well as the conditions for the organisation and implementation of public health, be governed by a special law. In addition to the above mentioned legal obligations, the adoption of public health laws is also necessary because of clearly defined areas and compliance with EU rules. The first steps to comply with EU public health regulations were made by adopting a Sustainable Development Strategy and a Public Health Strategy adopted on 17 March 2009. The public health strategy is to support the fulfillment of social care for health, to provide conditions in which people can be healthy. It forms the basis of measures taken by the government as part of actions to improve the health and quality of life of the population of the Republic of Serbia. This bill can be defined as a set of legal relations between rights and obligations, through which the state provides conditions for the health of the population and limits autonomy, privacy, ownership or other legally protected interests of individuals, with the aim of safeguarding and promoting health in general. This law regulates the achievement of public interest, the creation of conditions for the preservation and improvement of the health of the population, the preservation of the environment and the working environment, the prevention of the emergence and impact of risk factors for health, illness and injury, ways and procedures, as well as conditions for the organisation and implementation of public health. The law also defines certain concepts with a view to better understanding of the text, and public health is recognised as a realisation of public interest. The law also lays down the principles applicable to public health. It should be said that identifying public health functions is an ongoing topic around the world and that state and international health organisations are making huge efforts to improve their ability and seek to explicitly identify key problems. Thanks to this identification over the past decade, many countries have defined the basic functions of their public health system. As part of such objectives, the draft law regulates the social concern for public health at the level of the Republic, the AP and units of local self-government and divides and divides competences in the field of social care for public health. In this way, the principle of decentralisation has been halted in ensuring social care for health through respecting the specificities and needs of the population. The law also provides for cross-sectoral co-operation and guidance in the field of public health in a given territory. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, within the framework of the health care system, the law on transfusiological activity is one of the most important, in my deep conviction, because this law regulates one of the most sensitive activities within this system. In fact, transfusiological activity has been embossed with the most specific form of health care and rests on a very high degree of volunteering, solidarity of people, which is giving their own blood to preserve the lives and health of others. That is why this area should indeed be regulated according to the world's highest democratic standards, because without defining the planning, collection, testing, conservation and distribution of blood, which is intended to transfuse the population, our country would not have the level of health and life that highly developed countries have, and especially EU countries. The adoption of this law aims to establish new more standards of health institutions that carry out transfusiological activity, but also to provide adequate amounts of safe blood and its components in our country. The aim is to ensure national self-satisfaction in providing safe blood and its components and high professional professional level and technological training to all complex transfusiological activity chains. Patients, as end-users, will receive standard conditions to provide them with quality and safe blood, i.e. the component of the blood collected, tested, produced, distributed and issued in accordance with the highest medical standards. The law introduces a single register of blood donors, which represents significant progress in legal regulation of transfusiological activity. Unfortunately, in my opinion, voluntary blood donors are completely neglected by this law, and we all know that they represent a pillar of the transfusiological system and that without their solidarity any effort in the area of security of precious fluid would be difficult to resolve. In other words, our country, without voluntary donors, would be forced to use blood or imports from abroad, or that the liquid that life means comes by some other commercial means, which would also match the basic principles of medical ethics. So I think this law had to valorize voluntary donors and make them a fundamental pillar in transfusiological activity, which they actually did. Otherwise, apart from this lack, I believe that this law in general is suitable for established standards in the modern international community. The adoption of organ transplant laws will put our country in line with highly organised states that establish normative and ethical standards in this, for many reasons, highly sensitive and controversial area of modern medicine. If there are any branches of medicine in which there can be inconspicuous consequences for human health, human safety, human life protection, then it's the area of human organ transplants. Therefore, the reasons for the adoption of the transplant law are more than convincing, since it systematically regulates the area of transplantation, i.e. the taking of organs or parts of organs from a living or dead person to transplant into the body of another person whose body is needed to preserve his life. The reason for the adoption of the law is also the need to carry out the organisation of health institutions carrying out transplant operations, to ensure supervision of the performance of these tasks, as well as to regulate other issues of importance for the organisation and transplantation of organs or parts of the oro. Only by law can standards be created which will be generalized to perform organ transplants in accordance with modern standards of medical science and practice. These standards are especially important because of the fact that the transplant is an area of medicine that develops intensively and offers great treatment opportunities and those diseases that are recently terminally incurable. The law will also create assumptions for promoting organ transplants at national and European level to inform and familiarise citizens with the importance of organ donation. By the way, the area of organ donation in our country is only immersed and this law creates real assumptions that the need for organ donation is developing among citizens to the extent that this consciousness has been developed in voluntary blood donors. I would like to point out that this law is in line with the European Union rules in this area, and that the area of tissue and cells is governed by a special law in line with the recommendation of the EU Commission to regulate the area of tissue and cell transplantation by a special law, independent of the organ transplant law. The law also introduces the institution of an ethnic committee in any health institution carrying out transplant operations. This Committee shall give its consent to the taking of an organ from a living donor on the basis of an insight into medical documentation, give an opinion on ethical and other issues in the transplant process and carry out other tasks under the proposal of the body transplant coordinator and at the level of the request of the ethnic biomedicine committee established in the biomedicine administration. The law accurately defines the process of transplanting and regulates the volunteering of the organ, the written consent of a full-time recipient, the written consent of a minor, or the recipient who has been deprived of the business capacity, the republican waiting list for the transplant of the development body for treatment, the prohibition of obtaining benefits from giving, receiving, or transplanting, the prohibition of advertising, or advertising, the ban on organ trafficking, the prevention of the risk of transmission of the disease, the financing of the transplant process, the monitoring of serious adverse reactions, as well as serious adverse events. The law also introduces an official secret, which introduces the use of data on the donor and recipient and their personalities, data storage and medical documentation, notification of the biomedicine administration and standard operating procedures and guides of good practice. The law also promotes voluntary organ donation and stipulates that the ministry responsible for health affairs is promoting voluntary organ donation and that the programme for the promotion is brought by the health minister. In general, the proposal for this law significantly norms this highly sensitive area of modern medicine and is in line with the modern EU rules governing this area. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in addition to the constitutional and legal basis for the adoption of the law on cell and tissue transplants, the proposal for the text that is before us is contained in a special law in line with the EU Commission's recommendations that the area of cell and tissue transplantation be regulated by a special law, independent of the organ transplant law. In a set of health care laws that we are discussing at this session of the Assembly, in my deep conviction, the most significant proposal for a law on the treatment of infertility is the procedures of biomedically assisted insemination. This law is significant for a number of reasons, and I will point to only a few of them. First of all, it is known that Serbia is plagued by the white plague and that we are becoming a country of old people and that with the average age we belong to the oldest nations in the world. Secondly, the social opportunities of the past decades, especially NATO bombings, the ecological and climate effects that war destruction has left on our country, have affected the alarming phenomena of total or partial sterility among our citizens of both sexes. Third, the transition crisis that we are going through, which results in a drastic poverty of a large number of people, social imperceptibility and uncertainty, and many other phenomena that destroy our families are increasingly leading to people in a fertilized age refraining from having children and trying to increase their family just at the end of that period. Unfortunately, they often face the terrible fact that in the meantime they have become completely or partially sterile. All of these phenomena bring Serbia into a position not only of ageing population but of total devastation and disappearance of entire settlements daily. These vicious facts create an Orvelovic perspective, on which our country, if it does not take energy measures, will soon be almost empty. As a result, and not only because of this, the draft law on the treatment of infertility by the biomedically assisted fertilisation procedures is a necessary effort by the state to take normative and all other measures to stop the systemic extinction of its population. In addition to this significant assumption of law-making, nothing is less important than the fact that this law, according to the highest European standards, will be sanctioned and all kinds of known and at this time unpredictable abuses and manipulations that follow this very sensitive branch of modern medicine. So that I don't owe, in the end, I want to wish the Ministry of Perseverance a lot of success in these laws and, as far as the SPS-JS Parliament Club is concerned, we will vote on these laws in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24607	The word is from Dr. Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24608	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to express my dissatisfaction with the fact that in just three minutes to six, you caught us leaving with this law. The minister was there as Horatio somewhere behind the curtain, he flew in, and we're on our way. It is not at all a dilemma whether MPs can endure, but the fact that it is a group of laws that do not really cover a wide population, but cover an interesting and significant circle of difficult patients or those whose future depends on how laws are implemented and implemented. The fact that this will be talked about here in front of a half-empty hall, and that what representatives, elected people, the people's will that represent, talked about, almost no one will be available in the rerun period that goes on, talking about the discretion of the fact that they want to go into an emergency procedure, and then someone has to be told, we have to pass 23 laws now until the beginning of the Parliament's rest and that everything is somehow done at speed. It is difficult then to convince the MPs and citizens that the intention to pass laws that are European and well-oriented can be simultaneously wrapped up in a rapid rhythm, the pace of continuous dependence on adoption, the simple pursuit of the captain to do something, past some logical procedure, some dignity, not the dignity of the Assembly that we are happy to talk about here when we qualify for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but the dignity of the act of passing important laws. So it's unnecessarily accelerated that way, which is why we're talking to an empty auditorium. We're not talking, I repeat it for myself, although most of us have had the necessary consultations with the people of the profession when it comes to this. So did I, and I know it was spent so-called. Public debate, I'd rather say an expert discussion of people who felt the need, the obligation, the warrant, nowhere in particular written, to come and hear what the people of the Ministry of Law will say. Neither were these overly eloquent discussions, nor were these over-visited gatherings. So maybe it was an opportunity to talk here in a broader way when there really are more doctors and more competent people. It's certainly about important laws, and these laws aren't like that they haven't made a single move. They must have put some order into the procedure, in the process, something in Serbia has become official. We were almost asked every night to watch TV advertise potential and current centres that would deal with some segment of the transplant. We used to really wonder if it was possible, a propaganda trick, whether it was advertising, whether it was promotion, the law regulated it, too. Of course, we're asked what's advertising, what's promotion, sometimes that thin border is hard to separate. And personally, we don't mind public speaking of it, of people being motivated, of going on a voluntary donation of patients' organs. I'm going to focus mostly on these two laws regarding cell donations, organs and tissues, my colleague is going to talk about other segments, etc., and we're going to sort this out. We have analyzed these laws in our MP group and seen that many things have not been fully defined, although I say, there is an intention and can't be said that some Semantic has not been achieved, that no termological trace of things has been achieved, that defined participants in the process of transplanting, their names, positions, meaning is known. But if everything is best done here, it's a question we probably won't agree on, and we've therefore submitted some decent number of amendments, because it really wasn't possible to change all the amendments simply, all the members we think of. They would simply not suffer without a fundamental change of law, and of course the government would not agree. In an analysis of what we found reading the law and in the preparation phase while it was on the public site, while it now came in the final version, we noticed some things that we think we need to change. Let's say we go after some growing numbers from how licenses are issued. We really understand that the institution has to get permission and someone has to prescribe it. However, when creating conditions as well as who can get permission to carry out the transplant process, it has different segments. We see that it is quite logical for different institutions to get different volumes of capacity, different volume or number of permits for different parts of the process in the complete process of transplanting, which some institutions can indeed fully satisfy. So if it is put on such conditions, such criteria, which sometimes concern personnel structures, technical equipment, spatial equipment, not sometimes, but always, will be defined for different levels and should be prescribed by the minister. We believe, although we are not at the end of the clear definition of the administration, that it was more useful for the administration to do so, even though the number of members of the others, other than the Director, does not suspect, if we do not count the Ethics Committee, etc. How many will they be, who will be distinguished? Some doctors have told me that it would be convenient for the president, the director of the administration to be a truly experienced man, an experienced person with a knowledge of problems, as people say, in a small finger, to teach a younger doctor who is experienced in the affairs of transplants, typings, and that ultimately Serbia is shown to have a national transplant institution. Maybe if it wasn't called management, because bureaucratic sounds, it might have been a different name, but about that one. The release and withdrawal of the permit, we'll meet with that collapsing. As foreseen by the law, someone will assess the work of the institution inside, and we also have a coordinator on whose appointment is asked by the minister. The coordinator will send a report to the administration that his team, how his health care facility functions in the segment for which he is in charge, and then the administration will give the minister a proposal if it is worth it to someone or someone to take the right to have his permission restored or taken before the time or not renewed. And that's where you ask a series of moral questions. If we look in general, we intend to encourage giving, to encourage a life-long donation, to encourage if someone is in a position for the authorities to gain more easily, and then meet a series of formal obstacles that the law itself has passed, and we at least see them as such, and expect that by accepting the amendments some of these assumptions can, as well as in any law in Serbia, because Serbs are able to do so, to abuse and to create a counterproductive situation from a good idea. For example, the state of issue and withdrawal, someone may be in point 5) because of results that are not satisfactory or assessed as such in point 5) that they do not acquire the right, because their comparable results are not in a ranking with another institution. If we watch closely now that all of Serbia's centres are running to do some of the transplant jobs and in this, God forbid, start and measure with those who have long been in the process, it is unlikely that despite all the positive reports that the coordinator is going to send, it may come to someone's attention to evaluate them as insufficiently qualified, not sufficiently competent, not enough good results, although by the act of obtaining the same people's permits, these same teams have spatial, humane conditions, have sophisticated equipment for that part of the transplant process they are in charge of. We think that this point should simply be deleted, because the points in front of it are sufficiently, in a qualified, clear, descriptive way, saying what might be the reason why someone's permission should not be renewed and taken away. I'm talking about the coordinator, and the coordinator is the man who's proposing the director, and the minister's beefing him up. Is there a need for the minister, I don't know how many such teams will be around Serbia, such centres, but now four or five of them will be more, why bring the minister into this? Let's go if we want management, because management has and these are colleagues who work in the profession, so maybe the director of the administration or administration or otherwise on the proposal of the director, but let the director, let the team head decide who will be the coordinator. I don't know why there'd be a mystery here. There is a reasonable doubt that just as the directors of health homes so far, hospital directors will be politically defined and that we will find that they are capable of being on such a serious team of transplants. It's gonna be hard to find someone from the DS at a lower-ranking executive function, not to talk to other people, and they can be competent. That just opens up the question why the minister and coordinator? We ask this question because the coordinator can send excellent reports, and then the administration and the minister together will assess that what he writes about his institution is subjective, it's not so good, and he won't get permission. For example, in Article 16, is the coordinator, I don't understand the law, member of the team, or is he not a member of the team? And which team is a member, whether the team that prepares the transplant, which participates in the transplant, in the implantation or typing, any segment. If he's a prominent expert, and I guess the coordinator must be, too bad he's not on the team. If he's on the team, he'll be objective again when he makes a report on who he belongs to. It may say that somewhere, but I haven't found it clear, decades-long how it stands with that man, what that person will be, and how much that will be, when he's head of the team for a part of the job he's doing, he can be co-ordinator and director of the facility, etc. He's got a corner of everything, plus an inspection check, not that he's writing everything, three months, a year reporting, and eventually his paper ends up untrustworthy and not enough reference. I think it's okay that Articles 18 and 19 highlight volunteering and nonprofit in the transplant process, just the question that sometimes there's no point in law enforcement, especially there, which I'll talk about later, when some consent is withdrawn or approved, is there a trap waiting for us to get into the problem of so-called. trade and illicit business with authorities. The alignment of the local and republican waiting lists shall be processed by Article 23. Indeed, if each local environment, a local health institution that deals with segments, part of the process in the transplant process, creates its own ranking list, so either it will be able to do so, whether it has the right to any priority of an institution that deals only with the determination of brain death and implantation, whether it has any right to have any personal, own, institutional priority, one that deals only with tissue typeing or only one that performs a complete procedure, of course including kidney transplantation. And let it all come down to that group, that those who transplant and perform the whole procedure can, of course, not the same teams, that I understand, must have the obligation to bring it into line with the single republican ranking list. Now, when the Republic's unique ranking list is created, the administration is asking about it, the minister is making a final court, but we don't have the criteria in law. And why don't we have the criteria, so we know if any of that's the most important criterion. It happens, I know some experiences earlier, that they go away sometimes three or four patients to wait for one kidney, a donor of course cadaverical, and now judgments of the year, a similar number of compatible skulls, so the judgments of the year, the judgment of youth, might be an emotional influence when you don't always have any other reason, because they've all made a decent health condition. I know it was severe emotional stress for the patients who came back saying - the doctor must have been bought, he must have taken the money, so he put the older one on me, I'm young or younger, etc. We know from the file that it might have been logical to do so. She didn't carry her own risk factor for a transplant. I'm talking about long-term memories. It's not the minister's period of activity. It's got all the gaps you want. I'm saying there's a possibility that this law could possibly put some indeterminates in a situation like this. Why, then, is the law not setting out important and basic, key criteria that must be respected the visual importance of those who come? The great competence will be, 4,500 only dialysis patients have, of course, only 10% of them prepared vasad, at any time, candidates, so it's a huge number for such poorly developed donor activity. In this second law, which I would like to mention a little bit, the minister can authorise another health institution or a cell bank that can be private sector, private ownership and be entrusted with the business of forming a republican public register. Here we remain under the inquiry of how something can be found, so that there is no mechanism of clear control, except the criminal provisions when it is determined. But the question is, you're already in the law of banning trade, Article 28, giving some chance to some health care professional that he suspects it might be about trade. It's a serious thing. Someone decided to give a kidney, it's a donor. If he's a living donor, he's got an address man to whom he'll give, if it's an implanted kidney from cadaver, then he'll be suspicious of whether someone on the transplant team is going to be able to do business in an unfounded way or not. He then interrupts the transplant procedure, some segment, some link of that fast, express, very valuable time range, interrupts and goes to complain to the director, the team chief, even perhaps informs the police. Is that a little risky? Was he supposed to have justifiable evidence, strong, powerful evidence? Look out, someone who takes an organ will lose their organs if they're allowed. What if someone is disturbing a health care professional – go report it, they're waiting here with money, it's probably some kind of smuggling, let them stutter, see it up there, there's something going on here, and that organ doesn't end up where it's supposed to be, but it goes to someone else. So when you give the possibility to a healthcare professional, a doctor, a nurse, a technician, who is, a laborer, but writes a health worker, doesn't even write a health associate, then maybe it's too liberal and we've also tried to change the way we act to fix it, so we don't stage that doubt on rare occasions. It's simple, we're very careful because we see that anything can be staged, anything can be done and there's no end to caution. Keeping deadlines, probably if it's part of the Eurotransplant or other reference laws, I think they're very long, 30 plus 12 months, 30 years and 12 months, but if that's the case in European practice, we have no objections. I literally didn't pick on it, but it's just too much time, because usually the length of a graph's life can hardly be 30 years. That sometimes, I can't talk about a patient, he can theoretically have that length, but the graph weighs heavily 30 years of transplants or are very rare situations. In the donation of organs by living donors, there are several places in several members that define some kind of intimate, personal relationship that is obvious to everyone. You know, all of this can be staged and arranged if there's a store and a deal about giving someone an organ for money, a living donor. It's hard, I know it's very difficult to solve this problem, but these definitions, which are kind of literary, which are optional, can't prevent it. Perhaps in the context of what was offered by law, it could have been done, let's judicially be another instance, that this testimony would be given to the ethical committee, which would have led to those members signing there that the documentation was correct and everything, somehow obliged to testify, if not judicially, that this thing, if it could, in some way, be prevented, because it's hard to prove it. We've known each other for two years, we're very good friends, and here, I'll give him my kidney. This institution remains unclear to us, and when it is inserted into a member, it can be a subject of restraint, sometimes really good intentions. I know them, I know them, it's a clean deal, it's rich, it needs this, it needs that, ever since those friends, who's seen them together, where they've been, where they've been flying, what they've been doing, they haven't, that's the deal. So, the risk point you might need to find, I've made some suggestions about how I think it can be solved, that apart from some impression of subjective there might be a little bit stronger. The Ethics Committee and informing the living donor. You see, now that these living donors are moving into the consent procedure that someone known in advance that the kidney, of course, is doing different medical procedures before that and that man who wants it, this good man, good intentions, we're talking about the most normal circumstances, has to go through some series of conversations with two doctors, one who's not involved, as I understand, is not involved in the process of taking and transplanting, and he gives this donor some information about everything that the doctor is involved with. Between the two talks, he signs written consent. At least members are hierarchically complex like that. We think it's logical to perform it, that a doctor who isn't a doctor is not an interested party, a team doctor, and then a doctor from a transplant team, the one who's going to directly transplant the organ to the other. I guess there's one that's gonna blow up and the other one's gonna transplant. It is not overly clear, but one is not involved, participates in the process of taking and transplanting. This second party, although they are not the same as usual, is not the same as the one who takes the organ and the one who places the organ in the patient, they are different teams. And it's a little bit illogical as it's been put on -- a health care worker who participates in the process of taking and transplanting reports to the donor the second time after the signed written statement that he wants to be a donor, and tells him -- you, when we take your kidney, you'll have that and that problem, the one you gave the kidney to, paraphrase, theoretically, you can have that, that and that. Don't we ever think we're gonna scare somebody off? Take a kidney, and he cancels you, and he's throbing a vein, and this one, and that one. Let's settle this in a conversation that will happen before a man even signs, that he doesn't go into the signing process. He's got a chance to pull the signature, that's clear, but we kind of pulled it out somehow, etc. The establishment of brain death, I don't know what the minister should prescribe, these are things that are medically clear, they should be put into law, even if certain provisions are put into law, the brain death is that and that, the Commission forms a director of the hospital, does not have a minister, and this is the course of action that goes on. (President: Comrade Poscuica, it's been 20 minutes, will you continue? Please proceed from the time of the parliamentary group. I can extend it a little bit. Taking organs from a dead person. The phenomene of a life-long consent may be too fluid and too pushed aside. So, generally, if we want to favor giving and someone has given consent to be a donor for their lives, then it's illusory that we're starting a series of later questions about whether the deceased has changed his will. This should be regulated in some ways, but a series of questions, a question about how important it is and how difficult it will be or who will testify that he may have changed his will. It would be worth hearing about the variant of the written version if someone had changed their will and confirmed it, even if it was a willary variant, in court or in front of witnesses - I changed my will, children, relatives, my loved ones, I gave consent, now I am no longer in favour of it. It's a very problematic ban on recording. So, I don't want to give an organ, why would someone write it to me in a health book, why would they show up at the doctor's office tomorrow at the doctor's office, any specialist services, with a red stamped out as customs, no crossing the border, not a donor? In the beginning, it defies me the exercise of my rights. Maybe there's a doctor sitting there who's made an organ for himself and his whole family, and when he says look at this one, he won't plead for the organ. Why wouldn't it come down to... (President: Comrade Pocuric, the MPs detest. I thought you'd finish your thought. I'm gonna get this over with. Why not do so as an explicit command or desire given in the written version? Put me in the health book so I don't want to be an organ donor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24609	The word is from Ambassador Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24610	This is the eleventh hour we're working, it's a little hard to keep your concentration and have all your thoughts together about these laws. So, the first law I'd like to talk about, it's a public health law. What I'm trying to say at the beginning, is that I'm a term, the name of public health is a little obnoxious and vague. It's just, when someone reads who's not from this profession, they're going to open up a question to themselves, and that's -- is there something that's secret health? That's one dilemma. It's far more appropriate to call people's health, and we'll see why. Maybe there's a secret health. There may be this segment, but I'll explain later on when my discussion moves away what I mean. By observing this proposal for a public health law, one can't help but feel that this law is completely unnecessary. The DSS parliamentary group has not submitted any amendments to this law because it is simply impossible to fix. It is impossible to fix, because if you compare some of the titles of this law to the basic law, which is the Health Protection Act, you will see that these parts of the public health law are simply prescribed by the Health Protection Act. Let us begin by Article 4 of the 3rd principle of public health, simply comparing Article 19. The health care law. Mr. Minister, I know you weren't the creator of this public health law, that you weren't actively involved in the adoption of this law, but that songwriter simply had to have the Health Protection Act in front of him, to see that all that was in the Public Health Act exists in the Health Protection Act. Therefore, the principles of public health, Article 19. The health care law, just a moment to find it, speaks of the principles of health care. That's where these things are numbered. Social care for public health, Article 8. The health care law, it has the same title, says social care for the health of the population. Then social care for public health at the level of the Republic of Serbia, Article 9. The health care law. Further social concern for public health at the level of autonomous province and units of local self-government, Article 13. The health care law. And so, from member to member, from part to part of this law, you can see that it's all taken from the Health Protection Act. Now there's one question -- what's the point of this law, if we already have it all in one place? Even some of the provisions of this public health law are far more precise, far stronger, and far more thorough in the basic Health Protection Act. And there's another kind of problem. So, there's something called the law on the implementation of the Constitution. The basic question is - is the basic law, the Health Protection Act, and this law, which was in some way implemented by this health care law, in accordance with the Constitution? I'll read one provision of the Constitution that applies to that. Therefore, the provision of the law implementing the Constitution states, in Article 15, that by 31 December 2008, all other laws which do not comply with the Constitution are in line. So there was enough time for the basic law to comply with the Constitution, and it is not in some parts of it. So, it was supposed to be the Prime Minister's primary concern, and it was his obligation to bring us a declaration, not a list of good wishes, transfer of some responsibilities, loading obligations to local self-government on the adoption of certain programmes. This raises the question - how will the local self-government deal with the problem? Did Mr. Secretary see what the budget rebalance looked like? Did he see how much local self-government was denied for basic assets? Does he know how many local self-governments are going to announce bankruptcy at the end of the year? Do they need another one of these? It's completely unnecessary, and it already exists in basic law. This law is completely unnecessary, it would be best to withdraw from the procedure, it would be the most correct solution, because there is simply no need to consider such a law, because it cannot be fixed. The second fact about this law is certainly something that relates to the implementation of the new law. There's always a mention of funds, and that's where the key problem comes in. On several occasions, we tried with the Minister of Health to open the topic about how to finance health care, about meeting those basic principles and provisions of the Health Insurance Act regarding patients' rights. This conversation always ends very unpleasantly, because the minister did not have enough hearing or tact to listen to our remarks. The basics of this matter are the question - why do we not have a national health account. How much is spending in health care? How do these funds define themselves? So, as part of the budget, we get one material, and that is the proposal for a financial plan of health insurance. Do we as MPs have the opportunity to make any amendments to this draft budget of the Health Insurance Institute? We don't. Can we intervene in a way of distribution? We can't. What do we learn from these costs? We find that two-thirds of the funds are defined by secondary and tertiary levels, and one-third by primary, and we're publicly telling another story. It is a confirmation of this law, a public health concern, i.e. national health, and investments in the opposite direction entirely. What today in most of the media, which is printed, which is electronic, flows as a major topic, is corruption in health care. The problem has not been resolved at all, even moreover, by introducing evening clinics, paying off off-standard services, and we have information that patients in their non-standard service pocket in 2008 singled out over 28 billion dinars. I'm saying what was paid to state institutions. I'm not talking about those funds we don't have the exact information for, but it's estimated that over 300 million are paid into private offices, or private clinics. The minister spoke several times about the health deficit and appealed to state authorities, and we don't know the total amount. So are we in health care spending two billion euros or is that far more, or what's going on here? How is it possible that the funds charged by extra-standard services, amounting to more than 28 billion in 2008, are not shown in the budget of the Republic of Serbia? How has these funds been spent? Did that go to health care workers' salaries? Is that what went to renovate the facility? Did that go on the purchase of new appliances? So, about the fate of that money, we need to know, to know what it's really about spending in health care. As the minister returned, I will remind him again of the June 2002 date when he directly became a minister and refers to the transfusiological action law. One question asked by the minister at the time was -- there's one acute problem, there's no blood. Did you do something about it? The minister responds to the following - the problem of transfusions is important in our midst because we are the country that has the highest consumption of blood derivatives when compared to all surrounding countries. So we need a planned action of voluntary blood donation, we also need a national long-term programme that will eliminate these direct problems. The problem with lack of blood is always present. Now it's one of those situations. It will be one of the problems for which, under the auspices of the Ministry's institution, we will form an expert group that will analyse this from all possible aspects and there are indications of help in solving the problem, perhaps reorganisation. I'm talking about 2002. When the problem was initiated, when it was known, when it was spoken publicly, and we have in 2009, so for seven full years it took the minister to understand the problem and put the transfusion law on the agenda. Does it take seven years for the Minister of Health to understand this problem and propose, or refer the law to the National Assembly for consideration? When we considered certain laws, including the law on transfusions, the Health Committee held opinions and objections to this transfusion law somewhere in June 2009. One of the questions addressed to the representatives of the Ministry of Health was, and this is in the report of the Health Committee, when is the Ministry planning to put the draft law on transfusions before the Government and when will it be referred to the assembly procedure? We're talking about June this year. We didn't get a response from the Ministry's representative, and we knew he was in the process. Then you form our agenda for three days before the session, not informing anyone, so there is very little time left for MPs to prepare for a valid and constructive debate. The merger of the agenda points also speaks in favour of the fact that you simply do not want any serious discussion, but only to run through these laws, that these laws are not being discussed in one valid way and that this business is being abandoned. The whole point of it, the way it works, is to create an illusion. It seems that something is done at the Ministry of Health, and what is done at the Ministry of Health and what is the relationship of the Ministry of Health, or the whole system, with patients, is enough to look at several titles. Here, I have here a story in hand that I hope the minister will be able to explain -- "Milosavljevic criminally prosecutes the secretary of health." What's the point of that story? In her performance at the Belgrade City Assembly address, the secretary of health, said in a public statement that the health minister is the generator of health corruption. When you have such a relationship between two health leaders, then you wonder what's going on in that health care system, whether those stories are true or not? The second detail again concerning the law on transfusions, and that was the subject of the Committee on Health of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, is that the donors are without privileges. Is it possible that tens of thousands of people from various associations write performances to the Health Committee, the Ministry of Health, the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, stressing the importance of respect for such associations, pointing to the importance of promoting voluntary blood donation and seeking some fine benefits for themselves, because these are people of exceptional humanity, the minister of all these demands refuses. The third case I'm going to bring here certainly refers to something I've been saying in an exceptional opinion. These laws, which I said the DSS has nothing against them but public health and secret health laws, refer to the existence of an institution that protects patients' rights. The passing of these laws, as is the law on organ transplants, the law on transfusions, implies the adoption of a law that must be before these laws are passed, which is the law on the protection of the rights of the patient. What do we have in health care today? We have a protector of the rights of patients, who is the person who is employed in that facility, who receives the salary of that facility. Then when a patient feels that his rights are denied, not all of them are fulfilled by law prescribed by the health insurance and health care law, if he complains, he complains to the person who is employed in that institution, and that person has an interest in protecting the institution from which he receives the salary without protecting the patient's rights. Here's one valid reason why a law on the protection of the right of a patient should have been passed a long time ago. Not to mention other things, corruption in health care, and I certainly have to mention one point in the agenda of this assembly, which is a famous loan of 10 million and 500 000 euros for additional financing in health care. That's where the programs are mentioned. One of those programs certainly deserves attention. What's mentioned in that program? Fighting corruption. Is it possible that we're taking a loan from the International Bank to fight corruption in health care? Is that what we have? The minister, as far as I can tell, denies such a condition. What does this program say? In the end, with a few words, I'll go back to the public health law. I don't know if the minister has read the final part of the bill, so I'm going to read what's causing the emergency procedure for the adoption of public health laws. Please follow me closely. In order to make it more urgent to create conditions for ensuring a high level of health protection for citizens, i.e. establishing a single legal framework for the exercise of public health performance. Please, what kind of sentence is that? Could anyone who wrote this law have seen it - performing it. Is there a different formula to present something like this? And that's the reason for the emergency procedure? Mr. Minister, this law is best withdrawn from the procedure. This law has nothing to do with anything, nobody, nothing at all, all of it in the Health Security Act, all of it in the Health Insurance Act. This law is completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24611	Mr. Simo Vukovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24612	Dear Mr Minister, the Honorable Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a set of laws which, by their importance, fall within the rank of the law that this House passed back in 2005, such as the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act. They represent the continuity of the normative reforms in health that began in 2002. In fact, the government of the Republic of Serbia and in general the Republic of Serbia has defined itself as a health advocate process in 2002 and to bring it into line with the EU strategy, and this includes harmonising norms and standards. The common denominator and value of these laws lies in that they will regulate vital areas of public health protection, which so far have either not been regulated or existing acts have been unarranged, anachrons and not in line with the latest standards. The adoption of the proposed laws is one of the steps in the process of Eurointegration, but it is often banalised, which we could hear from some previous discussions. However, it is a much more important element, and the bottom line is that by adopting and harmonising these acts with the EU's norm we actually adopt the most modern standards that are confirmed by medical science and practice. These laws introduce order in areas that regulate the responsibility of all actors in medical activities, as well as the obligation to apply the above-mentioned highest standards and good practice. When we talk about the law on public health, we must come from a common definition that has long and long been adopted by the World Health Organization, which reads – health is not only the absence of disease or incompetence but the state of total physical, mental and social well-being. It is precisely this conscious and ambitious setting of the definition that commits to a comprehensive social engagement in the promotion of preservation and improvement of the protection of the health of the population. We also need to note one important fact that, despite the great progress in the system and the sustainable financing of the protection system, for the past few years, there has been an expansion of so-called chronic non-infectious diseases consisting primarily of cardiovascular diseases, and then of different types of cancers, which are almost all directly related to inadequate prevention, and then exposure to risk factors and risky behaviour, as well as the unacceptableness of healthy lifestyles. With the current normative environment when we talk about a public health law that is the first in a series and represents one of the roof laws, the current normative environment has included, as the proposer also stated in his reasoning, over 170 regulations in various areas. Therefore, the need to adopt public health laws is more than obvious, to determine in one place both the tasks and the positions of what are different levels of responsibility and the legal relationship of all those actors who have responsibility in implementing public-health policy. So, what are the foundations of this law that existed practically since 2003 when the draft public health strategy was adopted, and then a strategy was adopted, as we heard this year in March, from which an appropriate action plan came out, so the agenda that he prescribed, that we will actually adopt and consider this year's public health law. It seems to me that public health as a concept and category are not fully understood for our wider public, so it seems to me to be part of the professional circles. Public health as a matter of activity, discipline, implies a precise definition of a public-health policy that regulates mechanisms, i.e. the responsibilities of all social actors, institutions and individuals in order to promote health, prevent diseases, strengthen awareness and institutions, their integration of which should be the result of preserving, improving the health of the population. The practice so far has shown that underdefined accountability allows for continued fingertips against Ministry representatives and the transfer of responsibilities to others, even though they existed in the previous period. This law clearly recognises the responsibility that, besides the Ministry and the Republic Insurance Office, as well as the Public Health Institute, responsibility will also belong to autonomous provinces, local self-governments, public enterprises, entrepreneurs, churches and religious communities, the Red Cross, different associations of citizens. The law is essential. It prescribes decentralisation of responsibility for health. This means the obligation of permanent education, public health and strengthening human resources, building a single information system, modernising and training of healthcare managers, setting up a sustainable system of financing activities and establishing standards for monitoring the quality and measurement of the results of the implemented public health policy. Another law I'm going to say about is the law on transfusiological activity, which regulates one of the vital areas in the health care system. The ultimate goal of this law is to provide self-sufficient amounts of safe blood, as well as its components. Starting with respect to these principles, therefore, the principles of self-satisfaction and blood security, the promoter has given the legal framework and space to clearly define who can deal with this activity, in which way, he has established a hierarchy of responsibility, which is necessary for one such action. In addition to the obligation to harmonise space with EU standards in this area, the proposed law obliges the application of the latest technologies, scientific knowledge and recommendations in the area of transfusions. The Authority of the State Administration that will propose regulations, criteria, standards and be a practical body that will establish this area in the way that the legislation is prescribed is a biomedicine administration within which there will be a special organisational unit that will deal with transfusion activity. At the top of the pyramid in terms of the breadth of activity and responsibility, there will certainly be an institution or the Republic Transfusion Institute. On the basis of the prescribed criteria, personnel equipment and other conditions, health institutions will be clearly authorised to deal with transfusiological activity. And not only that, the law also prescribes the formation of blood banks, which can exist in those health institutions that meet the prescribed criteria. It will clearly bisect the prescribed monitoring and control procedures of all phases from collection to distribution of blood and its components. In particular, this bill apostrophe of voluntary giving as a cornerstone of self-satisfaction in collecting. This law obliges permanent promotion and strengthening voluntary giving. The law also establishes the obligation to establish a single register of donors to run the Republic Transfusion Office. This registry will be part of a unique health information system, and it will allow for an insight into all the information that is relevant to the safety of blood. There is also a requirement to test each blood unit. It is important for the public to be aware of this, as well as of blood plasma testing, with even the use of the most modern pi-si-ar (PCR) technology. In particular, the obligation of certain health institutions to establish a quality management system in accordance with the most modern standards is prescribed. The obligation to apply a closed blood treatment system brings about the highest degree of safety, which is certainly in the interest of patients and citizens. What has often been the subject of media speculation and public fear is the existence of trade, or unauthorized exports of blood and blood derivatives. This law clearly prohibits imports and exports of blood and blood components in Article 40 and prescribes appropriate criminal provisions for offenders of this law. To conclude, the law on transfusiological activity can be seen as a very fundamental legal proposal, whose adoption and application is a need for better security and functioning of Serbia's health care system. The following three laws, the organ transplant law, the cell and tissue transplant law, as well as the law on the treatment of infertility in the procedures of biomedically assisted fertilisation are related laws, and I will try to unite the discussion concerning these three laws. Of course, all these three laws for the first time regulate the areas whose expansion everyone attended. We are the contemporaries of a technological and scientific boom that monitors the areas of both transplants and assisted reproductions. This technological and scientific progress in this period allows for the development of transplants and so on. artificial insemination to the extent that they have allowed in modern medical practice are actually today as routine methods of treatment. This did not go beyond Serbia, with the limited financial resources, and in particular the lack of legal regulation, creating a rather messy environment that does not contribute to patients' interests. These bill proposals, as well as these earlier ones, are regulated on the basis of the principles and standards that are present in the EU, with the aim of harmonising and applying the most modern standards of medical science and practice. First of all, the proposed laws will allow better promotion of organ transplants, which is very important, cells and tissues, meeting citizens with organ donations, cells and tissues, as well as reproductive cells. The laws that treat transplants, this is very important to highlight, are based on principles that have been widely accepted in the developed world. This is the principle of solidarity, the principle of medical justification for carrying out a particular procedure, the principle of protection of interest and dignity, both the donor and the recipient, the principle of availability and the prohibition of discrimination, as well as the principle of security. The proposed laws clearly define which institutions from a network of health institutions can deal with activities, which will be prescribed by appropriate criteria that must meet the institutions that want to run for such action. Through the establishment of the Biomedicine Administration, the Authority of the State Administration shall also establish the basis for the implementation of these laws and allow its professional potential to be implemented. In order to ensure the availability of the organs, as well as fairness in the transplant process, a single waiting list for the entire Republic of Serbia will be drawn up, according to the type of needs for organs and criteria that will be prescribed by the Biomedicine Administration. Many times mentioned by the Biomedicine Authority, it is certain that, during the course of time and adaptation of our entire legislative system, it will likely one day become an independent regulatory body, but the reality is that at this point, it is most optimistic that it is the authority of the state administration. We'll have three segments within this government body. It's a Serbian transplant, we're going to have an organisational unit dealing with organ transplants, cells and tissues and the third one I've already mentioned in the previous segment of the discussion dealing with transfusion activity. It is very important to establish Serbia's transplant within the Biomedicine Authority, because this will involve us in a broader context, in fact, a system that exists in Europe, which is Eurotransplant, which will allow the exchange of organs, and in particular to mean that if for a particular body with a deceased donor it is not possible to find a suitable recipient in our country and from a single waiting list, the body can offer an appropriate international organisation or institution, with which today's minister has established contractual co-operation previously. So we'll be able to exchange organs, cells and tissues based on reciprocity. This will mean that patients, once and for years waiting for the appropriate organ for transplants, can get to the organs much faster and be successfully cured. That wasn't legally regulated until today. The principle of non-profits should be mentioned, therefore, inconsistencies. Any form of profit above what covers the basic costs of the transplant or storage process is not allowed, therefore, any material or immaterial benefit in giving, receiving, or transplanting. It is explicitly forbidden to advertise or advertise the need for organs, cells and tissues, which is not related to the promotion of voluntary giving, which we need very much at the moment. The adoption of this law opens up a new space in which a much larger number of people will be given, if enough people are declared to be a voluntary donor, a corresponding donor card, on which an explicit consent to organ donation will be recorded. Based on the records of voluntary donors, a unique register of donors will be established at the Medical Administration. The data protection of both the donor and the organ recipient were also taken into account. The data will be treated as an official secret and will, to the greatest extent, protect dignity and prevent the possibility of abuse and possible legal disputes. Also, the proposed laws relating to the transplant also determine the way in which it is financed, and it is very important to point out, from the means of compulsory health insurance, but if there is no way and the right to be implemented, it can also be provided from voluntary health insurance. Also, organ, cell, and tissue donors, i.e. their health care, are provided by means of compulsory health insurance. These laws establish conditions for the formation of cell and tissue banks, banks of reproductive cells, as well as obligations and criteria for their deployment. This will also allow the availability of transplant biological material and the wider coverage of patient control by transplanting or biomedically assisted fertilisation. The law on the treatment of infertility through biomedical assisted fertilisation has specificity in relation to the previous two because it enters the domain of relations, above all, legal, and these are children's rights, the matter that regulates Family Law and the like, as well as certain ethical issues which one of the predecessors already launched in his discussion. It is clear what is meant by the procedures of biomedically assisted fertilisation and conditions when, how and who can deal with this activity. Also, the right to object to the conscience of a healthcare professional who participates in this procedure, if it is conflicted with ethical or religious beliefs, does not have to deal with this activity. The issue of paternity and motherhood in the birth of children in the biomedical assisted fertilisation process has also been addressed. It is stated that the motherhood, or fatherhood of the donor, cannot be established, which fully protects the treated couple, or parents from the future challenge of parenting. It should be noted for the public that virtually all jobs involving intervention on genetic material of reproductive cells or embryos are prohibited, including media often processed cloning. All five laws are made up of professional working groups and have passed a very serious public debate filter, so I am surprised that predecessors deny it, because practically the entire public concerned has been very well and openly informed about the public debates themselves, which seems to me to be a good guarantee of the validity of the proposed laws and I am convinced that their application will complete the legal framework for the best possible functioning of the health care system in Serbia. The Group of MPs and G17 Plus MPs will support these laws, because they are an expression of the continuity of the good reform policy of the Ministry of Health and we believe that they will appear to be the best interest of all patients and citizens in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24613	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Dr. Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24614	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, I could continue this exhibit of mine - the sad expensive, I wouldn't be wrong. Usually when I speak in front of an audience, whatever, I stand. This time of course I won't stand for your clear reasons, because here's what we've brought to the Assembly, that important health laws are being discussed at night, and this reminds me of a pervasive atmosphere in a Balkan pub, where the curtains are down, just to turn off the light and do the job. But now, to let it go, I'd better stick to the law and what I do. In 2008, there were 6.7 billion inhabitants on the planet, and in 1800 when the first billion were reached, we came to this number. What will happen according to the country's projections is taking account of it, viewing demographic studies as important for the fate of a country, as well as for the nation. According to earth’s world forecasts, there are three scenarios: 2050, or there will be over 10 billion of us, or there will be 9 of us, which is a better variant or 7.4 which may be even more favourable. In fact, exponential growth that threatens the resources and well-being of all people is expected to be stopped at that time. Large countries, such as America, know that in 2050 they will increase their population by 44%, Canada by 26%, England by 26%, France by 13%, Sweden by 12%, look at wonders, Italy by 3%, and Germany reduces its population, Russia disastrously. And where is Serbia? We are among the 10 countries that are doomed to disappear slowly from the planet Earth and then we will be 21% less than we are living in these areas today. In fact, if a man looks at these forecasts in detail, we're expected to be 5.8 million, and now we're 7.4. Why did I start out like this? Because I want to come up with the main problem Serbia has today when it comes to health care, of course, I'm going to connect it. The main problem of the Serbian state and people is the biological threat of the Serb people. That is what this parliament does not want to establish, and the autistic ministers do not accept as a serious topic of discussion. It's better to say the government, not the ministers, it's the government's fault, and what the chances are with us, we could find a lot of culprits, and then we'd mention both foreigners and tycoons, and where our end would be. Tadic, of course, mostly. Now, if the biological substance of our people is compromised and the fate of the state has such a black perspective, what do we have it for? Two reasons are simple – one is the white plague, fertility declines, the whole world declines, but in Serbia, for God's sakes, another factor affecting it, and that is a great general mortality is also on the rise. Since 2000, from democratic changes, instead of stopping this trend, we have a nice rise in this trend. The best witness is the publication 'Batuta', the 2007 Health and Statistical Yearbook of the Republic of Serbia was published, and says this – from 2002 to 2007 there was an increase in mortality in Serbia by 1.6, which was conditioned by more frequent deaths than leading non-infectious diseases. Please, the leading non-infectious diseases are preventable. What are these diseases? Cardiovascular, hypertension, heart attack, that's what the minister says -- we've reduced mortality in intensive care units, and they're dying in corners and streets, and they're not experiencing surgery, like that blood donor, who gave 116 times blood, and he doesn't have 60,000 to pay for heart surgery, so he died, and we can't take care of it. Maybe someone will count it as a statistical error. Let's analyze this in detail, we have an epidemic of malignant diseases, there is one elsewhere, but what no one would expect in this publication will be nice to see that infectious diseases are also rising in the country of Serbia. Something we thought was past the century, and here it comes back to us, and I'm not going to read those numbers now, but they're clearly said. Now, if the situation is what it is, and it's not pink, then you can ask yourself, so what about the health care system, what about our future, if you look at that system. We are now in a hurry to pass five laws from the health profession. Just to remind you, those of you who have a better memory, when we passed the system laws, they were tied up with budgeting and blackmail were passed. One MP group has been forced to give up the amendment, a key amendment that still stands for all the doctors of this country, the famous member. 177th and 199th laws, and it's the same tonight. Let's unite five laws, night work, 10 MPs from the post, 10 from the opposition, get the job done. Now, when it's done like that, it's also a health indicator in Serbia. In my presentation at the beginning of my opinion, I said some things that someone might say – so it's not right, so you're exaggerating. I said that inadmissible lexic ignorance and lack of knowledge of the meaning of the basic concepts of the European directives. What Mr. Dimitrijevic read, those language stunts that no one in their right mind can write or understand in Serbia, I will not repeat, but we must give clear evidence to Mr. Minister how incompetent he is doing his job, not reading bill proposals and embarrassing the Serbian Parliament and the MPs, offering us to accept something like this. Here's an example, concrete ones. It is said in the law on transfusiological activity, you have these definitions and it is said in point 22) of Article 2, ''hemovigilance is a series of organised monitoring procedures related to serious adverse events and serious side effects in blood donors or blood recipients, as well as epidemiological monitoring of blood donors. '"If you go to Bill number 28, he's got a sign on Hemovigilance's blood, and when you read what it says there, you see it has nothing to do with hemoviglans. Such a huge ignorance of terms, it's a disgrace and shame, there is no such thing in Albania. Of course in Article 29, but now it's subtitled ć) - Monitoring and reporting serious side effects, or serious side effects, so it could be vigillance. And this, under Article 28, gentlemen, if you'd read the directives, they're here next to me, I can let you have your officers look at it, is the traceability of the term, it's called. I said your lexic exhibitions are also pretty big. If you take a proposal for a organ transplant law, then you will see an interesting 19th member who has a nickname and says – the inconsequentiality of providing services in relation to the transplant. Now, if someone takes those fat books, the dusty ones, which, of course, don't open in the ministries, let's say they take a book called "The Dictionary of the Serbian Academy of Science", so it opens that page 14, 775, then they'll see that the noun of "invaluable" women means "invincibility and invincibility." And whoever comes to seek, then will see that there is no gain, no gain, no gain, and means -- which cannot be won and won, means conquering, winning and busy, invincible and insurmountable and unconquerable. Now let's get that back to our headline. The impregnability of providing services in relation to transplants, congratulations, good job. Now, you're going to explain to us how you managed to get it together and, of course, put it together in the same article. You say it still - it's done as non-profit services, so it's impregnable, so I can't translate it. I said that we were trying to write amendments for our citizens, to fix the kind of criminal solution you've given us, where you've confused the definitions of the directive, where you've subsequently replaced them with a vigillance, where you invent Serbian words and give them new meanings that they don't have. And we offered you, well done, to make it look like something. If you'd taken a man to watch a whole set of laws, let's start with this first one, he's the funniest, public health law. You see, it's not the law at all. It's a resolution, if we wanted to be malicious, we'd show the declaration. The first year of law school learns what the law must have, what is the basic category of legal, it is norm. Norma must have, right, the conditions for disposition, and she must also have sanctions unless it's executed and in this law you have one single norm. What standard – making plans on extraordinary occasions, and you also have sanctions on what will be done if it is not done. No other norms, come on well, we've also proposed two amendments to help you, so we've said that this changes, the title of the act, that it's called a declaration, whether you'll adopt it, but that we move on. It's interesting if you look at the definition you're giving. In Article 2, we have public health is a social activity that seeks to improve health, extend life and improve the quality of life of the entire population, and through the promotion of health, prevention of diseases and other forms. I know this reading doesn't mean anything to my colleagues that I'm reading, but I have to read it because in roof law, the Health Protection Act, you have a different definition. In Article 119, it is said, here I read, to enter the minutes – Public health within the meaning of this law implies the realisation of public interest by creating conditions for the preservation of the health of the population through organised comprehensive activities of society aimed at preserving physical and mental health, i.e. the preservation of the environment, etc. What's it worth to you? Identify yourselves. Come on! You have invented a new term in our language, we have this concept of public health from your law. People's health, fellow minister, here I was able to make you laugh, that's nice, that's a Serbian term. He didn't mind Andrija Stamper. Croatians still have folk health school today. When you have translated what is the 19th century English law, public health, this unhappinessy term that is not in the spirit of Serbian language and does not mean that. I don't want to tell you what's covered in Satan's concept of public health. Look at the English definition of what science and art is. Look at the new updated definition. Where are your definitions compared to this? You say, yes, it's in 170 acts covered. So this is a clean surplus, give another law just, a law that has no sanctions, a law that has no norms, which is declarative. I'm saying we don't need that. Why? Because we've been told this better in the Health Protection Act. Read it carefully and you will see that more consistent and better through the members of that law, all of this is given. There's a good intensity, let me commend you. Public health in all policies is something that is modern. You probably read the book, but you have eight principles there. Where are your eight principles? If you had written a law on public health, because the term was adopted, though I say, on folk health, and if you had developed eight principles, it would have been nice. This is the story of the story and the dizziness of the inhabitants. I mean, I'm gonna stop there with my 20 minutes -- that this is a typical string law. Why? It's a hoax. We don't have a health policy, but we make laws, and laws are instruments that make politics happen. There is something that counterpart Korac has brought, the Serbian government has brought, but the assembly must bring to a democratic country - politics. Then the laws are passed. There's one big prank in all three laws - about transfusions, about transplants, you're distracting this people. This session is not like this at this hour because of us, to torture us – no. You're hiding and you're running away from the Serbian public. You Democrats are moving away from your constituents. You're ashamed of what's going on here and what's going on, and that's one of the main reasons why you're doing this, and you're making Parliament an inappropriate institution. Erem, the EU has ordered regulation bodies directives, you can call the regulatory bodies agencies, and whatever you want, to the institutes, it doesn't matter. The regulatory body is something someone tried to say – independent, and unites administration, administrative action, unites profession, science and inspection. You guys, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, you haven't reformed our system to the extent that you can be European-oriented, that you're passing European laws, because you've put the administration in the ministries and then you have nowhere else to go. Now you're making hybrids. You've created a drug agency, so you're no good now, and you don't even have a director at that agency. Up to that level, there's chaos in your system. What have you done with these laws? Now you will return the governing body to the Ministry, so it will not be. It's not Europe. It's mocking Europe. It's a lack of legal regulation and, of course, a man would ask himself: Why? There are pressures everywhere in Europe...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24615	It's been 20 minutes. Will you finish your sentence till the end?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24616	I'm finishing my sentence. There are various pressures on governments everywhere in Europe. From whom – from multinational companies that deregulation wants to create a free living space. What they do and what those agencies do, you'll know for yourself. I'm gonna stop here so others can continue their exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24617	Mr. Miroslav Markicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24618	President-in-Office, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure as explained in Article 104, paragraph 1, which says - MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Dear President, I am speaking to you both as presidents, as humanists and as a doctor, and I ask you to interrupt this session, because there is no dignity here. We're talking about people's health and people who've given blood 100 times, so every three months they give part of their body, and there's 20 MPs in the O.R. So, I think with such an act of MPs under these laws, the dignity of the National Assembly has been seriously violated. The fact that very few people, Serbian citizens, will watch this transmission, or delayed transmission, because it will be at 12 or one, does not save our face and yours and all of us here. The ruling coalition's representatives are currently 10, and they are the legislators of these laws that we want to know more about. Should the citizens of Serbia look at such a disgrace and shame on all of us, including me here? I am hurt, and I ask you to read the article of the 100th that says in its sixth position – if it considers that the injury has not been done, the President of the National Assembly, or the chairman, is obliged to give an explanation, and if he considers that the injury has been done, the President of the National Assembly, or the chairman, is obliged to remove the injury. So I don't have any more comments here. The dignity of the National Assembly with such a small number of MPs has been violated and you only have the right, in my opinion, and human, humanistic, and as a doctor – to interrupt this session and invite all MPs who are currently in the Assembly to attend here. I repeat, we are talking about people's health, people's lives, people who have lost their lives by someone's guilt or error, or by doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24619	Mr MP, Article 86(4) says - the debate on certain points in the established agenda of the National Assembly session is conducted regardless of the number of Members present. There are really 32 of us right now. It happens sometimes in the morning and at three o'clock in the afternoon, simply people follow other places, not only in the O.R., they contribute to these laws and to the Committee. We're really doing extremely important matter. The Ministry of Health has made a great effort to bring our legislation into line with European legislation on the one hand, and on the other hand to contribute to health activities for all. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you are not satisfied with my explanation, we can make a statement in the voting day about your assessment that the Rules of Procedure is still injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24620	I don't want to make a statement in voting day. I'm not happy with your explanation, but this is the shame and shame of this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24621	You usually have such findings, but I disagree with you. I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a principled search for a word in writing with the order of MPs submitted parliamentary groups: G17 Plus, Forward Serbia, DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, SNS, SRS and New Serbia. I give my word to the MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24622	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, since we have spent something since the time of our parliamentary group in the principle debate, I will try to be in line with this time that we have left. You have five minutes. That's exactly what I'm going to respect, so I'm not going to talk about the laws much. I think that professional colleagues have said a lot and a lot of things that are important and that the minister will certainly take into account when adopting the amendments, because a lot of constructive amendments have been submitted to these significant laws, starting with terminology, to the very solutions in the members of the law. However, according to my colleague Aleksandra Jankovic, Mr. Minister has been a minister for many years in the same ministry and the problems he inherits, he inherits himself. I'd like to ask him something practical from life, and I don't think he's familiar with it. This information will do him good, but before I find out and say what I have to say, I'd like to ask him a professional question in three cases. In the first case, is the person who was killed in traffic and was replaced by a femur and knee bone implant, is there a physical deficiency that qualify as disability? Also, in another case, when someone who died on the battlefield is also replaced by a femur implant, knee and a part of tibia, does there have a physical deficiency that qualify as disability? Third case, did the person who suffered from osteoporosis and surgery replace him with a part of the femur, knees and tibia, or does he have a physical disability, or a physical deficiency that is thus qualified? Why do I ask you that? Because it's the same physical defect that stands exactly as explained, very detailedly, very correctly under the rule of physical defects. However, you have a case that, specifically in Novi Sad, a young man is suffering from osteosarcoma, precisely with such a physical deficiency, from the university, to prove it, to the Association of Persons with Disabilities, who, by their request, refer him to the only doctor whose findings they recognize. And he doesn't admit to finding the Military Medical Academy that treated him, not admitting the findings of the Banjica Institute, not acknowledging the findings of the Institute of Oncology, confessing itself and saying – you have legs, arms, feet, heads, you're not disabled for me, you're not in the rulebook, the 1997 rule that there's even one later published, but it's actually prescribed, it sends him out without any paper, without any findings. Of course, later we come to the fact that there is a very settled rule. I wonder if you can react to that kind of work, which is obviously a parallel world with a world run by the Ministry of Health? I must tell you, positively, that in your Ministry of Justice, I have received an answer and instructions from the young man to appear in front of the regulatory commission and with regular findings, and that this is actually what is valid, and that this procedure is completely incorrect and illegal. I'll introduce you to the name of the doctor and everything, but I really don't want to bother the public present right now. Anyway, you should know that someone is getting paid in the system, paying from the citizens' budgets, and having their own system. I guess the young man, except for all the papers and tapes he has, and which, unfortunately, prove that he really had a metal implant in his leg that the doctor didn't even want to look at, didn't have the right paper that he needed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24623	The word is from the People's MP Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24624	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think all 32 of us, as many as we are in the O.R., will agree that the legal proposals that are currently on the agenda have the character of the system. The very importance of the proposed laws deserves better than to be discussed in the package. Each proposal deserves a thorough analysis and a serious and reasoned debate. I think it would be best for this topic to be processed in a serious way, through a serious debate, not that this debate takes place in the evening, while the video will be broadcast late at night. Health care certainly is one of the pillars of the state, as well as education, and we have opportunities to send the laws from these areas to parliament, I would say, pro form, which is clear when you see the way they are actually adopted. We are witnessing that certain nations and states actually manage to preserve their vitality and survive the years, even in isolation, precisely because education and health care are priorities. A picture of the health organisation in Serbia can certainly be observed through contributions to television that say that every day the situation in that area is getting better, but it can also be illustrated by facts such as the fact that our country is the first in Europe by the number of women suffering from breast cancer, or the fact that we are among the last in Europe when it comes to cadaveric transplants, or the fact that health laws were meant to be in line with the Constitution until December last year. I won't speak for long, because I don't think this is how the concept of debate can be put in place for the effect that it has a more significant improvement in the agenda proposal. Thus, the proposal for a transfusion law was to define, take more seriously, and affirm the role of voluntary blood donors. Since the whole system is in vain unless there are sufficient amounts of secure blood, we have witnessed how much effort is being made to stimulate giving. We traditionally have a system of voluntary blood donation, unlike some countries where they even pay for it. That's why I think this issue needed more attention. I've singled out one reaction from my colleagues. So, a colleague of the dentist, who is simply frustrated and disciplined by the provisions of the Health Care Act, who say that patients who have one of the 'f' diagnosis, including all forms of psychiatric addiction disorders, are free of payment of dental services, while, unlike them, students, disabled, unemployed, socially endangered and voluntary blood donors and the same services are paid from 500 to 4,000 dinars. I also believe that in this legislative proposal, the distribution of blood had to be more clearly defined and it had to be clarified which institutions would be allowed to carry out transfusiological activity. As for the proposal for a law on organ transplants and the law on cell and tissue transplants, I think we will all agree that it is necessary for them to exist and be adopted. They repeat that we are like the state at the bottom of the scale in Europe when it comes to organ transplants. Also, the state does not invest enough in the direction of stimulating organ donations, so people rarely decide to raise their organs. Even many who want to do so do not know what are the modals and what are the procedures for them to do so. Professional organisations, such as the Serbia Medical Chamber, have given some of the suggestions on how to improve existing law proposals, so the DSS parliamentary group, respecting that, has submitted appropriate amendments. The fact is that the ministry has respected some of these proposals, so they are already an integral part of the bill. The DSS amendments relate to the shortcomings of the proposed laws in terms of precision which can all be the organ donor, as well as to the precision of the procedure relating to the change in the decision on organ donation. It is also intervened in the part of the law concerning procedures, i.e. institutions that can take a declaration of donation. In addition, the proposed amendments aim to further ensure the confidentiality of information on the donor i.e. on the recipient of the authority and to ensure that only the competent ministry has the right to promote the authorities. The data on the need for organs are worrying. Although I have the 2008 data, you will correct me, probably the situation has not changed drastically, the kidney is waiting for more than 1,500 people in Serbia, 80 people are waiting for the liver, etc. Heart transplant is something that unfortunately does not work the way it should be in a European state in the 21st century. Certainly in this law the introduction of a biomedicine administration as a service should, in fact, be aimed at centralising and managing organ transplant services. Whether that's the right way, that practice will show. The question arises who will bear all the costs of the transplants to be carried out. As for the proposal for a law on cell and tissue transplants, it is also a very sensitive problem, as well as all the laws on the agenda, so it is especially necessary to pay attention to the prevention of possible abuses. It is certainly good that the Ministry respected the word profession and introduced the bill in order to register private stem cell banks by meeting the prescribed conditions. What is not good is the fact that in practice the deposit procedure of stem cells costs very much. If, for example, maternity care is wanted to preserve stem cells taken during childbirth, today in Serbia it has to allocate a little less than 2,000 euros. For those who do not know, stem cells can significantly help treat many diseases, start with a disease of the blood line, and even to a disease such as juvenile diabetes, and the spectrum of diseases that can be treated by stem cells is growing every day and we cannot imagine what will happen in a few years. So, if anyone has a disease in the family that can be treated this way, they have to allocate close to 2,000 euros to transport these cells to stem cell banks in Belgium and the Netherlands. The state would have to consider this issue strategically and ensure that anyone who wishes to do so is able to deposit stem cells. In the end, we could also as a regional centre, by commercialising for foreigners, make incomes that would only help the maintenance of such an institution. As for the proposal for a law on biomedically assisted fertilisation, which is necessary to legalise, we have seen some failures. We consider it insufficiently a harsh criminal policy when it comes to the possible abuse of surrogates of motherhood, because it must prevent the occurrences of a person giving birth to another couple for financial compensation. This has much broader than the medical implications themselves and the impact on the fundamental values of society, so we believe that these measures must be significantly more severe. The DSS also noted that there is a provision in Article 26 which defines that a biomedical assisted fertilisation procedure is prohibited in persons "of an age that is not suitable for birth". This is questionable from the aspect of the Constitution, which in article 63 speaks of freedom of birth. If the legislator wanted to talk about menopause, then he missed the subject drastically. Natality in Serbia is in serious decline, and that is why we are among the last in Europe. Serious strategies on the matter, unfortunately, no. Many youths have left the country, and so have those who remain either thinking about leaving or who are unable to solve essential existential problems. In the world, very often the ageing population is a symbol of a high standard, I'm afraid that's not the case with us, even though we are among nations with a high average age. The DSS considers that the proposal for a public health law is not acceptable in this form and has therefore not submitted amendments to it. We simply appeal to the minister to withdraw this bill, because we believe it is more declarative than is realistically applicable and feasible. So there are systemic, fundamental, important things among the proposals, and I think the team is worse that the ruling majority has hurried to start reviewing this set of laws within a few minutes of working time. I think it's about seriousness when it comes to this sort of thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24625	Professor Milan Knezevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24626	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must join in and comment that this set of laws certainly did not exist. The passing of these laws was something that was necessary to do, to resolve in one organised and legal way the issue of tissue and cell transplants, organ transplants. And just because there was no legal regulation, this question arises -- why are these laws being passed in an emergency procedure? For these reasons, in fact, each of these laws was to be considered through a special session and through the specific points of the agenda, precisely because we had no legal regulations, especially what these laws require and some of the accompanying acts, and in order to do so properly, this speed and emergency procedure is something that casts a shadow. Basically, any professional law, especially these health laws, should never be politically colored. The bottom line is that there is a need for professional and medical science and training to give a qualified professional guide to adhere to various procedures, but individual members of the law, the way law is passed gives little political colour. It was not for a united debate to be conducted, but for each of these laws to be considered in particular. I would like to comment on the first public health law. That term, and my colleagues mentioned it, really doesn't match the spirit of Serbian. Long ago in 2001 and 2002, in various discussions at major individual universities, a public health claim was made that this was not a real translation, that it was a cadada translation, that the right word is folk health, because, as a colleague said, there is also a public opinion, but there are some other houses that have this prefix. In my opinion, the term "public health" should be changed eventually because it does not match the spirit of Serbian. It should also be said that all these laws written in many structures are not written in the spirit of Serbian. In many paragraphs of all five laws, they were to undergo a lexis review and in some ways be courted in the spirit of the Serbian language. Not only are these laws regarding health care, but other laws, the law on education also had many different lexical coins, and I think that in the future every law, before it came to the Assembly, taught by experience so far, would require one review by a professor of Serbian language. As far as the public health law is concerned, this is essentially not a real law. This definition, I just wrote down, is theoretically elaborated on what public health is, which are areas and public health activities, which can be found in social medicine textbooks for medical students. Here are concepts and areas, and definitions of what is done, what includes public health, one declarative theoretical reading, so that there are no concrete, clearly defined ways of implementing, measure, authority, institutions, so that practically this law on public health is not the law. The next thing that is common to three laws, which is the law on tissue and cell transplants, organ transplant law and law on the treatment of infertility by biomedical assisted fertilisation procedures, is the introduction of a biomedicine administration. Many times, or MPs of the opposition, we mentioned how many agencies formed this government, but I have to admit in the end that the better expression was to say – a biomedicine agency, rather than a biomedicine administration. This administration sounds a little bureaucratic, sounds police. Now I've heard, my colleague threw it at me. A better term would also be a Lexic – a biomedicine agency. Why? She's in common with all three laws. Now, if I don't read here, when you're looking at article 69, you see, that agency has a lot of powers -- to issue permits, determine conditions, renew work permits, propose to the ministry to withdraw permits. She is one authority that has a significant legal authority in the area of these three laws. In this administration, as it is said here, the law immediately provides for a director and director, it is clear, should be a prominent expert in the field of transplants, but if this finding is already given what can and who can be the director, the question is still asked that a criterion should, and what does that mean – a prominent expert in the field of transplants? Still, some criteria are significant for that. Immediately, in the next article, three assistants are appointed. In this article in 65, they just said who they could be. It can be a person who is a prominent expert in the field of transplants, and in the following, there are no conditions for assistants at all. Now these people run this agency that is very important in controlling all these procedures, these laws, not to repeat them, which should professionally resolve the issue of tissue, cell and organ transplants. So they have to be defined and conditions organised by these agencies, if we want them to do their job in a good way. On the other hand, the Biomedicine Administration introduces inspectors, transfusiological activity inspectors, tissue transplant inspectors, cell and tissue transplant inspectors. We're introducing inspectors who exercise control with clear powers of what and how they should do. I mention this because the law does not require the use of new financial resources and it says in the law that there will be no new employment, because within the Ministry of Health it will be redistributed. I don't think it's a correct comment, least of all. Is it possible that in the Ministry you have, not to read, here in the law you have clearly given which conditions should be met by the inspector for all of this, to be a five-year specialist in the appropriate area, to have experience? I can't believe you've got people this qualified in the Ministry that you'll be able to redistribute in a year, I don't believe in five years, to be inspectors. In other words, rather, the specificity of the new laws will require hiring people who are high-level in order to do this job. It is evident that this leads to an increase in the number of employees employed by the Ministry of Health, because personally, if I am wrong, you will correct me, and you do not have people who can meet these conditions that you have allowed to be inspectors for these areas. This means an increased number of employees, if necessary, and we want to develop all areas that are highly sophisticated, as far as transplants are concerned, it's okay. The next thing you know is the transplant procedure in Art. 59, which is prescribed by the minister. The first position says - the transplant process is carried out in accordance with the highest standards of medical science, and then it is said that everything is done by the minister. A second attitude is unnecessary. If you have this biomedicine administration, it should be her when you give her such instructions and prescribe all these transplant procedures, not the minister. That part, especially when it comes to highly sophisticated transplant laws, which are high-level and if we want to introduce order and medical doctrine, then maybe it's a different solution. Then the question arises in the law: who is it that is qualified to do an assessment of what is advertising, and what is the promotion of transfusions, transplants? Do citizens have the right to know through public means of information, to know, and to receive information that the institution has to do with organ transplants, tissue transplants, and whether it would be known through some television shows or through means of public information, such as daily newspapers, as advertising? I think ordinary people, with health problems that require transplants or out-of-body fertilisation, should be informed and informed. Who's gonna be the one to decide if it's okay or not? Exporting the quality of the work of a health institution, is it advertising or meeting ordinary citizens with some new method? It's hard, probably, sometimes to distinguish, but it's clear that you have to tell who he is who he's going to say that this health care facility committed a violation, that this doctor committed a violation, that he advertised himself and that he broke the law? Then another thing that comes into my eyes is - we're talking about cell and tissue transplants here, and we're not talking about this civil and military healthcare anywhere. They're probably not likely to have their own laws, but since they're such highly sophisticated techniques, where should they be bank cells, where should a single register be run? Whether the law exists and should comment on how some of the institutions will be involved, such as, I do not advertise, the Military Medical Academy. I don't understand where there's a specific military-medical academy, which is strong professionally, not only in these, but also in other areas, and I think it has to be in the proper, I don't know which, legally involved with some of its rights. Let the special laws apply to it, but they must be in that unique network of registrations, as well as for the creation of a single list and register, either a cell and tissue bank, or a transplant body. In these laws, this relationship with these same highly specialised institutions, which are outside the civil system, should be addressed in a way by the military sector. What I would ultimately comment on is that, however, you have put this exorbitant item of the agenda of highly specialised health laws, which should be out of political thinking, for the benefit of the citizens, for the benefit of the patients, in a slightly different way, in order to force you to put it on the agenda and certainly, regardless of the amendments, which will certainly be enough and which will be specifically considered, to cast doubt that this is little and on the part of the ruling majority of the political score-gathering. I repeat, it is clear that laws should be passed, but they should have been held in a special debate. Why? If there was no real debate in professional circles, perhaps we as MPs could get much more accurate expert-medical interpretations of individual members. This is how we have been denied in this congregation, which is definitely the laws of something.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24627	Minister Tomica Milosavljevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24628	My colleagues and colleagues and ladies gentlemen, since there are a lot of colleagues and colleagues, I assume the most doctors will persist in this debate. I have a need to answer this, and right now, I know there's still time and we're going to talk about this, but I need to recap, especially to answer some questions, because it seems to me that it might change the course of further discussions if I could explain something or explain a little more. So, there have been different discussions so far. In some discussions, there were so many negative and destructive, mostly those who are always against and who have never considered anything positive that was brought here from the healthcare system and such an act in the beginning is primarily discrediting the one who performs so. Because if you're always against everything in every situation, then you're really asking the credibility of what you're saying, because it's just impossible for a hundred things to be really wrong and there's no argument there. It only helps to call for public general interest, which is why we really need to overcome narrowness, party disciplines and boundaries, as far as they look upside down, health deserves really more. Imagine that I came here tonight and suggested that a health ministry be established in Serbia. What would you say? You would say – that is a phrase, and I tell you some of the richest countries in the world have a health ministry that one and has special ministries of healthy life, and these are countries where the concept of modern public health is understood in a way that we in Serbia need to understand. Public health is a social and state responsibility for extending life, for improving the quality of that life, for promoting health and healthy lifestyles, for early detection of diseases and for treating and preventing disability. We define it by law just to affirm this science and the skill of extending life and to learn politics on social and state responsibility. The public health law is, there are a lot of declarations in there. It wasn't him since yesterday. The result is something that has been going on in this country for decades as a huge effort, by Milan Jovanovic-Batut, and after having been through Andrija Stampar, and this continuous thread today in Serbia is practically the end of one of the few years of the ongoing work of reforming the public health and public health networks, which have been transformed only by different circumstances into laboratories, which have not done a promotion of health and healthy lifestyles. Local self-government forgot their responsibility for the health of citizens in their local self-government and thought only how to appoint directors, boards and boards of directors. So this law comes as a result of serious reforming of networks and public health institutes and changes in consciousness among Serbian citizens. Regardless of the ominous comments tonight at the expense of researching Serbia's citizens' health, it is one of the valuable and very important things that will serve us now at the Ministry of Health and tomorrow others, who will continue this work, and never again in Serbia will this research happen again every five years. It is only that in comments today it is not said that for example 7% - 8% less active smokers in Serbia, it is not said that for a quarter more healthy behaviour in terms of physical activity and healthy nutrition, and these are also the results of research into Serbia's citizens' health. It is not said that the length of life expected in Serbia is longer at birth for the last few years, and the increasing mortality of infants, children and mothers in relation to birth and pregnancy. These are also indicators of something that I really can't understand that someone says that Serbia's health is poor or that it's using other terms, that I'm not repeating it now. Health system reform must be part of reforming society. The reform is a change of ruling relations in one system, but in a peaceful way and with the consensus of the participants of the system. Social health officials are very important and thanks to the debaters who mentioned it, because today we are witnesses, at a time of economic crisis, that this is one of the main elements and challenges. I'll quote one sentence, and then I'll tell you who said it later. "There must be no health care to create class distinction in society." Zoran Djindjic, July 2002, at Zlatibor, when we started a hard-pressed job of defining, implementing health policies through a strategy with an action plan by 2015 – Better health for everyone in the third millennium, and when we came to you today to say that you have the honour of choosing Serbia's Health Council for five years, which will propose a health system development plan from 2010 to 2015. Do you know when the first health council in Serbia was established? It was founded in 1882 by the decision of the then assembly and was then proposed that the health minister propose to Knjaz and that Knjaz appoint him. At the 61st session, one MP stood up and said – people, this is not good, the minister should not propose a health council, he should be proposed by the Serbian Medical Society, the profession knows better and should take three years, not a year. That's how it's done. Do you know what that MP was called? Nikola Pasic. It's a line that we hold here and we don't let go, which is called the continuity of understanding public health as a serious category. When we talk about other laws, I have to tell you, I've written a lot of things, but now I'm going to put all this away and tell you -- transplant. In the organ transplant in Serbia, we started a few years ago by analyzing what we in the transplant can and where we are. We've gathered everyone and anyone who knows anything about the transplant. Believe it or not, the first move was the one that one MP said – well, that's simple, that's a technical matter. Definition of brain death. It's a huge, complex, complex problem that's defined by a sublegal act. The equipment was bought so that it could be diagnosed at all. I'm telling you, today it's not only the Minister of Health, Professor, Doctor of Internal Medicine and fellow fellow Momchilova, who has also been on duty for all these 30 years and is not at all difficult for him to sit with you all night, but I have Professor Zoran Milosevic in Novi Sad with a team who has managed to transplant his liver. And these few years with me is Drago Milutinović and Professor Rada Blagojevic, who transplant one kidney every week and maintain a line of transplants, only most donors, professors with VMA, who participate in the whole business, are from Tirsova. You have to trust that these laws are being talked about, discussed, adopted by not only these four months, how long the public debate takes, but back a few years, since 2002. In 2005, we adopted a Strategy to provide sufficient amount of safe blood in Serbia. It was about the donors. Blood donation is voluntary, anonymous, unpaid. The Red Cross Act obliges the Red Cross to do most of its work on the desecration of voluntary giving. For your information, in 2008 Serbia was the highest blood supply since it was recorded as giving blood in Serbia. So, the line of increasing the voluntary, anonymous and non-profit blood supply is consistent all the time. In the organ transplant, I understand the complete argument that says maybe it was to bring an independent agency as a regulatory body, it was a serious dilemma. If we had brought the agency, those same critics would most likely say why the agency again, which isn't in the Ministry. This area is so complex and so much in that area, with two per million residents of cadaveric donors, we're not in the last place, but we're in the bottom line. We have so much work to do and so much work is complicated, that in the next period, to the new law passed by the Assembly, many of you will sit inside as many of you sit for years and know very well that they have their own personal responsibility for the health system, some as members of the Health Insurance Fund Management Board, some as ministers without portfolio, some as secretaries of the city health care, some as presidents of the health committees of the parties. We know very well what we're talking about here. The Transplant and Biomedicine Administration are opening the door that when this law is adopted, or set of laws, we start serious talks with the Eurotransplant Foundation for the next few weeks, which has the highest result and the best result in the EU and the European continent, and that in the next year, by autumn 2010, we will be mature. Until then, we need a lot of education. We need a network of coordinators. We need the evaluation of their work. When we talk about out-of-body insemination, no one here has said -- all honors, we take off a hat from the Ministry of Health, which in 2007, then in 2008, it did 700, and then along with hospitals over a thousand and some extra-body fertilizations. All that was possible in Serbia, the facilities of the institutions, six private and three state-owned facilities, were done. That's the result. Almost 400 million dinars were invested from the joint security inside. Cells and tissues, it is transplanted today in children at the Institute for Mother and Child, in adults at the Clinical Centre and VMA. The number's on the rise. When we talk about taking stem cells, since it's mentioned, it's a brand-new area and it shouldn't be made in vain. We have a clear plan that in three years we have a national stem cell bank at the Institute for the Health Protection of Mothers and Children, this job has been started and in this interpretation of the law Dr Vujic and her team who tell you - hey, people, we need a regulation, we need it to speed up the activity. If you do not understand what our responsibility is, I will end it by telling you that, regardless of all individual cases, I thank Mrs. Đeric primarily for her trust, because she obviously thinks that I can help solve the problem in an individual case, where injustice has obviously been done to a man, so there is a system that corrects it and so you are told in the Ministry of Health, the regular commission of the fund, insurance rights and already as the law says. I'll tell you that investing in health is the only right to invest in the country's economic sustainability. It would be a minimum of what the Serbian health minister can expect you to support after several months of open debate that you could participate in. Whoever wanted it was involved. Whoever was constructive, his remarks had already been incorporated into the law. Not to say that over the past few years, you know very well, all 173 transfusiologists have participated in different ways. There's no one in the transplant who knows anything about it that he didn't take part in. There is no such thing in the out-of-body fertilisation either in the private sector or in the state sector that has not taken part. We have consulted international experiences. Somewhere we were more flexible than, say, the Croats, who provide support only for marriage. We defined it according to the family law, the Family Law. Of course there's no ideal law. Of course everything can be better. Of course we will have it better in Serbia, but for this moment it is not urgent, but no health law deserves to be discussed differently in the Serbian Parliament but only urgently, because we are now doing what others have done long before us. You should know that the Croats passed an extra-body fertilization law three days ago. It's not that simple. They entered Eurotransplant in 2007, and the chamber was in 1991. Hungarians 1989, Slovenians 1992, we in 2005, and in 2007 we license. I'm here for an answer that doesn't concern the law. License points, half collects inside the house, at seminars studying, half at meetings. I apologize for the tone, but I'm here with my colleagues at a professional meeting, the others who aren't from our branch are watching it, with the responsibility of politicians who understand it very well. Health is a much stronger job and much wider than just doctoral. Therefore, the public health law, that everyone learns what public health is, that it is a social concern for the quality of life and the extension of life, and for health, and that the president of the municipality responds if he does not work against air pollution because it will make health worse, if he allows smoking in the premises of the municipal congregation, if he does not understand that his obligation is to assist the programs and primary prevention of tumors. It's all public health. Public health in the Assembly. You smoke a little bit more in the halls. You won't be long.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24629	I thank you, Mr. Minister, for your very argumentative presentation. I hope it directs the other participants in the debate. Mr. Aligrudic advertised the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24630	I'm advertising a breach of Article 104, and above all, it's addressed to you, Madam President, you've already added the reasons for such an intervention after the Minister's presentation. My intervention refers not to the tone the minister addressed, for I often have a very aggressive tone when I have a cause for such a thing, as a speaker in the National Assembly. Therefore, I cannot have that remark. Everyone who participates with a barbecue in the discussion has a reason. So it's not something that bothers you. What I was about to notice and what I thought you'd notice, and instead of the praises that you could say, you could still say one objection. Namely, this is the legislative body and the laws proposed by the Government, as well as by the MPs, discussed in this House and when we use the term - the debate on the bill, in the legislative body, has a certain and very clear meaning. When we talk about emergency procedures and debates under emergency procedures, it also has a very specific meaning. Whether one substance or one legal proposal has been discussed in professional circles for six months, a year at various symposiums or assemblies, this can only be relevant in this context. In the context of this institution's work, believe me, it doesn't matter, and that's something that you, Madam Chairman of the National Assembly, should have responded to. I'm not saying, God knows what tone or deity it is, but to warn the speaker that he is as a person chosen by this legislative body, as a minister in front of that same legislative body, and that in that sense he must act as a speaker with respect to the MPs. That was the only reason for my intervention and nothing but what the minister was saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24631	The proposer's representative is more than reasonable, calling primarily on the profession, because these laws really regulate both clinical work and include scientific research achievements, explained the way in which the text is brought before us. Of course, we are now on the move to discuss and it is obvious that the bill has caused a great deal of interest to all of us and that those who paint it have political, rather than professional reasons. Therefore, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Dušanka Plecevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24632	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin my discussion, I would agree with the Minister that public health has been compromised by smoking in the halls of the Assembly, or this people's home, but I ask him if we are at risk of health when we work and discuss more than 12 hours a day? I'd like him to answer that question for me. We have five legal proposals on the agenda in the field of health. I will focus my discussion on the proposal for a law on transfusiological activity. We from the SRS parliamentary club have fundamental objections to the proposed law, and they relate to the generality of the law, the organisation of the transfusiological service, that is, the work, and the urgency of the procedure. We don't think there's any reason for the law to go by emergency procedure, because it's in article 59. The proposal for a law on transfusiological activity says that the minister will lay down rules for the implementation of the law within 12 months of the date of entry into force of the law, and Article 60 says that medical institutions carrying out transfusiological activities, i.e. certain transfusiological activities, will coordinate their general acts, organisation and work with the provisions of this law within 12 months of the date of adoption of the law, which means two years in total. This doesn't fit into the explanation of the reasons for the emergency procedure for bringing in escrow, in which you say, 'in order to create emergency conditions for ensuring a high level of health care for citizens', etc. The contradiction is obvious. Furthermore, we believe that the title of the law is not adequate and that the law on blood and blood components would be more adequate, such as the law on the provision of blood and blood components or the law on the collection of blood and blood components, etc. The generality of the title of the law is a reflection of the generality and content of the proposed law. Our general observation is that the law is not concrete, as well as that no blood donation strategy is seen. In addition, this law narrows down transfusiological activity. Already in the first article, we have a consensual definition in relation to the law in application, which is the Law on Health Protection, which means that it is in collegiate with Article 123 of that law, which speaks of what the works of the Blood Transit Office are. So these activities, among other things, are the performance of the business, the provision of the need for blood derivatives and blood-produced medicines, which are not present in this bill, i.e. in Article 1(3), it is said that the provisions of this law do not apply to the supply of medicinal products derived from human blood and human plasma. Twenty sublegislative acts are foreseen to regulate this area closer, which is brought by the Ministry of Health, or the Government, which means that the very important decision regarding health is being taken from the home of the National Assembly, from the MPs, and shifts to the narrow circles of the ruling structure. This is inadmissible, and all you so-called. Sub-legislative acts should be incorporated in the draft law, so that the proposal for this law is comprehensive and precise, without unnecessary forests of various regulations. We only see the proposal's intention to standardise a procedure that affects the quality and safety of blood and blood components, but not how to implement it. In your explanation for the adoption of this law, you stated that it was necessary to harmonise domestic law in this area with EU law, and in this context, guidelines and recommendations by the EU and other international recognition of standards in the implementation of this action have been applied. In this bill, however, you have not consistently applied this, i.e. you have partially applied the European Commission Directives since 2002 and the daughter of the Directive since 2004 and 2005, and the recommendations of the Council of Europe, which set standards of quality and safety for the collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human blood, or blood components, in order to ensure a high level of protection of human health. We are also against the envisaged strategy of centralisation of transfusiological action. Serbia has co-ordinated a blood transfusion service with three regional centres and eight regional units. Three regional centres are not enough to adequately transport blood and blood components to remote areas. Given that it is impossible to standardise the quality of blood in the existing 47 places in Serbia where transfusiological activity is performed, adequate quality equipment could be provided, at least in those institutions where more units of blood are collected, say 500 and more. Therefore, local decentralisation could be done, i.e. the formation of a hospital blood transfusion service, as exists in some EU countries, Denmark, Italy, Sweden, given that five and a half million euros were spent on modernising transfusion activity. Not only has it not been done, but plasma derivative production has not increased, as promised. The principle of self-satisfaction, i.e. that each country has enough blood and blood components, and particularly self-satisfaction in plasma derivatives, plasma for francination, which are also EU guidelines, will be difficult to achieve. Reduced production not only in plasma derivatives, such as globulins and others, but also in blood collection systems from blood donors that the transfusion agency once produced and made a good profit. Economic reasons can always be an excuse that any stage in the process of blood collection and processing is not implemented, in which case there is no talk of self-satisfaction. Serbia achieves 10 per cent to 20 per cent confidence in the plasma for fractionation, while some EU countries and outside the EU accomplish far more. For example, Italy 60%, Spain 70%, Germany 80%, and 100% France, the Netherlands, Belgium, etc. Disrespect for voluntary blood donors and their associations as essential parts of civil society is anti-European. They were not involved in the task force for the making of this law. You wrote in your explanation for the adoption of this law that voluntary blood donation is a cornerstone in the safety of blood, in which I fully agree, but you marginalized this cornerstone in this bill. Giving blood is voluntary, anonymous and free, it is the personal act of every citizen and the awareness of it belongs to everyone. The problem, however, is that the legislator encourages people to volunteer for blood. We have intervened in this regard in Article 3, and we hope that the minister will accept the amendment. Therefore, there is no respect for the objections made by registered voluntary blood donors associations in the public debate. They are undervalued, which further threatens the trust of voluntary blood donors. Although blood donation is voluntary and free, the promoter could still give some relief to voluntary blood donors, e.g. in paying for operations, as a good gesture for manifest humanity, which would further motivate voluntary blood donation, not just for free basic checks. The debate also mentioned the possibility of giving national pensions after a certain number of blood donations, but this already falls within the scope of other laws. We generally support the position of voluntary blood donors dissatisfied with the treatment of this bill. The population response is 3.24%, according to the director of the Blood Transfusion Office, which is not enough to achieve the principle of self-satisfaction. And this segment of health care is not immune to corruption. I would like to remind you that 5.5m euros have been spent to modernise transfusion activity without increased production of plasma derivatives, but the question of the survival of the national plasma fractionation centre at the Institute for Blood Transfusion is also raised. The 200,000 euros collected in 2007 for the purchase of a more modern blood-gathering bus was spent without it being obtained. The Blood Transfusion Service issued a statement on June 4th this year to conduct blood restrictions on operational programmes. There's blood in private clinics, and restrictions and waiting for cold surgery in the state. In the biomedicine administration, that is, the work of the state administration and the supervision of the work of authorised transfusiological institutions, there is no indication of who makes the administration. It had to be incorporated into this law, not the subject of sublegal acts. As a parliamentary group, we have submitted a number of quality amendments to this area, which we believe will greatly improve this law and we hope the minister will recognise them and adopt them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24633	The word is from Ambassador Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24634	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, enough has been said in this debate on the essence and fate of these laws, with very little hearing that in this set of laws relating to transfusiology, organ transplants and these other two laws someone has declared against and said that these laws are not necessary. The main point of the objections to the biggest was the public health law. In addressing the MPs, you used a few sentences that I must comment on. You said there was an ominous comment. That's not true. No wicked comment could be heard here. So, what you're told is, in one honest intention to improve something about your laws and that one law that is completely worthless, which is inapplicable, which is a declaration, which does nothing, is withdrawn from the procedure. You quoted the saying of our late politician, Zoran Djindjic, and you said, "Health must not create class separation of society." Mr. Minister, what's going on with the waiting lists, with those interventions being done at state institutions out of business? What happens if more births arrive urgently at the same time where the indication is a C-section. What's the birth certificate in the surgical room? Of course, the one who paid for the extra work. First, it's obvious that paying out of the pockets of institutions that are on the budget, these are state institutions, can only encourage and legalise discrimination, discrimination on a property basis. That's the essence of the problem. You mentioned the formation of a national council. Mr. Minister, on the insistence of the Health Committee, it was only then that the procedure for the establishment of the National Health Council was launched, until then that did not occur to you to do so. Several times, and here is the president of the Health Committee, we opened this topic on the Health Committee. Only when the topic became public, when the media started writing and asking questions – why is something that exists in the Health Protection Act not applicable? Why wasn't that body formed? Only then did you react, and only then came into congregation procedure for the appointment of members of the National Health Council. The fourth thing, about the transfusion law, I was quoting what you said in 2002 to the question of journalist B 92. You then declared that this bill was necessary. Is your engagement so much and so much concern that it had to be seven years before the law was passed? I'm talking about 2002, and this is 2009 when this law appeared in the procedure. These are the facts you don't seem to have an answer to.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24635	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24636	Serbia's health council is not a body proposed by the minister at some discretionary will, but a body that knows exactly which Serbian institutions propose members of the health council, among other things, is a chamber. One of the only reasons why the proposal wasn't on the table of the Assembly's president is that one of the chambers, the Stomatology Chamber of Serbia, couldn't give its representative in time and that's one reason. Everything else is like that, the interpretation of the second and third hands. As for questions relating to the protection of patients' rights, I was first elected minister in June 2002 and I worked this job for a year, and after six months after the election, again with a six-month break and the first thing I did in the Ministry of Health personally and all of us together as a team, was to define a directive on the protection of patients' rights in Serbia's healthcare institutions and to introduce a protector of the patient's rights. That year the European Declaration on the Protection of Patients' Rights in Rome was adopted, at the end of that year. She has some attitudes in our system that can't be rewritten as sometimes she does. There is no single reason to speak now about the fact that it is not in the law, rather, the Health Protection Act in one large part deals with the protection of patients' rights, for the first time in the history of this country. According to the example of these solutions from our law, for example, Croatia after that by passing the law, when you look at these members you will see, it was very much followed by this experience. Of course I can define the patient's rights in a special legal act, but it's completely incorrect that the protection of patients' rights does not exist. It is defined by a large, significant part of the health care law. Now this is not a topic, but while we are talking about the subject and when it is mentioned – it is mentioned that the protector of the patient's rights has a conflict of interest. There's no conflict of interest. He's employed at the facility and the facility doesn't have any other interest in the patient's interest. The only interest of the facility is to do what is good and beneficial for the patient. It just became if there was a conflict of interest between the patients on the one hand and the users of the service and the health institution. Secondly, law enforcement institutions should be as numerous as possible. It is good that Serbia has a protector of the rights of citizens, who also receive occasional applications related to the health system. It is good for local self-governments to recognise that they need their citizens to protect and introduce institutions at the level of cities, at the level of municipalities, as many institutions a man can address when he thinks his rights are not respected or injured, so much better for the system. We started protecting the patient's rights, did a lot of work on education, networking, and significantly improved that area. I'm calling all of you on August 31st for a national quality conference, where you'll hear what's going on for the last five years, year after year, with a constant improvement in quality, and among other things, a insistence on the protection of rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24637	Thank you, Mr. Minister. People's MP Milan Dimitrijevic is advertising the Rules of Procedure, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24638	I'd like a replica to Mr. Secretary about two things. First, around the dental chamber. Mr. Minister, you were obviously not in communication with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Health Committee. We've warned the Ministry of Health several times and this controversy over the formation of the dental chamber lasted a year. We asked for supervision of the legality of the work of the dental chamber for various things and at one of the last Committee on Health and Family we asked for administrative and financial supervision of the work of the dental chamber. You can find the way to delegate a member of the National Health Council in front of the dental chamber in the minutes of the Parliament of the Dental Chamber, so you will see how they are delegated to the National Council and see if this council has any credibility at all, if people are delegated in such a way – based on phone calls and proposing a single member, without consulting the rest of the dental chamber. As for the protectors of the patient's rights, you can't convince me that the man who is employed in that facility can at the same time be able to protect the patient's rights, because he's tied to that facility, he's getting paid. To support this, I will remind you of the writing of the newly-sad newspaper "Dnevnik", where employees in the facility are tearing the sheets out of the book of complaints. You can get that paper, so you'll see how it works. That is why we have proposed, and that is why we insist on passing a law on the protection of the patient's rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24639	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Of course, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure here, and you didn't say which member was injured, so I'm not answering anything. I didn't hear you. You had to say it a little louder. [[The Faith of Radet, from the place: the apostle asked for a replica]] You don't have to throw away, you're not a lawyer, and you don't always have to interpret everything that's going on here. (Zoran Krasic: I'm helping you, you're tired, the fatigue of the material is at stake. Here you go, Mrs. Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24640	The proposal for a organ transplant law and a proposal for a cell and tissue transplant law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 4 July 2009 to the National Assembly with a proposal to, in accordance with Article 164. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be adopted by emergency procedure. I would like to repeat, for the minister's comment, that the SRS, or the parliamentary group, has nothing against organ transplants, cells and tissues. On the contrary, it advocates that such important existential issues are resolved on behalf of the citizens, but not in this way. The SRS parliamentary group has serious objections to the proposals for the listed transplant laws, because this is about the life and health of all of us. I hope, Mr. Minister, that any law can be better than proposed. Members of the SRS are very responsible and are very specific about all the bill proposals, including this law. In order not to make two or three months of changing and supplementing these bill proposals, we have proposed very constructive proposals to you tonight, not destructive ones, because we are not in any way malignancies, we want only this way to improve laws and legal proposals. What you're proposing is a bad combination. Laws of hair with professional and scientific principles on transplant medicine. Why do you propose a law of urgency? The interpretation of the law by emergency procedure is not an explanation, this is a false and insulting elemental logic. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I will read some of the transitional and final provisions of the organ transplant bill, so let them assess how urgent it was to propose these laws by emergency procedure. A member of the 84th law said the Biomedicine Administration is beginning work at the latest on July 1st 2010. Then, Article 86 of the regulations implementing this law will take place within 18 months of the start of work of the Biomedicine Authority. The last article of 19 states that this law takes effect on the eighth day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and will apply from 1 January 2010. You have prescribed that the Biomedicine Administration will form on July 1st 2010. Then how will the laws apply? Bringing in sublegal acts ends in 18 months, and how can you say it's urgent when laws cannot be applied without this central regulatory body? The crucial question is why did you rush to pass such significant vital laws, laws of immeasurable importance. The explanation of the reasons for the adoption of the laws under emergency procedure reads: "In order to create (well, I will stress) the conditions for ensuring a high level of health protection for citizens, i.e. the establishment of a legal framework, it is necessary to adopt an organ transplant law after an emergency procedure". Mr. Minister, does this mean that so far the citizens of Serbia have not had a high level of health care? How can an institution not function if we don't adopt these laws? How'd they work so far? I think the citizens of Serbia have the right to explain this to them. In the light of the reasons for law-making, you stated that the total number of organ transplants reported to transplant centres in the Republic of Serbia from 2000 to 2007 was 532, and seven people received liver, while in 2008, only106 kidneys and only one liver transplant were transplanted. How did the transplant work in 2000, and you didn't mind it so far, and you didn't even have a problem with unsatisfactory health care, so now all of a sudden in an emergency procedure, overnight, you'd raise it to a higher level? How come you don't mind so far that no heart transplants, no pancreas transplants have been done until 2000? The sick Serbian citizens were able to get a new heart abroad at 70,000 to 300,000 euros, which the Institute did not refund, while today a programme of heart and liver transplants in Serbia was almost completely stopped. 13 years ago, on July 5th 1995, the main news in all media was the simultaneous heart and liver transplant of two patients. Successful transplants continued. How was that possible at the time of the sanctions and the general nonsense, and today it's in the realm of the impossible mission? Serbia was among the first countries to perform organ transplants, and now it is the unfamous almost last place in Europe. Novi Sad was the second transplant centre in Yugoslavia 15 years ago. Mr. Minister, please respond to what happened in 2000, since the government is in various positions in power, and you are running the fourth term of the Minister of Health, and why is Serbia the last to be donated by the authorities? In Serbia, through the drama of uncertainty when and whether they will ever get an organ that means their lives to thousands of people. The kidney is currently waiting for over 1,600 people, liver from 80 to 100, and no one knows the exact number. In your reasoning of section 5 relating to the financial resources necessary for the implementation of the law, it is not necessary to provide additional resources in the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia for the implementation of this law. Then, you note that the work of the Biomedicine Administration does not require the hiring of new staff at the Ministry of Health, but will be provided in the framework of a defined number of employees in this ministry. With this explanation, you support my claim that there will continue to be unnecessary accumulation of administration, spending of money, and no reduction of the state administration in the Ministry of Health will be planned. Unskilled and unprofessional persons in the area of transplantation will be re-arranged to the biomedicine administration. Mr. Minister, can you now respond to the citizens of Serbia and MPs in the National Assembly how many currently employed experts and scientists at the Ministry of Health who are dealing with transplants and who are constantly employed in the said ministry? In the proposal for a transplant law, Article 68, you are introducing foreign experts in biomedicine management. In the sixth position of the same member, you shall state – for the work of external experts, the compensation determined by the director of the Biomedicine Administration. I'm asking you, what exactly is here? This is another reason why SRS MPs do not vote for the proposed laws. We believe that the Biomedicine Administration should be a closely specialised professional and scientific body, which should not be in the Ministry of Health. Also, we suggest that the list of experts commissions must have at least five members of the most innovative experts and scientists in the field of transplant medicine and blood transfusions with long experience. Where do you at the Ministry of Health have experts and scientists with practical years of experience? Experts and scientists from the transplant medicine and blood transfusions can't learn this narrow medical work at the Ministry of Health. These people, doctors specialists with professional and scientific titles, work day and night in specialised health institutions, where, besides theoretical knowledge, they gain practical experiences that are invaluable for transplants. Article 65 speaks of the director of the Biomedicine Administration, who is appointed by the Government for five years. Inexplicably and inaccurately proposed qualifications of the director of the Biomedicine Administration, as the said article states that it must be a prominent expert. Mr. Minister, you are a professor, an expert in gastroenterology, and I ask you to explain to the citizens of Serbia and to the MPs whether you are a prominent expert in the mentioned area and what are the criteria by which you choose prominent experts? Are these docents, professors, academics from the field of transplants or experts who have the highest number of transplants performed, with the least possible side effects and consequences? Is the most important criterion belonging to a political party or to knowledge? So, Minister, answer as a member of the government, because the government is responsible for the people and this assembly, will the Biomedicine Administration do the tasks of the state administration or will it do science and profession, which cannot be done in the Ministry and in the proposed way? So that I don't owe it, I'll just mention that in many members of this law there are inaccurate terms, e.g. In many ways, Article 56 mentions these words “in a reasonable time. ” What does that mean? What time is this? Who can determine what reasonable time it is that members of the deceased’s family in a specific situation, when emotions interfere with reason, should make a decision about taking organs? Also, in article 44, there are "limits of acceptance" of words that are mentioned. What are reasonable, professional and moral limits of acceptance, if there is already a risk to the life and health of the donor, what creates the possibility of abuse and manipulation? Article 62. "Second Close Face," an expression that is imprecise and where subjective interpretations are possible. For us, all this is unacceptable and sufficient reason to vote against these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24641	Mr. Milos Aligrudic is advertising his Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24642	And the injuries of the Rules of Procedure can be ranked by some weight. It's not every injury that's caused by the same weight. The one I point to isn't some flagrantly severe injury, but there is. It's possible that I wouldn't point out to her that we're discussing at three or four o'clock in the afternoon or 11 o'clock in the morning, but at 10:00 p.m., I just have the will to do it because there's an injury. In fact, it's about you, first of all, the injuries refer to the chairman. Don't worry too much, and when you tell me you don't think it's an injury, I won't ask to make a statement in the voting day. It's just that I want to point out to you most well-meaningly. In Article 27, there are rules that make you look after the application of the Rules of Procedure, so it is a general provision to which I call, but also to Article 96, which clearly tells you that if you want to participate in a search or debate, and every comment from the previous speaker that qualified the content of his speech, means, I am talking about the content, not the form that you carry out when you break down with us, it's not a controversy, it's an explanation that you give, it's legitimate and regular, but when you speak and qualify for the content of the speech. As you did when the minister spoke, so you talked about that he was reasoned, etc., it's not up to you to speak. You've turned my attention to your previous reaction to the previous speaker and to being thrown out of the O.R. They are some kind of illicit controversy, which you have the right to point out, but when you do, then don't let yourself not use the right of Article 96, that when you want to participate in the debate, you should sign up as a speaker and have one of your fellow vice presidents replace you for that time. That's the best I can do. If you don't think that you have offended the Rules of Procedure, I'm not asking that we make a statement on this in the voting day, although I think it certainly constitutes a violation of the Rules of Procedure on your part.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24643	Mr. Aligrudic, it seems to me that when you see me and on the street, you have the impression that I'm doing some damage to the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Pai Boys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24644	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's continue this theater of absurdity. All of us are less and less, but what we're going to do is give them the chance they are. I wonder why Mr. Minister in his presentation...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24645	Mr. Momchilov, I'm sorry, please, I'll take this time into consideration. Your parliamentary group, Mr Markicevic, has taken full time. I'm sorry, you don't have another minute. Here you go, Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24646	I wonder why Mr. Minister resents that there are some here who criticise and who are constantly criticizing. I happen to be a member of the opposition and the opposition has one single task to criticise. So the good opposition only criticises. I'm surprised, when you all the time, here's who comes in now to start a mantra who used to be and what was, how terrible everything was, how great it was now and how some were ministers in the past. If you have that need, turn around a little bit more behind your back, so you and your coalition partners eat well and tell them what you've got. You've been responsible here for the actions you've done since you've been in power. We're talking about events that are happening to us now, and that's the whole point. That story has already come out, and there is no need for you to tell MPs in the Assembly. You were jumping a little bit, I don't know what you were excited about. There's no need to be excited. Yeah, I saw it. You threatened smokers with black days waiting for them in the halls. You don't have to do that, you don't have to do that when we're MPs. So, I'm just saying that Mr. Secretary would do better if he came to the Health Committee sessions. The Health Committee held 16 sessions. Mr. Secretary was on two. It's something that's worrying, far more than if someone from the opposition criticises. In my opinion, we may disagree, but let's move on. The question is, why isn't the Minister coming to the Committee's meetings? That would be interesting to hear. Then when someone says, "Don't, people, put the wrong words on some people who don't mean what you thought they meant, "inconsequential," that's some kind of black criticism. It's not. It's objective, realistic and constructive criticism. You can say -- it's not true, inconsistencies mean something else, what I meant. Then you're right. But you're not having such a discussion. You're having a discussion of what happened earlier, you're leading in your explanations, you're copying members of the law simply, you're interpreting the same facts, and then you're telling us -- why urgently, in order to create conditions more urgent to ensure a high level of health protection for citizens. Wait, get down on the ground. This is Serbia. You saw, your own staff in Batut wrote that your general mortality from 2002 to 2006 went up 1.6%. It's a fake, it's not a black review. You don't want to know that. You need to know that if you're one of the health ministers. That's what interests us people's MPs, who don't have as responsible a function as you do. That's what Serbian citizens are interested in. It's not criticism, it's reality, but black reality, really. Of course, when there were sanctions and there was war that some things were bad and they were going downhill. Since 2000, you have loans, you have an international community, you have tenders, and the results are 1.6% worse mortality, and underdeveloped countries of the world and the medium-developed succeed in stabilising general mortality. What measures? The one you're just campaigning for, promoting health and preventing disease. The whole world is discussing today an economic crisis and what to do in health in terms of the economic crisis. You travel around the world, say you hold lectures, but this is not a topic for the Serbian parliament. There's no crisis here, of course there's no crisis for you. It's an autistic thing, when in this House we're not discussing these vital problems of the system that you're headed. Let me get out of this debate right now, it's a vain debate for sure. Let's deal with these laws a little bit more. There's no malice, we've invested thinking about every law by 20 amendments. We have consulted experts, we are not smart to know each other, the top experts Serbia has, along with them we have formulated these amendments. You don't deny, of course, what we say, but you qualify. All of what I said as an insult with no answer has been denied, and you're giving a lesson. Get down on the ground. Do you know what it means? Now, if we go from this law, tortured, to blood transfusions and action, how much money has gone to projects? He started the project in 2002, five million euros, then another two million euros, and then, if you look at what the goals are and how far we've come, you won't have a very beautiful and optimistic picture of how good we are, as we had the most giving in 2006. I don't believe it, I'm saying that we had the greatest donation in the war conditions in 1999 and that it was 2.9% at that time. On the Health Committee, we discuss the problems of transfusions and we are told by the director, Mrs Draskovic, how great the situation is now, and on the same site we see that the percentages do not correspond to a great situation. Serbia should have 4% of its funding to meet its needs. You've said the word - we had the biggest in 2006 giving, and on June 6th, "Politics" and all the agencies are publishing a report on agency -- in Belgrade blood for one and a half days. Read the papers, you'll see. It is, it will be said, it's a summer shortage, this, that, but that's our problem. If we look at what was needed to bring about this transfusion service reform and these projects, in these projects, when five million euros were spent, you bought machines that are given gratis to use chemicals, you bought from budget tools at the same time. We've got the papers, they're standing. You'll call it destructive criticism, maybe compared to you, but it's a fact and a fact. You said – the agency will be set up for transfusion problems, may be added to the medicine agency. What'd you do with it? Not to get into what you don't respect at all, voluntary blood donors. Here, in front of me are letters from two organizations of the humanitarian blood donor association, you write abroad, unfortunately, also to European officials. We have an alliance of voluntary blood donors from the Republic of Serbia, which says there are 10,000 members. That I don't read to you what they write to us, they write to you. Here, just a few of their views on this bill of yours, not to be the evil intention of an evil man, intoxicated with hatred – the bill does not define the provision of strategic blood reserves and blood products, but prevents professional methodological instruction. True, the law is more like a professional and methodological instruction. This law requires that 20 sublegal acts arise or arise. What did you write the law? Which is incomplete, so it doesn't cover everything that needs to be covered by one law, about not talking. If you take the Health Protection Act, and you look at just what one blood transfusion facility should do, then tissue tipping, then a bunch of things, but this law of yours won't regulate it. Where are you going to regulate that, underlaws? At the time of Milosevic, you said, Milosevic is ruling under the laws and regulations. No matter what, Milosevic is a small child, you rule underlaws and regulations. Count how many sublaws and regulations you have. What's the problem? The problem is, it's non-transparent. We here when the law is passed, we discuss, we debate, we face opinions. You have the impression that we hate you, that we're your enemies, I don't know, and when you bring in a sublegal act, we don't see it, we see it eventually in the official messenger. That's the problem. If you object to my malice, you know what, I am a gynecologist, and I have spoken to my colleagues, and you have not completed the final debate, you have remained in their debt. You promised another reading. They didn't get it, and then you, say, write it, here, and the layman can easily see that something's wrong. In vitro embryo is an embryo outside the body of a human being. That really doesn't make sense. What's an abortion embryo? He's out of human being and it's in vitro to you. Just a translation of in vitro, which means, if a man literally translated it, a man of general culture knows. It stands here in your law like this. My colleagues don't agree with that. Don't embarrass us. Or, give us a definition of what you read to us, you read everything, you can't speak by heart. Say the definition of public health by heart. Here, please meet me. Let's see what that looks like. Treatment of infertility, you list everything, but where's your banish-climate treatment? You don't admit it. It's a recognised branch of medicine and it's one of the important branches of auxiliary treatment. No, you skip it, and then you say, "This one's evil, this one's come to live." Well, it can't, it's not in Europe. What is crucial, what we are trying to explain to you, of course, you will not even consider it – you cannot, when these laws are in question and the areas they regulate, these are areas of highly sophisticated science and the profession of the highest rank to put the regulatory body in your ministry. Why? Because you're incompetent to the profession and science. As competence is achieved, it is known – academic titles, professional titles and references. We have well-intentioned to you that if you are already building an administration and locating it with you, please also form expert commissions of about five top experts who will bring the doctrine. Look, you name a bunch of things about the administration, then suddenly the doctrine of the matter, follows science in the world and decides what will be applied in Serbia. It can't be done in the administration, it has to be done by experts. And when I say that, I say it on behalf of my colleagues, and they tell you that. These things can't go without the profession and science, Serbian, foreign, whatever you want, but I just can't be in the administration. I see you're now getting to know the law of curiosity, so, well, it's not a bad time in these hours to take this time and to do it. What I have to say is that when we say the non-governmental sector you don't respect, it's just these people voluntary blood donors, depending on voluntary giving. We've also had a chance to talk to people who are on dialysis. You received them once, their remarks once, still no. You didn't have the strength, e, these revolutionary ones, to try to meet them and take that step that Rubicon would take, and if it were cadaverically given to your legislation, it could still be raised to a higher level. We will have a debate in particular, of course, we will present all of this then, and what I absolutely want to say, many solutions in your laws follow a trail of your procedures in the Serbian health system that we criticise and which we consider to be, not that you are responsible, you have done already, you are in that position long and in which you are, what you have and you have been able to do, are now responsible for those who keep going and it is quite clear. Now, in this law, let's say about insemination, it's quite a close law to me, and I end up with this profession and watch what you say in the fertilization law - institutions that have the right, right, to deal with these affairs, and Article 13 says this - the right to carry out biomedical support procedures have the first health institutions or parts of a health care institution from a network of health institutions brought by the government. Then under number two - health institutions established in private property according to the law. Now, watch it this way, when the state institution can part it, and when it's private, it can't. You didn't mind showing good results of out-of-body fertilization, which you put in this pamphlet, where you can see that five percent are better results in institutions where private property is, and everybody knows that the odds will be far greater for the success of what you say should be commended. Of course, it should be commendable that you've allocated funds to these people, and it's not controversial, but look at the results, they're telling you clearly. They are the most objective criterion, not subjective feeling or what may be something that is already becoming a problem in our society, that private practice is located on the margins, completely excluded from the system, just going to a couple of institutions with which contracts are concluded, and that is one example of showing, but it cannot be brought to life and to be of wider proportions. These results show what the private sector can do and they are achieved before you have made a commitment to those private-owned institutions that they want to do, that they have to be a hospital. That's what you need to know. In the organ transplant law, only state institutions can do a transplant. You say - in Croatia like this, there. Well, there's more Mercury transplants in Croatia than a state hospital. Mr. Minister, according to the Constitution, our private and state-owned property is equal. Private property will regulate many problems with Serbian health care. The problem is waiting lists. You know, if you include the private sector you'll have waiting lists reduced, you'll have a healthy competition. What are you doing? You're playing private practice in a state-run institution, in the morning of the state doctor, in the afternoon with state appliances, all the citizens paid for, private business. We take people's money out of their pockets. The patient must be in position, that's what Mr Dimitrijevic was saying. We're making a story now, but unfortunately, we don't have a chance. We're having deaf conversations, and this is what I'm talking about for those citizens who, in the late night or early mornings, might still look at this. Until you get a citizen to choose, which is a choice – yes, I want to go to a private doctor and a state doctor, you haven't evened out and you don't have a fair and equal relationship with these two systems. Of course, I'm not advocating hypertrophy at all. I don't advocate being introduced overnight. You had projects for a small million, so I don't count them. That 50 million project, four health centers. A Valjev hospital is being built, the King is now thinking about how he'll finish his job. What about the crow? Did you say anything about the crow? Have I ever heard of crows? The crow is part of that project. What about Zrenjanin? Project completed. Reading items from the Royal Hospital? I can't think of it, it'll be the police and the authorities, and you've got the papers, they're going around Serbia. Unfortunately. That's one problem. He's throwing me tenders now. No, that's what we'll talk about next time, now we're talking about these laws. I want to appeal to you. You obviously don't read the laws. Read the amendments, read the laws, level it. Say, gentlemen, you're not right here, this is a material lie, this doesn't say in the dictionary, this doesn't say in the medical textbook. So we're talking, human if we can, so I'll say sorry, Mr. Minister, we were wrong, we're withdrawing the amendments. No, there's no talking about it, but it has qualifications. Who was on the board of directors of a s? But where you've all been, how many boards of directors you've been and how much money you've been fighting, if I took it to count, that would be bad for the people. When we talk about these laws, if we want to talk seriously, we can't rule out what's pretty important to me, and that's what all this is about, and voluntary blood donors. You deafen up, I won't. Answer what they wrote to you, I ask of you. I don't want to read, I don't want to embarrass you. Answer the letter of voluntary blood donors. Answer what centralization will lead to? You will say, yes, it does not say in the law. Of course it doesn't, it'll write in a sublegal act and write in a network, and we won't see it. We regionalize the state, you force us to legalize, you create a destruction of Serbia, and where there should be regionalisation of rights, you do not allow it. What's the regionalization system good? To allow one population in one territory, clearly defined, to have everything that all Serbian citizens have. The minister laughs, he has as much as he needs, he doesn't care about the citizens. She's laughing and the assistant, she's got enough. Her region's the one down there south. Mr. Minister has this region. It's enough for them and they can laugh, and it's fun for them. We're having a sad and inappropriate conversation at an inappropriate time, and we're not having a concrete conversation. We have submitted the amendments, when you answer to see what you will answer and whether it will be debated, colored with hatred. Or, I give you the figures, and you say, in law, a woman can go into an artificial insemination program up to the years that are favourable. What does that mean? I give you concrete figures, I look at the Belgian law, I look at the Czech law, so we suggest numbers, and we know we're thinking about our population. It's pointless to donate egg cells over 35, it's learning knowledge somewhere. Why don't you just make it sound normal? No, you'll do it under the law. Why? Do you see those laws of others? And since you're very inclined to get out of the topic, the story of corruption has been initiated. Is the world crazy, really, right now I'm asking you that. Since you've been making all kinds of comments and talking about smoking, I don't mind, it's evil, there's always a word to say, but it's not very appropriate at this time when these laws are passed at this time. "GRECO' and Kos say health is at the top of corruption. You've never noticed that. How's that? You're the man who sees the most. You're in the highest place. His guy says-- who's up there that guy sees more, right? They never mentioned it, and this one says "GRECO" and says Kos, and a bunch of others say, but this is a country where there's only talk of fighting corruption and unfortunately it turns out that "Europeans" are the main verbal protagonists of fighting, heroes of harmless situations. They fight in the witness, but they don't fight in particular. Here's a concrete example, in Novi Sad, there's been a proven robbery by buying sterilization. He's surprised the minister doesn't read the paper. That's already been written five times. The subject has been examined until the end. He went to the judge, returned it to the D.A.'s office. The D.A.'s been holding for four months, and then what's he doing? Transfer the item to Valjevo, and this one to Valjevo, what it does, better in three days' time, there are no elements to initiate the procedure. The judge has scheduled a trial. It's all proven. The man who runs that operation at the head of the union today didn't die in a god-awful car accident, where his driver's car flew into the tunnel and barely stayed alive, but he was told before that - you won't be alive. Now, my Mr. Minister, why don't you protect those health workers who are truly fighting corruption? You don't know. Here, I told you. Now, let's take action, let's show ourselves, and let me take off your hat. By telling your mantras what happened, I'm telling you, when you have that wish next time, feel free to talk to your coalition partners and tell them all about it, and continue to love together. That's what I have to tell you, and in the discussion in particular, we're going to all be specific about what we've put in place as a remark, to want to hear your answer, not to listen to your qualifications, your circulation. Stick to the facts. They're a lot worse for you. Hey, infectious diseases are growing in Serbia, they say - better registration. Where's your information system? You don't have an information system, and how many projects have you spent? Why don't you? We know, we'll tell you - he's got the next law. We'll explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24647	Mr Miroslav Markicevic is advertising his Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24648	Dear President, as I have summed up the time that is few New Serbia has to discuss, I think our parliamentary group has one minute and five seconds left. It is your will that you believe and allow me to speak for those minutes and five seconds, but I waited until 23.15 to say that minute. Your silence gives me a signal that you'll allow me to say a few sentences. Mr. Minister, I came today and I stayed up late with some plan to talk about health care, I think it's a system of 120,000 people, if I'm not mistaken, in an affirmative and positive sense. Why do we keep saying that five or six or 2% of people in any state service who don't work very well? Why don't we once not talk about 97 or 98% of people who do a decent, honest and honest job. But after your performance here, which was extremely discriminatory and disqualifying towards the MPs here, who don't all have to be doctors and professional, I'm going to have my discussion, but when it's a direct transfer, Mr. Minister, prepare yourself, very argumentably, I'm going to ask the hard questions, because for years as a patient, I've been watching what's going on in our health institutions. So then you'll have to show the citizens of Serbia, to explain your top political principle, because you're not here because you're professional and I don't doubt it at all. You're here because you're a politician, because you're a minister, it's a political function, to answer how you applied that principle of "expert in front of politics" in Serbia's health centres, you'll be surprised. Recently, I was unwarrantedly warned by the president. Is it possible that you didn't hear that the patient killed with a fire extinguisher at a health center? Is it possible that you haven't heard that patients are being charged parking? I don't want to talk about other laws, who's authorized in this country to charge for parking? Did you hear that in one town there's a man coming to give blood and while he eats one sandwich, and I'm one of them, I'm not very respectable by the number of blood donations, to charge him for parking? (President: Time. Do you have any idea how many rows there are in front of the infirmary? (President: Mr Markicevic, thank you. Finish your sentence. ) A man waits five hours to be examined and his parking charge is charged, did you hear about it? Not likely, I'll remind you, but when it's a direct transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24649	It's a complex sentence. Mr. Zoran Krasic has ten and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24650	Just enough to point out that these bill proposals actually prove that there is no health system in Serbia. It doesn't exist, although it's likely that the creator of this condition is someone who's been in all combinations for seven years doing the job of the Minister of Health. Why do I claim that there is no health system, or there is a nakaradic system, which can thus be boasted in golden discussions and manifested as something epochal? The system does not exist for the simple reason that that citizen who has been working for 35 years and independent of his will, the company in which he works, pays contributions for compulsory insurance and on the burden of the employer and the burden of personal income on the employee, and when after 35 or 40 years of employment and payments of those contributions he goes to examine, he has to wait, to pay, to seek a relationship. The question arises -- where are the funds he has allocated and how it is possible that one of the Kaiser's systems is in Serbia, where it is so-called. The ongoing financing of health care, got instead of the suit on the stripes white coat? That's the question we need to consider. I was surprised when I looked at this law that regulates transfusions, that is, this activity, and I found it very easy to conclude that this activity has existed in our country so far and has not been regulated by a special law. I was simply amazed because I concluded that there was no heart, kidney, pancreas management, but that it was a matter of medical profession and that in the financial part it was regulated through the Department of Health Security, in that professional medical via the Republic Health Services and that this third pillar of our national health was the Ministry. Now I've come to the conclusion that artificial insemination is not a health care service, it's not a regular health service, that organ transplant is something new, so first I thought it had to be regulated by a special law because it's being hacked into something called human rights. Excuse me, please, and when there's open-heart surgery, it's also going into something called human rights. That's proof there's no system. The system depends on the individual and his ability to make his eloquence a problem so media-important that then, according to Santa's system, someone appears on behalf of the government as the one who brings in a gift scanner and some other important devices for the functioning of health care. When I walk where I live, so when a man tells me to visit a health station on Swan Hill, he has to go to check in today to get in the afternoon or tomorrow, provided it doesn't rain. If it rains, then there is no minimum health care, and there it breathes in mind – do not breathe, what is the pressure etc. And behold wonders, even the minister lives in the territory of that municipality. I thought the health system meant that both the one in the village, the one in the city and the one in Belgrade must have the same level of health care, must have the same rights. It must be guaranteed, the state must guarantee it, and the state has its own mechanisms and these are the two pillars – the Institute of Health Protection and the Health Insurance Office. One professional, other financial, and the Ministry here as something that regulates, something that controls, something that collects everything and designs what it's supposed to be like to have that health care so that no one feels threatened, hurt, especially the one who's been paying for 35 years, so he gets sick for the first time, and goes and disappoints and convinces him of everything the neighbors tell him. That's our problem. And what we must be worried about, is – what is the cause of artificial insemination in Serbia? What? Food? Youth medication? The absence of physical education? There must be some reason. Until 20 or 30 years ago, there was a sentence on the border that she gave birth and then two days later she went to work on that same field. Is it possible that today without medical care it is almost impossible to ensure a safe pregnancy. What happened? We're dealing with the consequences, what's the cause? Could it be the cause of two hours of physical education, is it because of the diet, some new habits? Is there some kind of juicicillin that might have caused it? Could it have been caused by additives in sour milk? I don't know. The waist needs to answer that question. Just to draw your attention to one thing, thirty years ago and a few years ago, during that time of SIZ health care, there was a discussion on whether a labour law should be amended that would simply prevent doctors from having a double working relationship. At that time I lived in Nis, and then a man who was very cheerful and dressed in health was a neuropsychiatrist, named Peda Vidojkovic, an extremely good man and an expert. He went to the committee and said, "get out of the way." In two minutes, I'll stage a white coat strike for you. You see, at that time the threat was a strike of white coats, and now white coats deal with some other business, and tendering, and staffing, and a relationship with pharmaceutical firms to go to counseling abroad, and many other jobs, and it is, the fact is, today it is also dropping the quality of these doctors and specialists because of some lagging behind. We also have this medical caste that absolutely depends on everything. I was expecting in a new system that the Ministry, over those two pillars where resources and quality are provided and what is called waist, would also ensure the equality of all those on the market. We used to learn that health services aren't on the market. And when they told us that the health services were on the market, because all health care facilities were negotiating with the SIZ Health Services how much it costs some service, and how much a hospital day, and how many services can be provided over the year. The drugs used to be pretty cheap and free. Today it's paid even though for 35 years you've kept going for health care. What about solidarity? Who ate this solidarity, since this Kaiser system is based on both a very significant part of it and solidarity, that those who separate contributions practically finance and enable, what it is like for those who do not work, what it is to those who are pensioners, what it is to those who are entitled under the law to health care to use that health care. Is it possible the Ministry could be a health funder? I guess it's just some transmission that will announce to the government that it plans additional funds in the budget that cannot be provided from regular incomes to complete the work through these health institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-20-0.u24651	Time, just bring the end, please. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask whether the word is represented or the president of the parliamentary group, or who has not yet used the right set out in Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I am concluding a joint principle search on the proposal for a law on public health, a proposal for a law on transfusiological activity, a bill on organ transplants and a proposal for a law on cell and tissue transplants, as well as a bill on the treatment of infertility by biomedical assisted fertilisation. Thank you for your cooperation. I thank Mr. Minister and Mrs. Karanovic, as well as all MPs who took active participation. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
