ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33787	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 112 MPs attend the session. To precisely determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs: Milica Radović, Đuro Peric, Konstantin Arsenović, Donka Banović, Vladimir Milentijevic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Laslo Varga, Željko Tomic, Branko Ružić, Djordje Milicevic. I would like to inform you that I agree with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of promoters Diana Dragutinovic, Finance Minister Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure and Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, called for both Višna Kuzmanovic and Aleksandra Popovic, junior advisers at the finance ministry. We move to a joint single search of the 7-11th item of the agenda: – PROPOSES OF THE CONFORMITY OF THE SERBIA Agreement: WITH IBRD (development of the private, financial sector and public finances), WITH THE EBRD (loan of K10) AND SA EIB (the Highway Corridor 10 and the loan for municipal and regional infrastructure B) So, on the proposal for a law on the approval of the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Programme for the Development of Public Finance), the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia on the European Investments and the Republic of Croatia's Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty for the Treaty on the Treaty on Trade and the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Europeans of France and the Treaty on the Treaty on the Europeans of France of France and the Treaty on the Treaty for the Europeans between the European Regional. Do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or the president of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. Mr. Vlajko Senić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33788	The esteemed chairman, lady ministers, respected MPs, that this debate on Serbia's borrowing, as the accompanying law of the new 2010 budget, would not pass as just another and additional borrowing of the country, I would like to say that we as a parliamentary group will support this set of laws, because we believe that the structure of the 2010 budget is so necessary that Serbia's additional investment borrowing is necessary for the realisation of infrastructure projects. In a situation where most of the Republic of Serbia's budget is filled with VAT, excise and non-taxable revenues and in a situation where again the largest part of the Republic of Serbia's budget, due to inherited historical and demographic reasons, goes to pensions and salaries in the public sector, it is necessary for Serbia to invest additionally in infrastructure and I think these laws are a good basis for borrowing and increasing, on the one hand, domestic liquidity, given that these financial resources will be made available to the government to spend in the coming year, through their investment and increasing aggregate demand, these are two factors that will inevitably and likely seriously contribute to the projected GDP growth of 1.5% as planned by the Memorandum of Monetary and Fiscal Policy for 2010. It should also be said, and this has already been considered in some way at the session of the Finance Committee that these two biggest and key loans we have received, one of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the other of the European Investment Bank, are given on the best possible terms when we talk about the time period of credit repayment. So, this loan that we got from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development was given to 15 years with a grace period of four years, and the loan that we got from the European Investment Bank was given on a deadline of 30 years with a grace period of six years. It is important to say, for example, that the credit we received from the European Investment Bank for Corridor 10 for track E - 75 is only part of the structure of a total of 963m euros, how much we need to invest in that part of the infrastructure. In addition, there is a loan from the World Bank of 155m euros and a donation from the government of Greece of 100m euros, with the guaranteed own funds of the borrower up to 330m euros. I believe that, given the structure of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia and the criteria that Serbia will have to meet two thousand and we will see what year, when it enters the EU and when it joins the Eurozone later, the state has quite enough room for debt under these conditions, since the burden of public debt in 2009 has not exceeded 33% and that with this additional debt in the next two years, public debt will be no more than 35% of GDP. I will remind our viewers and fellow MPs that the EU-friendly border is 60% of GDP. I think the government's decision to have far greater expenditure on capital investments than it was last year, which will be followed by an additional goal and by a debt to invest in infrastructure, a factor that will lead to a serious increase in demand in the domestic economy, and that in this way we will iron out certain effects of the global economic crisis, which, of course, in Serbia, as in other European countries, will feel in 2010. Another project that is not directly related to this borrowing, which is a strategic project that the government, we believe, will realise next year, is an agreement with the Fiat Group. This is, of course, another opportunity for the citizens of Serbia to know the facts available to the public from the moment the agreement was signed, but which is often presented in a certain way that is not accurate to the public. I think it's important that everyone who listens to us and their followers know how things are and unlike some previous contracts, this joint investment agreement has been available to the public since the first day and regulates absolutely every relationship between each other. The contract envisions the creation of a new joint venture in which Fiat will have 67% ownership and the Republic of Serbia has 33% ownership. The role of Fiat in the founding capital of the joint society will be 200m euros in money, and our proportional stake will be 100m euros, out of which 50m will be in money, 50m euros in things and rights. So the relationship in this agreement is always such that it is two to one and that it is always the majority side, so the Italian side is the first one to move. To their two-euro investment, Serbia is obliged to invest one euro and guarantees issued on their side by two euros, the state of Serbia provides guarantees of one euro. Also, when we talk about loans for equipment, and there were one or two amendments to opposition MPs that the government rejected, who requested to delete that item, also here is the first in the Fiat move. So security of 200m euros for the purchase of equipment by Fiat obliges Serbia to provide 100m euros in funding. What is particularly important and the thesis that has been used is that the conditions under which this agreement has been concluded is something that has not been offered to other producers and something that is unimaginable in any other part of Europe. For the sake of truth, I'd like to say that on 27 December 2007, an invitation was issued to express the interest of the so-called so-called ". a prequalification tender for the flag. The idea was to invite all investors to come to the factory to look at the documentation, talk to management and see if there was a potential strategic partner who wanted to invest in the flag. Two companies appeared in the prequalification tender, so one Chinese and Folkswagen from Germany and both companies said they weren't interested, and the other were not interested. It's a sublime line, and there were no interested in selling in the tender. The basic reasons, i.e. what the state representatives could hear during the talks, is an argument that the old factory that produces old models in outdated technology and that in the last 15 years, directly from the Republic of Serbia's budget, therefore, we are talking about taxpayers' money, 500m euros in subsidies were invested, and that the company was always rules on an annual scale of 10,000 cars. To illustrate what the production looked like, I will say that the sale price was between four and a half thousand euros, and that only the producer price without tax and without some calculated profits was over six and a half thousand euros. After the tender failed, Fiat reported, who expressed his desire to open a new factory at the time, considering several locations in the region, in line with their investment plan. Negotiations have started, and this Joint Investment Agreement has been established on this basis. We succeeded, because we offered the best possible conditions, to outrun some countries that were also interested in realising this project on their territory. What was our advantage is that we still have a relatively low labour price and that the state could provide incentives that are not possible in EU countries because of appropriate legislation. That is the advantage Serbia is benefiting, which other EU countries have also benefited from, such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia, in its EU accession process. These are just some of the basic facts resulting from this joint agreement, and this is actually one of the government's basic tasks in the coming year, since, in addition to the accompanying problems of unemployment and high pension expenditure, high salary expenditure in the structure of our budget, in the structure of the social gross product, all economic analysts, regardless of whether they support or do not support Serbia's government and its economic and monetary policy, agree that Serbia's biggest problem can be the one that, on the medium and long term, can be devastating for our economy, very low participation, the structure of poor, exchangeable goods in the social gross product. What happened in the last few years, since 2000, is that we do not return to the time before that, is that there has been a decline in the participation of exchangeable products in the structure of Serbia's gross social product and in this way our potential for exports has been reduced, and thus the potential for economic growth has been reduced, because Serbia must in the coming period its economic growth is based on increased exports, because this way the economic growth that was in force until 2008, privatisation, the inflow of foreign direct investment through the purchase of domestic factories and companies, has exhausted all its potential and in the next period we can only count through an aggressive export support policy and through increased exports and through the reduction of the external trade deficit, achieving high levels of economic growth, and high levels of economic growth mean over four-five percent. So, try to get back to the way it was before 2008. It is precisely the primary task of supporting the industrial part of the economy in Serbia, and therefore I believe that the implementation of this project in the coming year, both in the short and medium-term and strategic, will affect the increasing export potential of our country and thus contribute significantly to the resolution of our most painful problem, and this is a very high external trade deficit. That's two things that matter. As I said, it has already been defined on the political scene of Serbia that we have so-called. morally justified borrowing, and I would say economically justified borrowing, as investment in infrastructure is a key task of this country over the next few years, because these are economical, I would say even social preconditions for Serbia to become a member in the shortest time period, a full member of the EU. Therefore, support for these agreements and will be seen, time will show that the conditions that we have received as a state are very favourable and that is a strategic one, I would say a historic investment that will be paid in a very short period of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33789	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have not used their right to answer, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the SPS-JS, New Serbia, the DSS, Advanced Serbia and the SRS. I give my word to MP Zoran Bortic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33790	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, the adoption of a set of laws confirming the loan agreement of the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, and international financial institutions, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, on the other hand, create favourable conditions in the Republic of Serbia for a stable development of public finances, to open prospects for the development of the private and financial sector and, most importantly, to complete the most significant infrastructure project in our country of Corridor 10 and the road infrastructure of regional and municipal importance in the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of these laws provides conditions for our country to get stable financial lines under relatively favourable conditions that will allow for the completion of Corridor 10. Corridor 10 is defined as a priority route in the framework of the development strategy for rail, road, water, air and intermodal transport in the Republic of Serbia from 2008 to 2015. It should not be ignored that Corridor 10 is defined as one of the van-European corridors that form the trans-European travel network and is based as a project goal at European transport ministers' conferences, held in Crete and 1997 in Helsinki. At the same time, the importance of building Corridor 10 was confirmed by the adoption of the framework programme of measures contained in the act of the Government of the Republic of Serbia -- the economic crisis and its impact on the economy. In this act, one of the key measures to overcome the economic crisis is to develop and build infrastructure through the construction of Corridor 10. This act has been approved that the construction of Corridor 10 will contribute to the liquidity of the economy thanks to the financial resources to be made available to the Republic of Serbia by international financial institutions. At the same time, implementation of infrastructure projects has been estimated to contribute to increasing domestic demand, which ultimately contributes to the prosperity of domestic economy. By building Corridor 10 and the regional and local road network that is on this corridor, our country will draw very close to European standards in the area of infrastructure, which is one of the strategic objectives designed by the ruling majority in this assembly. But more important than the fact that these significant projects will employ our construction operation over the next few years, which is, as is known, the momentum of development in every society, because when this branch is launched, many other accompanying branches and national economy are being employed through development. I will not say anything new if I point out that building Corridor 10 is the fastest and most favourable way to get our country out of recession and for prosperity and even development of the Republic of Serbia. That is why we need these laws because their adoption will open relatively favourable financial lines for the completion of strategic travel routes in Corridor 10 to build regional and local infrastructures, as well as for the overall development of public finances in our country. When I say relatively favourable financial conditions, I mean the fact that our country needs a national financial institution that will in perspective be the bearer of development projects of importance for Serbia. Such a financial institution, in which the formation of capital will also be involved by domestic insurance companies and other national companies, can be not only an investment vehicle for significant development projects, but also a partner and competitor for foreign banks in our country, which in a healthy competition will be forced to lower interest rates and invest surplus profits on our market under favourable conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SPS-JS parliamentary group particularly points to the importance of the laws we are discussing today because of the fact that their adoption will open the financial perspective for the completion of key infrastructure projects in our country, above all Corridor 10. These projects were also the most important pre-election programme objectives of our policy that we have built into a coalition agreement when forming the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I am pleased to point out that the Ministry of Infrastructure of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Mr Milutin Mrkonjic, is setting the end of Corridor 10 as a strategic goal of the ministry's operation. For this reason, it should be pointed out in particular that the realisation of this project is driven not only by our construction operation, but also by a huge number of other economic activities in our country, which contributes to the launch of the economic development of our country and the better social position of our citizens. I am convinced that this is also the best way Serbia will go to meet European standards. For this reason, I would like to point out that the SPS-JS Parliament Club will support and vote in favour of all proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33791	Thank you, Mr. Bortic. Mr. Miroslav Markicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33792	Dear Presidents, honourable Madam Minister, respected fellow Members of the People and citizens of Serbia who watch this direct transmission, I hope. I'm unusually glad that the Minister of Finance of our Government has shown up in the Assembly and I must say immediately that my presentation will not be written, I will speak from my head, as much as I have in my head and will not be nearly optimistic as with my colleagues Bortic. Madam Minister, I will stick only to the statement, the findings and facts that you've presented in the past few months. At first, I want to say that the questions I have been asking in this National Assembly for two or three months have not been answered by you and bookkeeper Mirko Cvetkovic, and all the other ministers and competent institutions, even some have started some proceedings, have answered. It leads me to doubt that you know something and are hiding from the citizens, and you will not say, as Mr Mirko Cvetkovic directly told the MPs here and the general public that he knows the answers to some questions, but he won't say. But they won't even turkey at the wedding, so I guess that's how it'll finally come up once and for all, where everyone's gonna be responsible for what he's been doing. When a country, and this set of accompanying laws, is talking about borrowing, or a citizen is individually in debt, that means that that country or that citizen doesn't have enough money, so he has to be in debt somewhere. I wonder if we, this financial sphere of ours, and you, as a financial expert, came to the stage when any credit, any money, to raise your hands, to make a celebration, as if someone had scored in the World Cup finals in the last minute. I'd like to ask you to answer some of the questions I'm going to ask here after my presentation. These questions I've been asking for two or three months, I haven't been asking for them personally, and I've also asked for the advice of the President of the Republic, Mr. Krstic, something personal, but I've asked for money. Some of your statements and some of the facts that have been happening in this country for the past year have led me to believe that there is money in the so-called. Inner reserves, just so you don't know where that money's going. I want to remind you that you said that for 130 billion dinars of budget funds at various levels, you probably thought in local and public enterprises, you don't know how to control them, that's fact number one. Fact number two for the past year, it seems to me that I heard this information, although I am not a financial expert, and I still have no bad memory, that the banks operating in the Serbian market had a profit of 400m euros, therefore, profits. This suggests that someone who may not be an economic expert in this country is not a financial crisis, because from where these banks would have so much profit. This means that those who have taken, start from citizens to businesses who have taken loans, zealously repay these loans, and it seems to me that I have read the information that citizens of Serbia and businesses are one of the best salaries, watching the countries of Europe. That means we don't have a financial crisis, Madam Minister. I think there's a crisis of morality and there's big letters, I want to point out here, corruption. So, what I'm saying is that in this country, by 10%, the corruption that's around the tops of the state, most of the government, it's by the nature of things, so, half of the money that we're supposed to give here is, in principle, some give it blank, it's great when you're taking credit, and everybody's asking who's saying it -- it's great to take credit, is he doing that in his house, he's not doing it for sure. Therefore, credit from world banks, which, of course, have so much money, is only taken under duress and when we don't know where we're going. We don't know where we're going because we won't tell the truth. There's money in this country, only there's no telling where that money's going and who's spinning it and who's using it. When I say money, I don't mean money from private faces and private companies, I mean money from the budget. The DRI report speaks of it, Madam Minister. You're caught with your fingers in a bear, in a jar. Instead of answering these questions, the findings found by the DRI, combing the ministry, it seems to me only 22% of what they could find, we, in response to the state, or you, or your first accountant, Mr Cvetkovic, have the answer that they reject independent institutions, refuse to find you, and then when they get from the real prime minister in this country, Mr Tadic, when the first accountant gets a message from video-link or I don't know as soon as they're heard, that they have to respect independent state institutions, then it's said, well, we'll see what we'll do with that. Then the president finds a member of the Rules of Procedure, where it cannot come to the agenda, in March, it will be on the agenda, as the president said here, that we are considering something from 2008. So the hard questions I'm asking, I'm not accusing you, I'm finding out what you said yourself. If four people in this country can earn in four years, you haven't answered that, 520m euros, why don't you, Madam Minister and Prime Minister Cvetkovic, set up an agency with 11 employees? We've already got 140, so let's make it 141, so we make it, so it's on the agenda today. Considering that this year is one of the most natural in the last 40 years and considering that there are 700,000 people who are hungry, that pensions are frozen, I think you have a moral obligation to answer these questions, especially pensions. When it was adopted that the pensions would increase at the beginning of your term, you were some positive signals, as far as I'm concerned, giving, and then you shut up and I realized that you were from economic waters, the financial expert I believe you were, into political waters. It is nice, gentlemen of pensioners, those who have 8,000-990 pensions to raise them 800 dinars, and those who have 80,000 to raise them by 10,000 dinars, so we will now freeze and we will talk every day about European rules, the European way of life, and we do not have pensions and salaries, and we have more prices than we are European. Therefore, the money has a Madam Minister. There's a minister your media, your controlled media, make of him, Mother Teresa, and what he's doing, his dead grandmother turns into a grave in Sarajevo, to have two parties. One at a local level, which is outrageous, to fool citizens again, that those who are disappointed in DS are being deceived, so that they vote for Rasim Ljajic. This is his resort. I'm sorry he's not here to explain. How, Master, when you've done so well, when you're even the most suitable prime minister, how some media say there are 700,000 hungry? I understand, I don't understand, but to accept that some people may not have the money to go to winter, to fly abroad with these white, now Schengen visas, or visa release, but that they don't have to eat, Madam Minister, that's what you're responsible for, because you won't tell the truth. Where are the salaries? Where's the money? These are issues that Serbian citizens want to hear, not various financial philosophies, the type of -- borrowing is good for our country. It's good for the survival of power, it's not good for citizens, because citizens and their children will be returning these loans for years. Mr. Prime Minister says, in his first statement, when the minister's responsibility was raised, he says -- the team that wins is not changing. It's been a long time since I've heard a more insolent and insolent statement. Who are you beating, Madam Minister, I'd like you to answer exactly? I'd understand if you'd say, colleague Markovic, take your word for it, please, let me finish. I'd understand if you'd say we won the May 2008 election. Guys, that's a fact, based on your victory, the government is formed. Who are you winning these two years? Who is the loser these two years during your power the most? I'd say citizens and those poorest layers. You can no longer cover this with any flossules and propaganda statements of the type - social justice. This country is a state of great social injustice. This country, as in any other country, is ruled by financial powers and financial capital. I can figure that out from the answers I got from the state authorities. A young colleague from the SPS recently told a show - a colleague, so hand it over to the state authorities. As much as he's interested in it, he doesn't realize that I've got all the answers and got it from the state authorities. The state authorities themselves gave me, and I think they gave you some facts, if you've read it. Then the question arises -- why aren't these state authorities responding to those papers that they gave themselves, where there's obviously something wrong? My answer, respected citizens of Serbia, is that there are many omega and respected workers who lie on the line for the tenth day, now at the minus, and the one who came to you and who told you about the other tycoon, and he has ten tycoons. If he wanted to solve it, why did it take you days to lie on the ground? Why is the question of workers and workers of the Tricotage "Raška" in Novi Pazar not resolved? That power should be proven to be socially responsible, not only to boast about the loans that the same workers will pay you back.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33793	The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33794	President-in-Office, respected minister, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the LDP understands and welcomes that today and these days a relatively high-quality debate on the set of laws that the Republic of Serbia owes next year, but we cannot accept the fact that almost a year ago we simply flew here in the Serbian Parliament of law that broke the budget of the Republic of Serbia by half a billion euros, raising linear pensions, or raising pensions in such a way that those pensioners who have extremely large pensions get even more, and those pensioners who live out of 10,000, 13,000 dinars, together with their pensions live and grandchildren, get very little. The LDP has launched and opened a fundamental debate that is important in our society for the last five days. This debate concerns intergenerational justice, i.e. distribution. What's the point, which is that you, Madam Minister and Government, have remained silent about what we talked about. That is, all those ministers who have been here these days have gone, leaving you, trying to defend what is impossible to defend, or yourself, as we in the LDP and the public knows, that there is no change and exit from the crisis currently in which the Republic of Serbia is, and especially with regard to the functioning of the PIO fund, without those requirements that the LDP spoke of in the previous period. In previous days, we also had to talk about why and how this fund was destroyed, but we also had to defend those pensioners living on the poverty line, or those 200 to 500,000 pensioners who, with minimum pensions, try not only to support their family, but also to support their grandchildren. Because, look, Madam Minister, what's the situation in Sandzak down there? Average unemployment is two to three times higher than at the republican level. How do you think Sandzak citizens live better in the next year? How do you think pensions are financed in 2010, if our economy doesn't work? How do you think pensioners come to realize what they've accomplished and earned in previous years, if there's no one to earn what they've accomplished? Also, Madam Minister, when we talk about pensions, you have to give us an answer - who's responsible for the collapse of the PIO fund? Why are the same people who led to the collapse of that fund today trying to buy our money the votes of the pensioners? We understand the need for the Republic of Serbia to be in charge of those segments of society in which we should progress, but we cannot understand that we are talking about this at the time when the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2010, which continues to be financed by those public enterprises that are chronic losers, or those public enterprises that have not tried to restructure in the past ten years at all. I have here the final account of the 2008 railway Serbia public company, which shows a loss of 15 billion dinars. By the 2010 budget, Madam Minister, we have provided subsidies of 12 billion dinars, of which 11 billion dinars will go for personal income. Also, the 2010 budget provides guarantees for the state for the railway, for a year of $600m and 800m euros. In this report, a consolidated 2008 financial report on the 15th page, it is said, so I quote -- a dependent legal entity of the CIP DOO Belgrade, the basis for the account of the employees' severances is determined by a higher amount than the one established by the Labour and General and Corporate Contract Act. It is not possible to assume whether they will continue with this method of reckoning. What's going on in that public company "Serb Railroad"? We haven't heard anything from you. We only heard from Mr. Mrkonjic, but we heard that same story he told last year about the stripes, about the new investments. Did you know, Madam Minister, that the "Serbian Railways" issue twice a month in a circulation of six thousand copies of their "Pruga" paper? I only have one side of that list here where the recipes are spoken of. Does a public company deserve this level of pay subsidies, and this is how a waste of money is done, that is, unwitting spending? Also, Madam Minister, if we are talking about a loan for municipal and regional infrastructure, this is too much about projects approved by the NIP, implemented by the Ministry of Infrastructure, and you are here defending this loan. Can you tell us what projects this is about? Do you have any information that, for example, the municipality of Priboj has received 0.00 dinars from the Ministry of the NIP in the last three years? Is this a fair distribution, is this how we develop evenly regionally? And what does it take for the Municipality of Priboj, as well as other municipalities, to deserve at least the attention of certain ministers? Also, Madam Minister, on Saturday, I asked you a question about the report and the study -- how to do more with less, which was done by the World Bank, and it refers predominantly to "Serb Railway", where they said exactly what steps it is necessary to take in the Public Undertaking "Serb Railway" to reduce those costs. Once again, I will point out in the report that most of the direct opportunities for improving the "Serb Railways" financial situation are on the dissipated side.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33795	The word has been made by MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33796	Dear Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we are discussing a set of laws in which the state of Serbia is additionally in debt for 755m euros, which has already been verified since the beginning of the year here in the National Assembly, some over three billion euros. What is particularly worrying is the total foreign debt of the state, public debt, debt of the economy and banks crossing 22 billion euros. We have confidence from the government that we are not overly in charge of the state, that there is room for additional borrowing, compared to some other EU countries and some other countries in our environment. Only this goes beyond the fact that these countries are much more economically developed than we are, that they are export-oriented and will in any case be much easier to service their obligations. There's a lot of risk in this public debt. The currency structure of our debt is extremely unfavourable, only 10% of the debt is in the dinars, while 90% of the debt is in euros and dollars, so even the smallest rate change can lead to a problem in paying off our debt. Not to mention the turbulence caused by a change in course over the last few days in the economy, that our economy has been damaged by about 40 billion dinars. The interest rate of the debt is currently favourable, given that 2/3 of the debt is taken at a fixed interest rate, however, the loans that are just now coming will change that structure and this relationship will change upwards, as these new loans are now being taken at a variable interest rate. It is true that the variable interest rate is currently low, but inevitably it will grow and can lead to major problems when paying off the debt. When the state is already in debt, these funds should be used for infrastructure, for export-oriented economy, for energy, or for something that will later yield revenue or create a more positive environment for private investment, and not, as this government has done so far, to cover the budget deficit and pay off those funds for direct consumption, because these loans must be returned. We are talking about five laws today, I will talk about the draft law confirming the financial agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank (Corridor 10). The DSS is aware of the importance and fully supports the completion of Corridor 10, as one of the most important pan-European corridors to which we will be linked to the rest of Europe. But what is illogical is that the work to complete the corridor, although it is a priority project in this country, is very slow. In 2009, it was planned to do 90km of this highway, and everything was done over half a mile [50 km], although the funds were provided for all of the 90km. It clearly shows that there are serious disagreements in the ruling coalition over who should call the tender, who will carry out the procedures, who will be responsible for the end of the corridor, which is why the company "Corridor 10" is formed, with some three-way authority, where representatives of the three political parties are represented and they rotate at the head of the Governing Board annually, probably due to some mistrust. While they agree on this Management Board, later the Ministry of Infrastructure, the National Investment Plan, spatial planning, all of this goes to the famous National Infrastructure Council, and then it's logical why, despite the funds provided, it's not 90 kilometers of time but only 50. Since I come from the Zlatibor County, I will say a few words about the Belgrade highway -- the South Adriatic. The government, immediately after coming to power, annulled the concession to build the Horgos-Požega highway and since then we have continued promises and announcements that the construction of the highway from Belgrade to Požega will begin. The 2010 budget planned two billion dinars to start building the highway, which is 20m euros, which is about threekm of road. If we build that road with that dynamic, in about 50 years, there's a chance he'll get to Požega. I would indeed appeal to the government, given that the Zlatibor County is the largest district in Serbia and takes over 11% of Serbia's territory, there is 4.6% of Serbia's population, has a solidly developed economy with good prospects, however, we are completely isolated and this prevents us from developing further. The territory of Zlatibor County includes significant tourist centres: Zlatibor, Tara, Zlatar, Mokra Gora, which play a significant role in the overall tourism transport in Serbia. Also, further perspectives and the development of these tourist centres are very narrow, given the extremely poor traffic infrastructure. These days we had announcements of the start of the construction of the road from Pojat, via Kruševac, Kraljev, Čačka, Užica and further to Republika Srpska. It's a good initiative, but I urge you to move from word to deed and start once with road construction. The highway from Belgrade to Požega, then via Užica, Zlatibor, Nova Varoshi, to the Montenegrin border, is one important assumption for the further development of the entire Zlatibor district and for this reason I call on you to provide for larger budgets and to provide credit lines to finally begin with the implementation of the project.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33797	Dear Members of the People, in accordance with Art. 37th and 38th. I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that, due to the absence of the president and deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, the SRS parliamentary group will represent MP Zoran Krasic until they return. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33798	In the context of a joint debate on the proposals of the law on the validation of the debt agreement, there are five, the time that I am at my disposal I will use to explain two, to say non-purpose loans which have no intended purpose for use, and they represent a phenomenon that is significant, in the sense that we have no investment effects at all, as well as the purposes for these funds, because as they are defined in these loans, where only funds are provided for the development of public finances or money for the development of the private and financial sector, and in fact money is obtained for already promised activities which, frankly, I must say, have not given positive results in the areas for which the changes are proposed and are delivered to these banks, from which credit is sought. For us as MPs, these invitation letters in which you have made development strategies, for example. The banking sector or those of whom you are asking for credit qualified with the results achieved in the field of bankruptcy legislation, public procurement, as you state in one of these documents, in the sale of actions of social enterprises, in the proposal for a law on state aid control, the protection of competition, I do not think I can give you consent as an MP on behalf of the SNS for the borrowing of adopted laws that need to bring about changes, but do not go in favour of this society, and above all do not go in favour of the development of this country. I'm asking a basic question, where do you get the right to take risks on behalf of all of us by taking loans to fund a system that doesn't work? Your will to take responsibility does not mean, at the same time, your right to take huge financial resources with the intention of covering the deficit, whose structure we cannot assess as justifiable, so that we can cover those deficits. The problem of this society is just an unexplained structure, until yesterday's foreign exchange reserves, when you boasted that you had stable foreign exchange reserves, and they didn't encourage exports, they didn't encourage government foreign foreign exchange deficits, they had to keep part of the mandatory foreign exchange reserve with the National Bank. When we said it was not a stable foreign reserve, it was silent until the moment when it proved that the structure of the foreign reserve was not due either to the National Bank and its financial policy, or to the government that directed the development of export-related industrial production, it was due to monetary policy and the policy of mandatory reserves. We have a story about structural problems in VAT, and we'll talk about it when the amendments to the budget are on the agenda. You show us the aggregate VAT, together the VAT in the country and the export, in fact wanting to hide the right structure or to get an excuse for what is not justified. What's most problematic here is that we already have 90 plus 120m euros taken from the business banks for deficits and debt refinancing stemming from the budget. A new law has already been submitted for the next session, which should be confirmed and it amounts to 160m euros, also a loan from Ersta, Marfin and Vojvodjanska Banka, we have 120m aid from Germany for these purposes, 50m euros in aid from the EU, 250m euros from the World Bank, but also one billion bonds that are also a loan, a Passive Passive Passive Passive, issued to cover the budget deficit. Where can such a budget deficit and whether credit can cover a deficit, passively finance a pension to qualify those who give us loans, instead of the purpose of what you will do with the funds and the impact budget, the purpose of the activity, says, in the framework of the programme? So, you don't tell them where you're going to invest, how you're going to structurally solve the problem of this deficit in the sense that this budget gap doesn't appear, but you're telling them what you've done, there's even false information, for example. the borrower has completed the sale of shares of social enterprises from the privatisation register. That's not true. It says a diagnostic assessment process of the banking sector has been launched, which has approved a satisfactory methodology for carrying out the assessment mentioned and established a decision-making process to take into account capital. You say that you have begun to allow specific treatment of some foreign strategic partners in the takeover of the banking sector in order to achieve that condition in the first part of the credit for the development of the private and financial sector to bring down the state's participation in the banking sector to a lower level. How are you going to explain that Hippo Alpe Adria was bought by the Austrian state bank and this Hypo Alpe Adria bank has uncovered adequate supplies, even with documentation, of about 530m euros. For us to be praised here as an exceptional bank, will someone tell us if there is a hippo alpine president of that country who takes huge commissions to open the door to that and such a foreign bank on this market, as is the case in Slovenia or Croatia? Or are you going to tell me that such a bank has a different way of entering this market or that this country and these people are less susceptible to this way of opening doors or do you think that such news at this time of civilization's achievements, the Internet, and the press, and the radio doesn't reach citizens' ears? I think it's completely irresponsible for you to send us a request like this for a loan where we don't know what we're funding. I even have a problem for the corridor. All right, infrastructure project, has anyone done an impact calculation that this borrowing covers the debt and that some results remain? All the credits you're taking are variable interest rates, extremely favourable. Yes, at this point, but if this loan, for example, is related to the euro, I assume six months, because six months of accounts, currently the six-month euro euro Euro is 0.67, at a pound of 0.60 and on dollars of 0.25. It's not a problem, but you, Mrs. Minister, know that inflation is already 5% in Belgium and that in other countries, this inflation will grow because of circumstances that are similar and will lead to an increase in interest, which at the moment only seems favourable, which, on the deadlines on which loans are taken, for 20 years, does not represent a harmless debt, but represents an extremely great danger for a country that has no intention of solving structural problems in public consumption and in production, which should enable the financing of the state at all, and economic states, not these. What's particularly interesting is that you don't explain any of the moments for which you intended, that you have only one purpose, for example when it comes to budget spending, whether your software system of the NIS that you have fits into this public debt law, which you allegedly have, that the data overlaps, or takes over. We received a report from the audit institution that these data are not valid, although there is such a software connection. You don't even have a report on the use of donations, and that's where you get credit because you passed the State Aid Control Act. So I'm even expecting criminal charges for non-compliance with the terms of the loan in terms of the control of the State aid, i.e. the arrival of loans. I didn't doubt it. Point 3.2, which treats criminal interest here, has been left out. You haven't delivered us any moment, I think this is the fourth loan in which you call for general terms of the World Bank, and we don't have those general terms at all. We have a brief copy of what can seem acceptable, and what can seem burdensome is literally being left out. What is most interesting in your approach to public finances is to take responsibility off yourself and translate errors into an accountant, as Mr Cvetkovic did. That's not what I'm saying in terms of the attractiveness of the show, so someone can make a newspaper text. You, ma'am, have inherited a very bad accounting law, but you've had calls to change it. We also know whose credit it is for the adoption of one and the law, which allowed in this country, although we have allegedly precise tax laws, to happen that one company has a loss in the balance sheet, and that on the other hand there is an increase in the value of buildings, property in the balance sheet. How is it possible that someone is showing loss and on the other hand has an increase in the value of buildings, assets and capital? Because the Accounting Act has been fully deliberately introduced for many years between economic categories and accounting categories. If you had the courage to get rid of yourself and as an economist professionally and honorably ask that real categories of taxation be introduced into the law, when the basis is precisely defined, and not that there are 13 laws, 45 sublegal acts, accompanying regulations, etc., which allow the abuse of tax bases and calculations, and those who know how to hide it, and that as a state after that, we do not need to invest so much in the detection of tax evasion and the work of tax authorities, and all this can easily, very easily and easily avoid the precise law on accounting, so we would not have to have Mr Cvetkovic say – they are the wrong accountants, and the accountants are the changers who require the creators of these events. The bookkeeper is an accountant, and the culprit is the one who orders certain business events to happen, the one who ordered the loan to be paid for the person who had no right to do so, the one who didn't ask for that bank guarantee to be charged, the one who hired people under the contract of employment, and he shouldn't, because the department's powers are exclusively for permanent employees, as the report showed. That's not what his accountant did. That's what his employer does. I'm not interested in justification and trying to keep you government, I'm interested in this country starting to operate on the principle of clean accounts where money will be directed into production and it's worth it, not taking credits to cover that... In fact, we don't even know where this money's going. If someone sued the Assembly for having to lay down bills for such borrowing to citizens, it's the same relationship as when you accuse the accountants of being guilty of the problems in the report presented by the DRI. The Assembly is only here to register your signed agreements and I know that many of you would be the most dear if there were a Government and to carry the laws right into the "Official Messenger". If somehow this building doesn't exist, or exists, because it keeps interesting events, gatherings, cocktails, etc., but if we could somehow keep quiet here, we wouldn't talk about these loans. We're slowing things down for you, asking the right questions that silence is the only answer. You say - we have good intentions, we're going in a good direction. Even today's guest of our country, a famous Dutchman, said that you are going in a good direction, you are on a good path, but only the results are counting. Only the results count and confess, and you don't have the results that allow the continued borrowing for the purposes they write here. The statistics of privatisation and the results that came from it are devastating. Maybe you'll invest this money in some software, computerization, like those daily payments, where there's no legal control. I doubt it. When the changes were introduced after 2000, where was the computerization funded by foreign donors introduced? To the Ministry of Intellectual Property, the judiciary and, behold, miracles. I don't want to comment on the M.O.P. and the judiciary, but why the IPR? Because in the meantime, you've dramatically raised patent and licence maintenance fees, which owners can't finance in terms of maintenance and protection, and when they stop paying taxes, those patents and licenses are the property of the one who has the software program set up, free of everyone, and who first? The one who donated the software project. We know in our private lives, absolutely nothing happens by accident. Where else did you put the money? For the purposes of which most people have not felt the change, some have, for some we know that they have increased their wealth by several years back, gained diplomas, not say and education, advanced in every sense that they can show that we live better, but that the majority of citizens have actually experienced an uncontested decline that is most significant in what and if there is hope, they will not have the means, or they will be burdened with these and these loans, so they will not be able to start any new industrialisation or reform of the country, because we will be burdened with debt, and we are already over-indebted country. What data says we're over-indebted? Not internal. Although you're only trying to look at public debt and not the total external debt, I'll give you the first logical mistake and explain why the IMF is looking at the total debt. You won't cover the debt of companies, but those companies that have been borrowing through the border are the ones who created a gross social product based on which you measure the credit, so it can't be covered by this company with both the income and the product it generates without being covered by the source from which it created that profit. The IMF includes this collectively and says that at the end of 2009, the external debt ratio towards GDP is 76.3%. Seriously in charge of the country already with 80%. In 2010, we will have 85.6% at their estimates, and in 2011 as much as 90%. This, in the fact that the gross social product is shown in inflationary, higher prices, so it looks bigger than it really is, your contribution to borrowing this kind of type and increasing debt and GDP ratios is undoubtedly too much, harmful to the economy and really represents, these two laws represent the reason why you as a government must seriously imagine how much longer you give yourself to keep this country nailed to tents, which are called debt, not slavery, but the qualification of a country that can only function on loans, which is not, not commendable, but which is not good for a country that has to go the way of the EU and to co-operate with partners in all countries of the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33799	National MP Vladan Jeremic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33800	The only logical justification, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for credit loans from the Republic of Serbia can be found if financial resources are invested in infrastructure or in capital projects. What we are discussing here in the Assembly today, which concerns the new 755m euros, with the exception of around 384m, as for Corridor 10, in principle only confirms one of our essential points of view, the SRS, that the country's economic policy over the past nine years, unfortunately, is bringing the state and citizens into something called the debt crisis. The economic crisis itself, as a rule, arises as a result of either the rise in external debt or the continuing deficit of the balance of payments that the state of Serbia faces. And in such an environment where the fate of the state is practically in the hands of foreign creditors and depends solely on their willingness to secure the inflow of credit that the economy is used to. Clearly, there is not much reason to be optimistic. Especially given the fact that when one of the reasons is that economic or political reasons are involved, the inflow of these funds on the basis of credit or slow down or completely halted, it is clear that things will not stand in the right way. What we also want to point out on this occasion is the fact that some data that indicate that the loans held by Serbia have not been practically used rationally and economically in this last decade, because we are right to say that the decline in industrial production is regularly being recorded, that the rate of unemployment rises from the month to the month. It is particularly difficult to give the public an agreement on the issue of all these funds that have come up so far on the basis of loans taken and, in particular, what is a painful issue, and as regards the revenues that this state has collected on the basis of the sale of state property, because according to those data that have been saying that something about three billion euros has been earned in the Republic of Serbia since the start of the privatisation process, and it is clear that there is no one who can safely tell where these funds ended. We had famous anomalies in this regard related to the privatisation of once large business systems, especially sugarcans, cementers and so on, for those famous three euros, but there was a lot of talk about it. Over the last year, the current account balance sheet deficits, covering all non-credit foreign exchange flows, have increased by 70% and thus the foreign exchange outflows exceeded those inflows that we had on all grounds, even on the basis of signs of immigrants, by nearly five billion dollars, and in the same period is one of the most important components of the current account balances increased by 44%. That in national language means that the state of Serbia imported about a billion dollars of goods and services every month more than it was able to export. These are all negative flows reflected in Serbia's overall external debt, which has increased by 42% over the past year. I don't think there's any reason for this guy's dilemma whether Serbia is in charge, in charge, or in debt, because the figures best point to the state we're in right now. The mere fact that as of next year, since 2010, Serbia has been following external debt service of 3.56 billion total, including the public sector. The main and interest payments are planned, so only a little less than three billion euros are expected in 2011 and so I don't count until 2015. It's about the amount of nearly 16 billion euros, how much we're going to have to pay off as a state based on the policy that's being conducted over the last nine years, and that's the policy of permanent borrowing. Just borrowing in a situation like this, in terms of mere survival, is nothing more than a political move, because in the first place and perhaps most illustrating the inability of the government, which instead of solving concrete measures, first of all, the problems that lie in the public sector, it does this by new borrowing, and debt recovery is obviously left for future and future generations and for some better times to come. Deploying as an act could have a foothold if business activity is really expected to increase, so that we can actually get into the whole credit pay-off story. However, it is clear to all that under the circumstances, i.e. in the economic environment in which the state of Serbia is located, it is practically an impossible mission. The very fact that the comparison with 2000 is practically doubled external debt tells us in the best way the government or how the regime imagines and implements its policy. The credits that have been taken are mostly spent on public spending, and it is clear that some real and large investments in Serbia have been practically and have not been, it is particularly worrying and inadmissible, even after the recognition of the representatives and the finance ministry themselves, some of these funds from credit arrangements are also used to fill the budget deficit, which absolutely does not stand. The total gross domestic product amounts to slightly more than 30 billion euros and what can worry is that the public debt of this country is growing at a rate of 1,100,000 euros and, as I have already noted, the fact that we will have to pay back more money since 2010. There are also some data that suggest that for budget interest alone we will have to allocate about 400m euros, and when you have the situation you have, it is clear that it will be very difficult, above all for citizens as taxpayers. It also says that Serbia's over-indebted debt would have been bigger if it hadn't been for the World Bank to write off 400 million debt and transfer it to the account of the so-called. The states of Kosovo and that organisation, I remind the public, not only for a few months has made an economic scandal by receiving so-called. Kosovo states in their official membership. So, right now, when the total debt of the state is added to the debts of the economy and citizens, the total external debt, as we have already heard, is about 22 billion euros or, for each citizen of Serbia, about 3,000 euros per head. The problem is not only in the size of the debt and the size of the foreign exchange inflow, but above all also in the level of foreign exchange income from exports which, unfortunately, is also small. So far, we have pointed out that, above all, it is essential to take a fundamental turn in the direction of economic policy, and in this sense to enable an environment in which banks would firstly recognize the interest to turn the economy around, which is why they exist. We think that in this way, with certain concrete measures, such as bringing down state interest rates, etc., practically the banks would get one motivation to finance, first of all, public works and, of course, if the state is guaranteed loans that are intended to be granted, that is something that, in the SRS' view, could finally allow one shift when it comes to the overall economic situation. If we have in mind the fact that even in a projected 2010 budget almost half of the revenue is planned on the basis of VAT and excise duty, it is clear that we are expected to have a rather uncertain and difficult year, although it is known that all these funds that the state of Serbia is taking over from various international financial institutions, or if it is known that the economy does not know the category of love, we believe that it would be much better to make one qualitative strategy, or projection for the next few years, and not just to watch from whom, as well as under what conditions, we will take loans for the budget, foreign reserves or liquidity, anyway. So, first of all, systematic reform of the entire economic system is necessary in order to create conditions for an export-oriented economy, or industry, in order to help agriculture, not in the way that is now foreseen by the budget, where the total funding planned is only about 2.5%, because it is clear that otherwise there will be major problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33801	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33802	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as counterpart Kenan Hajdarevic said earlier, and I must say that we can understand when it comes to the borrowing of Serbia, such as these laws that are ahead of us, but if there is a serious plan, if there is, how can I say, motive behind this, but that motive is not maintaining the existing situation, but that this motive is change. So the point of all this is what's behind this borrowing? Is this going to be a step forward for all those who will be users of this loan or is it just going to be maintaining the existing state? Madam Minister, I have to doubt that there will be any maintenance of the existing situation, without the intention of criticizing you, indeed. I can even say that I have enough understanding for the efforts that make nothing change here and that, in fact, Serbia doesn't go backwards. Unfortunately, this 2010 budget, according to a DS counterpart, is a logical trail and a consequence of the 2009 budget. There's our problem, which doesn't change anything, that we don't see anywhere stepping out of what we're in today. Here is the borrowing, but also in the 2010 budget on page 3. We have guarantees that RS will give in 2010 and what is our problem? There are two public enterprises, the "Serbiagas Railways of Serbia" and the public company "Serbigas". "Serbian Railway", as Mr. Hajdarevic mentioned earlier, has shown a loss of 15 billion in the 2008 final account. For 2010, we will have subsidies of 12 billion "The Railways of Serbia", of which 11.5 billion will go for salaries. He quoted in the report, i.e. in the notes that go consolidated in the 2008 financial report by the public-owned railway company, that the company, which is 100% the daughter of the company, or the CIP, which is located as a legal entity within the public undertaking "Serb Railway", is paying compensation beyond the law and there is no indication that this will change. Also, in 2008, "Serbian Railway" established a dependent legal face, "Serbian van". I'd really like someone to explain to me what the Serbian van is doing? Also, what we find very controversial is the Railway Management Board. See who are members of the Management Board of the Railways of Serbia - Slobodan Radosavljevic, graduate politician, director of the company Beotesting d.o.o. Belgrade, the company's activity - imports and exports of fruit, Vukomir Mitrovica, a graduate chemist, owner of the company Elstil d.o.o. Kraljeno, there is no such company's Agency for Business Registers, assistant CEO JAT "Ervejz", Milan Vlasinic, a graduate building engineer. Now tell me, and do you know why I'm asking, who are these people sitting on the board of directors? You need to know. Serbia's railway company is 100% owner. The government needs to know who these people are sitting on the board. What makes you say that? Because we have 2008, the NIS, the board of directors who have all prospered, and they have taken the company 100m euros into loss. We also have "Serbigas," which you're losing. Then for "Srbigas" in 2010 the state will provide guarantees of, it is an incredible figure, about 300 or 400m euros. For the Railways, we will give $600m guarantee and 830m euros. We can understand if behind these loans Serbia is taking is a clear policy that something will change. If that's the policy of keeping losers alive, it's not a policy that LDP can stand behind and that's why you can't have our support, because it's obvious that we could discuss the 2010 budget. What made us ask this, to discuss the 2008 final account? Because we have evidence at the Railways that we did business in the previous year, and now we're going to subsidize them with 12 billion. It was also important for us to discuss the final account, so that we could know how the funds would be used next year. We have a problem with what they're having a problem with, and the Duke Hungarian Union. That's, I have to quote Article 184 again. The constitution, since clearly not clear to you, says 7% of the republic's budget is the province's budget, and three weeks of those 7% go for capital expenditures. However, based on the analysis and projection of the 2010 AP Vojvodina budget, the province's finance secretary said only 12 billion of the 56 envisioned would remain for capital investments. In fact, the province administration to a much greater extent than is anticipated to serve as a flow water heater towards those to whom wage, education, health, etc., as well as to local self-government. Those six billion that are heading towards local self-government in the territory of the AP Vojvodina you also put into the figure and then you make a statement, Madam Minister, why you're looking at the expenditure side, look at the revenue side. Where does it say you watch the income side when you determine 7%? Where does that say? Tell me where it says it. It doesn't say anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33803	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33804	I'll just have one more sentence. I think we'd have a lot more support for the LDP if you'd accepted our call, if you'd sat down with us to talk, that what's our priority for 2010 at least listen to and find some common language around the 2010 budget. In this way and the reactions that come, you can't have LDP support.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33805	I thank Mr. Marash. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33806	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs Dragutinovic, the DSS MPs often disagree with you on many issues, but what we will surely agree on is that excessive growth in external duty is certainly one of the biggest macroeconomic risks in the coming years. The credits you will receive in the next period will, of course, have to be returned with interest. The big problem is that these current costs are also up to some future generations. During this crisis, the private sector has reduced its debts, and the state has been additionally in debt and continues to be in debt. It's with this government, unfortunately, no-return river, but if one day we come out of this crisis and the economy starts to recover, the private sector will start to be in debt, and it's significantly in debt, so that the aggregated debt will quickly reach a critical limit. State debt is around 12 billion and external debt is 22 billion euros. The problem is that government debt could soon rise by at least two and a half billion euros, these are loans already agreed and it is only a matter of days when the government will withdraw that money. Public debt is growing by another 30%, so it will have to be secured about two billion six million euros a year for its payment. This means that each of the million and 800,000 employees in the Republic of Serbia will have to make $1,300 a year for the state to return the capital and pay interest. This year, the deficit is 4.5% of GDP, but the biggest problem is that infrastructure projects are not behind it. When the budget deficit appears, it should be covered and usually done by borrowing or higher taxes. You've decided on borrowing for now, but if that deficit is not covered in the current year, in the year it was created, then it joins the public debt. I find it strange to hear that Serbia is a low-indebted country because its public debt is 33% of GDP and is significantly lower than the EU average. The problem is that they are not included in the account but agreed loans for which, as I said, it is only a matter of time before they are used. Also, you, Mrs Dragutinovic, said the border is between 40% and 45%. I think after this borrowing, we're just moving in that range. The currency structure of debt is unfavourable because the dinar part is only 10%, and that simply means that the taxes that the state collects in dinars will have to be returned in euros and in dollars. The biggest risk of that is that there's a change in course. The other problem is that loans that will enter the public debt structure usually include variable interest. You said that this budget, which we need to adopt in the next day, is developmental and that most of the loans are meant for infrastructure development, but the problem is that these works, infrastructure works, are not going to start, because we have an example that the money has been waiting for three or four years, and not one single euro has been withdrawn. In one of the laws we are discussing, it is a programme loan for the development of public finances, concluded with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the state is in debt for an additional 70m and 100,000 euros. What are the purposes of these funds? Reforms in the area of public finance management that would improve the existing poor governance of fiscal policy. The credit will be used to plan and prepare the budget. To remind me, the National Assembly was scheduled to adopt the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget yesterday, December 15th. Perhaps part of these funds will be used for a new law on the budgetary system, within which the budget deadline will be adopted in the Assembly when conditions are obtained, rather than December 15th. Then, the funds are planned to prepare the budget, improve the monitoring and control system of public finances. I don't know if certain funds from this loan will be used to obtain textbooks based on bookkeeping, whether you're going to get books for bookkeepers, whether these funds will be covered and this famous afternoon course where the accountants will learn how to do their job. Also, one part of these funds is intended to bring the pension system into a state of fiscal sustainability. Does a certain part of these funds go to write a law that needs to be regulated by a pension disability insurance system, to cover the costs of three working groups working in three different areas, to educate those people who have been writing the law for three years to make it better for pensioners in Serbia? So be careful when you do all this and if you're borrowing us, then you need to invest that money in development. You recently said Mrs Dragutinovic that you do not look through the pink glasses, but I have the impression that you have put on the welding glasses, so you do not see what the problems in Serbia are and how much danger they are, because when the system breaks one day, it will crack on the back of all Serbian citizens. Never forget the fact that anyone who lives on credit dies in wars, and we certainly don't want that to happen to Serbian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33807	National MP Milan Avramovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33808	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in this package of laws, all five proposals, relating to contracts between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the time available to all MPs, cannot agree that I can explain the five proposals in quality and say my remarks, so for this reason, I have singled out only one contract for the world, and this is the law on the validation of the financial contract between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, the loan for municipal and regional infrastructure B. For the sake of the citizens, I have to present some information that, according to the bank's estimates, the total cost of projects is 200m euros, of which 125 million is given from the budget funds of the Republic of Serbia, and the other 75 million from the contract, more specifically from the bank itself, of which is in the first dam on December 12th.2008. The year was signed by the first contract, which was given the first 50 million, and later, a year later, the bank decided to lend another 25 million. This money must be raised by March 2013. The payment deadline is 20 years and using exclusively for the National Investment Plan and projects through which the National Investment Plan considers it privileged. So far, we don't have a list of these projects, and we don't know what this money's going to go into, but what we do know is the history, the way and the functioning of the work of the National Investment Plan, which I'm going to deal with in the course of my exposure. Also, it should be concluded from all of this that the government of the Republic of Serbia has continued its borrowing, the payment deadline is, I have already mentioned, 20 years. In the meantime, much can happen to both the market and the economy in the Republic of Serbia, so this debt remains for the next generations that are yet to come. The funds the NIP predicts are only specified in some segments through some areas. For example, improving travel infrastructure, rebuilding and modernising facilities intended for basic, medium and high education, building and improving facilities intended for the provision of health services, social protection services, renovation of facilities used by state authorities of administration, reconstruction and establishment of cultural historical facilities, etc. All these projects, I once again mention and underline, will be realized exclusively through the NIP. So, when we take history, we'll see that the same story for who knows which time it was mentioned, that all these proposals were the first time the NIP came up, to say that it was in 2006, and that they were the same ministers and the same officials, the same parties, then led the NIP and to lead today. The only difference is that at the time there were different statements, different opinions and I, who am a Belgrade MP, will focus exclusively on the participation of the NIP in the city of Belgrade. That is why I have the obligation to read one of the statements of 27 July 2006 under the pompous term "investment in the city or in the capital, in the city of Belgrade of one million euros". There is a protocol implementing the National Investment Plan on Belgrade territory, signed by representatives of the City Assembly and Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. This defines the construction of traffic infrastructure, therefore, all that is now foreseen by this contract, 4,000 dwellings for state administration employees and public services, i.e. health, education, sports, religious, cultural institutions, and about 440m euros will be invested over the next year. So, this is a 2006 statement, which I will work out a little bit, where it is said that, according to Dinkic, 221 million is secured from surplus privatisation revenues, while loans from international financial institutions of 207m euros will be an additional source of funding. Then he says that the Serbian government started negotiations at the City Assembly initiative, I'm talking about 2006 with the government of Japan on a loan to build another bridge across the Danube, a kilometer downriver from the Pančeva Bridge. So there's nothing in these negotiations, because we don't have a draft today, or a proposal in the city assembly, or any vision, and we don't have a visual bridge. Then there's the construction of apartments intended for civil servants. The city and the Republic will finance the next year and a half, so in 2007 and 2008, according to Dinkic, 80m euros each, each in charge of raising 2,000 apartments. Now I'm asking you, since it was in the past, what's the truth here and what's not? There's nothing out of these apartments. If there are, who's got them? Where are they? Or it was another promise, although it was confusing to me, because there was no election campaign in that period. Let's move on. It says - the city has successfully implemented a programme to build 1,000 non-profit apartments and the Republic will fully accept the model, so the conditions of the competition will be the same as for those first 1,000 apartments, Dinkic said. It's from the point of view of the minister somewhat logical, but for us citizens, let's say right in the city of Belgrade, we don't know who these 1,000 non-profit apartments were divided into. We know what's common knowledge, that whoever had the DS membership book was a priority on that list of assignments, and it's normal that the minister from G 17 plus will accept such a way of working to provide his members with housing. If all of this were funny, says a list of priorities, which says - to show ourselves in a better light in front of foreign tourists, who are increasingly visiting our capital, the finance minister added, has decided to restore the facades of republican institutions, where 4.5 million from the state register will be invested, while 11 million will be allocated from the city budget and this will represent a better light city of Belgrade. Look, if the only problem in this whole lack of property and the situation, in the way we live our lives, is the facade in the capital, then we're going to look at whether those facades are done, too. I can tell you that half of these facades aren't done and that half that was made already looks like it wasn't even made. There are other promises. According to Dinkic's announcement, the construction of the equipment of the Torlak Institute of Immunology was planned. That's why we don't have a flu vaccine today, because Minister Dinkic of G17 promised this. Let's move on, for the restoration of 17 health homes in Belgrade, which pass into the authority of the City Assembly, a million-and-a-half, primary and secondary schools will get about 5,200 computers, that's also not true, tables, chairs, musical instruments. Investment in new equipment for the Student Centre has been planned, which is also not true, for building Belgrade's passenger port, it is also not true, the port in Vinci and the Gondola of New Belgrade, Ada Giganija, is expected 4,900,000 euros, it is also not true. So Dinkic announced the construction of the first athletic stadium, which still does not exist, but has not been determined how much it will cost. From these and other examples, so I don't waste my time right now, I think this is enough for you to come to some conclusion. There's this built swimming ground in Grocko, projects in Obrenovac, too, all these projects don't exist and they didn't even go into realisation, and they didn't even go into realisation, they gave up or they didn't finish. So from these examples in 2006 you see for yourself. Furthermore, is the NIP going to justify its existence or not? That is why I believe Mrs Kalanovic, who said the same year that Serbia is not ready to manage development projects, but rather spends unreal and uneconomically, not respecting the procedure and not respecting control, Mrs Kalanovic said. As a result, it now provides the 2006 example of how much was spent and how much was to be spent, in an explanation that these are lists and wishes of municipalities that did not have sufficiently prepared technical or planning documentation. It is a similar parallel to you, when Minister Cvetkovic justice fails by failing to engage professional bookkeeper services. So, the minister added, it is not a secret that travel stock has been opened in Serbia for election years or infrastructure projects have been implemented for political reasons. Here is an example of what the NIP minister acknowledges, and this says that according to her, among these projects, the most significant involvement of her ministry in the realisation of Corridor 10, as well as the approach of the highway to Kragujevac, is as the centre of Serbia's automotive industry. Here is the paradox of someone who is the biggest advocate of entering the Fiat in Serbia's automotive industry and who is contractually obliged to solve the infrastructure to Kragujevac and back. It wasn't hard for me to deal with it, just because Mr. Senic was talking about "Fiat," to say a few words that are very important, true, that you'll never hear from a representative of the government. It's that it's quite a risky concept of home industry degradation by entering the Fiat on our market. So the concept of each auto-industry is based on the parent company for the final assembly of cars as a finished product that connects small specialized companies to produce different auto-components by physical model, for example, atoms. The core of the auto-industry atom consists of a parent company with electrons representing small specialized enterprises, where economics could not exist without each other, thus maintaining their joint existence, interests and motivation. In the case of the flag, this domestic atom core is intended for the foreign core of the Fiata, and if, according to its announcement, production is not interestingly linked to domestic suppliers, our auto-industry will remain decapitated, degraded and finally shut down and then we conclude that it will only work at the Fiata, and certainly not the Fiat, or perhaps the Fiat. That's why I have an obligation for these people who delivered this study regarding the analysis of the contract with the Fiat, to read the companies that were left behind for participation in the further realization of our car, now the Fiat. These are: "DBM FAM" Belgrade, "Livnica" Topola, "21st October" Kragujevac, "Kraguj" Batocina, "Blagotin" Belusic, "Petar Drapsin" Mladenovac, "FRA" Čačak, "Tiger" Piro, "Minel" Mladenovac, "Blagots" Zaječar, "Pres" Surdulica, "VIS" Svilinac, "Staklara" Pančevo, "Filip Kljajic" Kragujevac, "Long" Belgrade, "FAM" Krušjevac etc., "PPT" Trstenik, "Kovnica" Kragujevac, "NIP" Sremska Mitrovica, "Balkan" Suva Reka, "FAM" Kruševac, etc. Take a look at the way you privatise or praise the contract between the Fiats and the Government as small enterprises that have lost their basic sources of income, which is a part of the construction of a model that was in place until then. I must also point out that even "Fiat" has not been committed, and that the form of investment is not defined enough, therefore there is no incentive, there is no knowledge and no sign of the purchase of connected persons, which is certainly a standard in the EU, censored data, a Article 20 in a contract that does not know the dynamics of investment. The realisation of capital projects of bank guarantees does not exist. The Discretional Law of the Fiat, the growth of production per year, has not been presented. The volume of exports only announced, does not exist in the contract, investment in development is not foreseen. For example, there is also an example of Renauld investing 450m euros in a development centre in Romania, with 3,000 engineers, employee qualifications, supply volumes, etc. There are no measures to improve the contract with the "Fiat" and then when we call for the EU's liberal economy, we have that standardised economic development, while we have unsupervised developments in the function of resolution ministries. In the proposal, if we have such a liberal standard, an incentive for the economic environment and the growth of investments in Serbia, we have a state entrepreneurship, a minister or, say, a manager of someone. The reduction of public spending, with us the situation is the budgetary financing of strategic partners, the liberal continuity of the apparent ventures. We have the discontinuity of projects, armed with political mandates, free competition, monopolitical competition, liberal access to EU funds, privileged access to incentives and macroeconomic stability, namely instability in Serbia, bank lending and IMF. Not to mention now the number of employees in the flag, that it used to be 15 grand, that now there are only 3,800 and that after Fiat's investment, it stays at 2,400 and some employees. What's also important, and what's not to be mentioned is that the list of detailed data is what's in the fund, if there's at all how many, and we see that these loans have, how much has been spent on and on which projects. We don't have a public opinion anywhere, so we'd better get that. As a result, there is an impression that I agree with, that Serbia is not ready to manage development projects, but the funds are used irrationally, uneconomically, even without respect for procedures and there is no kind of control. More importantly, it will also apply to access funds, if now applies to pre-accession funds. We have a conclusion that we just need to sit down and think about what was done in the previous period, to see what would happen in the future. That's how she represented the theory that people in the election should vote for managers, not for politicians in this translation, if that's how it can be understood, because the government itself in this case acts as if it's too much of a privatisation of the property of a minister who fell from the sky. As a result, the NIP does not respect the procedure and it is not valid for the established bodies of the procedure that no one has implemented, but it all comes down to the list of some wishes of various ministries. It's probably a tradition. That's why we don't have a final account until the last ten years. So, in order not to spend my time with my colleagues, I have to reach some conclusion, which is the number of employees in the National Service who is quite large and who is growing from year to year and if he has reached it, in February 2009, an even number of 750,000 unemployed persons was registered, which is 13,000 more, than just a month earlier. And then, just in the last four months, the number of unemployed has increased by 31,000, although the National Employment Service records aren't real, because a lot of people are unemployed, and they're not on the record. From all this, it is concluded that loans should not be raised, because it is not known what is being spent in any way, and we have no final accounts, we have no insight into what projects, selections, the privileges of certain municipalities, certain regions, and perhaps travel infrastructures, depending on when and where the next local elections are. For these reasons, we certainly cannot support this contract and these five that are proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33809	Mr. Milos Radulovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33810	We are having a debate here in detail on credit obligations, on six contracts that weigh 755m euros in total. Overall, credit claims with these 755, 2,500 billion euros were verified here in the Assembly only during 2009. If you take 788 million first tranche of the IMF, it's 3 billion and 300 million. What I would like to ask you, Mrs Dragutinović, is what is our debt essentially? We just heard from Mr. Senic that we are not much in charge of the country, that practically 32% of the total GDP wastes on public debt. Last year, the public debt amounted to 27.6%. A few days ago, you said that the public debt had already exceeded the 42% figure, and the NBS governor himself said the amount goes to 42% of GDP. Do you know what the problem is? Unlike Japan and other countries that had a large public debt and over 150% of GDP, but which had a substance, because they had something to export and to cover the debt, we had a problem just having a small export, all this year there were about 6 billion euros and what was left of us and businesses. We don't have what we would offer on the outside market. Industrial production is dropping, 14% this year alone, and a huge number of workers are out of work. The assessment of economic experts is that the number of people will exceed the number of 200,000, and even some pessimists say over 300,000. Here Mr. Mrkonjic said a few days ago, responding to our discussion in principle, that the problem with Corridor 10 is essentially finance. That out of the promised and guaranteed 90 kilometers of highway, you've done 48.5 kilometers of highway for reasons you don't have the money. However, I will remind you only of a statement on Sunday's "Nin" since 26 November. In the text "Corridor 10", where Mr. Mrkonjic just said the problem is, and why the remainder of 42km did not end, a problem in the organisation of work, where the three ministries share competences in the area of infrastructure. These are infrastructures, the National Investment Programme and spatial planning, adding that traffic infrastructure is its portfolio and that it is essentially those that are owned for these projects and the construction of these roads. Make a deal. Make a deal, establish a consensus, so go do what you promised. Madam Minister, here today we are also talking about a loan relating to a programme loan for the development of public finances of 70 million and 100,000 euros. It is argued that these funds are used to reform public finances management, to improve the existing poor governance of fiscal spending and help improve the fiduciary conditions, introduce a more comprehensive, to a greater extent integrated medium-term framework for budget planning and preparation. Just the other day, Mr. Prime Minister Cvetkovic found a DRI that included the self-control of 18 ministries, or 28% of state services, found major irregularities. In answer to our remarks and to the demands that we seek here to conduct a process and discussion of the DRI's finding, he easily replied that it was those people who were in bookkeeping, or bookkeepers who were responsible for it. It is clear for anyone who understands finance that the accounts are not signed by accountants, but are signed by ministers, state secretaries, ministerial assistants, directors of the administration, directors of the agencies, and that they are responsible. Obviously, Madam Minister, you always find someone else guilty. You are to blame for the economic crisis for these poor results and this poor condition. Your citizens are guilty, your accountants are guilty, and you are wronged by opposition parties for making their views known and justifiably criticising all of this that you are doing wrong and affecting the citizens of Serbia. Let me just say, the DSS and its parliamentary group have repeatedly criticised this budget here, that it is primarily expendable and not developmental. Based on what this budget is like, you're entering the social budget story. First of all, this country needs one serious policy, a strategic policy that will bring improvement to citizens, an increase in living standards, more jobs and greater certainty. You must finally admit that you are in no condition to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33811	National MP Bojan Mladenovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia is often called a bond between the East and the West. Here it is usually thought of the Moravia Valley, because it is the easiest road between Greece and Asia Minor, on the one hand and the rest of Europe, on the other. Serbia also belongs to many major European areas, such as the Balkans, Podunavlje, the Pannonian Nizi, the Dinar region. This favourable traffic position was also the main factor of its severe past and numerous wars. Serbia must have developed and road, and rail, and air and water traffic. Due to a number of geographical benefits, the development of Serbia's traffic needs to be even faster and more extensive in the future. Railway traffic is completely underdeveloped, locomotives and wagons are in extremely poor condition, do not meet even the most basic standards, do not respect the order of departure, arrival, trains late and five or six hours late. Water traffic is underdeveloped. The possibilities are great for its development, which must play an even greater role at the local, regional and state level for the transport, transport of passengers and goods and the huge potential of rivers are completely unused in Serbia. The SRS advocates the rapid development of traffic, more specifically of all kinds of traffic, we support road construction, construction of cars - roads, bridges, because without them there is no development of Serbia, no economic progress, no development of economy, tourism, but more needs to be taken care of to make their construction as rational as possible, to make their price more realistic and to always choose the best tender offers for their construction. There's a bridge case in Belgrade on Ada. Em's too expensive. It's made by a loan that should be returned for years. Namely, most of the construction costs are scheduled to be financed by the loan the city of Belgrade has raised at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The construction of the bridge through Ade Gypsies was criticised by a group of nine authors, including many prominent professors, who pointed to the physical danger and urban inadequacy of running a master's course through the city's core and estimated that these plans for Belgrade's inhabitants bring enormously expensive and dysfunctional bridge in the wrong place, calling city authorities' decisions absolutely unacceptable improvisations. When deciding on a bridge, building it, you must also take care of the construction of the access roads. The price of the access roads is of paramount importance and must be a significant factor when determining the location of the bridge itself. Also, it must be functional, with the largest traffic flow, as useful as possible, in order for its construction to pay off. When it comes to Corridor 10, it is an undisputedly important project for the state, for several reasons. Only a well-developed network of roads can we develop, among other things, transit tourism in Serbia. Who will pass through Serbia if you don't have roads, if you drive through Serbia on average, 50km per hour, if the roads are full of holes. Everyone will go around her, just as many do today. In Europe, cars are made - roads with five or six lanes in one direction, and in our case, we can't even maintain regular highways. Investment in roads is paid multiple times. During the construction of the same ones, employment occurs, primarily by a large number of Serbian citizens. Only when the Corridor is made will there be tens of thousands of people, companies will be launched, road construction will also be paid through the toll which will be charged in the next period, by keeping an eye on the level of road charges, so that we do not get into a situation for citizens to take the side roads, bypass, because the price is not adjusted to their payment options, or that drivers coming from neighbouring or other countries bypass Serbia due to high and non-accessible prices. The construction of roads runs a number of companies, businesses. I'll only mention the railway corridor. Not only will they employ a large number of people, but they will also run an industry, more specifically a metal complex. Developing tourism without a travel network is difficult, almost impossible. If a well-known tourist resort is reached through traffic jams, where the traffic flow is small, where you do not have the opportunity to cross the truck, the boat, the bus, if traveled long, then all these actions must be refused by both domestic and foreign tourists. What is the way to a spa, mountain, lake or other tourist resort is often a crucial factor for many tourists, and many will refuse and deter from staying in Serbia. Due to all these facts, the SRS is committed to building as many roads as possible, for corridors, for all that brings good to Serbia and its citizens. What we are against is the way it's being built itself, how tenders are being conducted, how they're being set up to get jobs by individuals, i.e. certain companies and companies. The state lost millions due to malfeasance, above all in public procurement, due to the setting-up of the tender, because, for example, the conditions of the tender were not published in time and thus the right was denied to many bidders to participate and to offer much better bids on time. What we are against is the excessive borrowing of the Republic of Serbia. Credits are taken with both hand and hat, without any thought of who will and from what these loans will repay. If loans are invested in the development of production, in industry, in the construction of factories, then money can also be returned relatively quickly, through sale or export of goods. Now we have two credits for the corridor, a loan for municipal and regional infrastructure, refurbishment and development loans make up huge money. Apparently, they're all the most favourable and large-time payments, etc. However, all these loans need to be returned someday. The government's overindebted debt will have a very bad impact on future generations who can come into a situation that has nothing to pay back these loans from, and thus Serbia will be in a very invisible and difficult position. Ministers, members of the government are easily opted for credit, which concerns us all or may take them because they are aware of the fact that they will certainly not return them. Also, the SRS notes that loans for municipal and regional infrastructure should not be shared by who is in power in the local region, as was the case in previous years, to get loans only to those municipalities that are participating in the government at the republican level, but to get those municipalities where credits are most necessary. What we have often emphasized is whether and to what extent credits are used on purpose, because we have been witnessing that a good part of the loan ends, first of all, in private pockets, and we had a case to go for quite another purpose. Finally, to conclude and to repeat that the SRS is for development projects, it is for the construction of roads, it is for the construction of highways, but it is against the excessive borrowing of Serbia, against the setting up of tenders and against the irrational use of budget funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33813	National MP Radojko Obradovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33814	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, there are several loans on the agenda. I expected to be Minister Mrkonjic, as I also wanted to talk about the aspect. These loans have several aspects. One is financial, the other is technical, and it doesn't matter at all that other part to make the whole thing real. Of course there's no development without infrastructure. It's a familiar thing. If you don't have good roads, if you don't have general infrastructure, you can't even think about development. Infrastructure is needed. Also, very few countries in the world, in fact, I don't know any that without credit managed to complete the infrastructure. The basic question is where is this border, where this financial viability of taking credit and the ability to return is, of course, dependent on the willingness of the entire country. This loan is extremely important, the DSS fully supports the need to finally complete the road infrastructure. But you'll agree with me that this loan has another dimension. We want these funds, apart from making roads, to take advantage of our businesses that we will hire, which will create some new jobs, which will allow these funds to be repeatedly fertilized in Serbia. This year unfortunately, only 50km of roads in Serbia have been completed. For the following year, much more is planned, we even heard some new projects that we fully support, that is this short highway to Bosnia and Herzegovina, so from Visegrad highways that will connect the Pojames with Chaka. What's being asked as a technical question, when the Assembly votes this out, we don't know when it's going to be, those funds will be available. Have general projects been done for these routes? As far as I know, not for everyone, some are just new ideas. Are there geological and geodetic backgrounds? These are all serious jobs that take a terrible long time. Is there any technical documentation? Will these projects or will these projects have major projects based on which to obtain a building permit or will these projects be done without a building permit? Is the tender documentation being prepared since I heard that tenders will be called in January or February? If not good documentation, then the price offered will not be good enough or will not be the most objective, because each performer will try to protect himself and will give a greater reserve on bad documentation. Next, the question opens: Who will guide these paths? Who's going to take control of those roads? If one year we were able to do only 50 kilometers of highways, how are we going to do 300 kilometers next year? You know, your building is like a sport, if you're not trained, it's hard to get into a third league league. Serbia needs new jobs and it is our interest to build these routes for domestic companies. When you look at these tenders, or these laws, they provide, say, for one of the credits to do the traffic, to do 69 bridges, 4 tunnels, two maintenance centers, miles of highways. This second one predicts even two 1,000-metre tunnels, 83km of highway and 12 other tunnels. When you look at countries in an environment that have developed their travel infrastructure to a good degree, most of these jobs have been done by their domestic companies, very few foreign companies have been involved in doing these works. When you look at Serbia, construction is the branch that is in the most difficult situation. Just this year, from the beginning to the present day, there have ceased to be about 600 companies in the area of construction. Construction was once Serbia's best export product and as a branch that had the largest or major participation in the gross social product last year, the biggest decline recorded this year. The companies that are owed are just construction firms. The most states owe the Energy Project, Ratko Mitrovica, Planum, Užica Roads, Mostogradnji and others. When you look at the tenders that were scheduled, a month ago, a tender for a train bridge was completed in Turkey, no domestic company could participate. Construction then asked the government for support to participate in these tenders. The condition was that companies worked projects worth 25m euros or more. None of our companies have these conditions. When you look at these conditions, none of our companies will be able to compete to build those roads. Look at the bridge at Ade, the project was done by Slovenians, by Austrians. How's that gonna open up our jobs? In fact, through these loans, we open up the possibility of helping countries' economies in the environment. On the one hand, the government has a campaign – let's buy some homework, and when you look at all the serious tenders and all the opportunities for our companies to engage, then through various inabilitys, our economy is strewn. In these areas, it's gonna be hard for our companies to show up, that's a fact. Then how will that affect the development of our economy? We fully support the idea of building these paths, but how can we together as a National Assembly and as a state of Serbia help develop domestic economy? Construction was Serbia's best export product. I am deeply convinced that construction is one of the few export products Serbia should have. If we need to do something through these projects, we need to help our construction industry become one of our export chances again, and I'm afraid the export chances are very low.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33815	The word is made by the People's Messenger Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33816	Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, Mrs. Dragutinovic, I am really glad to see you after a while and I hope that we will have the opportunity to exchange different concepts and according to these proposed legal proposals. To tell you the truth, we were really trying to call you the other day in this House's gym, when the draft law on financial support for families with children was on the agenda. We found out that you had when we discussed the subject, and you weren't there, a shortcut to work in terms of the amendment, so you couldn't be in two places at the same time. You won't mind if we touch that part of the debate this time because, it seems to us, and I'm just quite confident, that you from your professorial perspective, and I think you're a professor first, and then everything else, you're really going to try to solve some dilemmas for us. Of course, I fully agree with the concept that each budget reflects the priorities of the political elite and there is nothing illegal or illegal about it. You won a certain percentage of the vote in the election, the SRS can only respect the people who expressed that will. But what's controversial and what we've really been discussing here for some time now is how budgets are spent. It's actually a way to go more rarely, a debate that is so easy not to enter because this debate leads to that fundamental question. Every time before the end of the fiscal year, when we need to show the people that we are successful in providing a man with a decent life and that this people will really know where their money is going, which they have really less and less, we cannot at least give a good answer to all these questions, to resolve all these dilemmas, for one simple reason – we ourselves do not know how budgets are spent. Be careful, Mrs Dragutinovic, the paradox of an even bigger one, when we find out how budgets are spent, there is no debate in parliament. That's what I think all my colleagues are going to agree that it's totally unacceptable. So, he argues, regardless of whether a parliamentary group suggested discussing the auditor's report in a manner where it left out urgently, so the debate is delayed for March, and may be April 1st, and may not be at all. So, the political elite, you are, it was your responsibility to put this debate on budgets and budgets in a way that we first saw how these funds were spent. What about the responsibility of those people who are in power, and who definitely, according to the auditors, have been spending their budgets badly? Based on the auditor's report, we also see that the factal privatisation funds have disappeared, and we've been trying to find out where the privatisation funds are and how and where they went. Before this debate on the budget, and I'm really glad that you're here right now, because I'm really going to look back at this point on the auditor's report, because I think it's a perfectly logical story if I speak that way. You should convince us that this whole package with the proposed budget law and the following budget laws will be implemented. We now tell you that we doubt the credibility of it. Why? Because this year, we finally got material proof that the government is purposelessly spending budgets. So, the government wastes the money that comes from a part of the impoverished population, which is in an increasing percentage. Why is that? First and foremost, you, Mrs Dragutinovic, within all ministries, therefore, what is foreseen by law is the existence of internal control, you have 25 ministries, of which only five ministries have internal control. That's what Serbian citizens should know. Why is that? If someone has a wish and if someone really wants to manage our finances properly, what should be an assumption, even if every firm, every house does it in a similar way, is internal control of the spending of funds, respect for legal procedures. What citizens should also know, that of all the 25 ministries, only the Ministry of Defence, so finance, work and social policy, youth and sports and the Security Information Agency have internal control. How many of them have internal audits? I'm also telling you that this is really a small percentage compared to what is expected of an executive operating body that should guarantee first all of us, that we trust, that funds or money invested in everyday life in Serbia go where they need to go. So that's first and foremost. Secondly, what the auditor's report also says, and what was also a frantic data for us, are debts, i.e. that public enterprises in the budgets actually withdrew a certain amount of money, according to the auditor's report. I would not be paraphrasing here, but I will tell you like this -- it has been found that the amount of the request from the state authorities is almost 14 billion dinars, incorrectly classified, and there is probably the category of Prime Minister Cvetkovic used, since this incorrect classification and accounting errors are very often repeated, which is also a complete misunderstanding for us, that the essence of the Auditor Report is therefore an accounting error, which is not. The second item found by the auditor is that no loans paid out of the budget and the budget reserve were recovered within the deadline provided for in the government's conclusion, on the basis of which it was approved, or returned by the end of 2008. One of the items, due to the obsolescence of the lack of documentation proving the founding of the claim, the unsatisfactory amounts with the debtors due to the objective inability to collect the same, as well as due to the judicial dispute which has been conducted in relation to the claims made, total amount of nearly 22,000.200 dinars, for example to the EPS union1. 000,000.800 outdated, non-compliant, undocumented and objectively non-chargeable claims on various grounds. Also, there are short-term claims that do not even belong to that category of short-term claims, which is about 14 and 15 billion dinars, respectively. No loan was recovered in accordance with the government’s conclusions or agreed deadline by the end of the financial year in which the loan was paid. Loans were not recovered until the end of 2008. In addition, it was found that new loans were made to the same entities, although previously granted loans were not recovered. It is the NIS, the ZTP, as well as the payment of the remaining part of the outstanding loan after the expiry of the deadline for returning certain to the government's conclusion. Events after the balance sheet, also a very interesting category, found that no loan from privatisation funds, are now coming to the start of my exposure, in 2005 and 2006 in the total amount of around 15 billion dinars, was recovered in accordance with the government's conclusions, i.e. within the agreed deadline by the end of the financial year in which the loan was paid, was also not returned until 31 December 2008. It is a particularly important thing that is also seen on the basis of the Auditor's Report, only for some 9,000 budget users, since there were no resources to cover the overall budget, but it is also very important that we here, based on this auditor's report, cannot determine, or is it completely unclear how the Ministry of Economy has concluded contracts with fees worth 18.5 million dinars? How is it that, for example, in the Republic Property Directorate, all employees worked overtime and received an extraordinary number on various grounds, which is calculated somewhere in euro 600,000 euros, working so overtime that no man can endure it? Also, we cannot determine what is at the disposal of the state of Serbia, and it concerns its assets, because the documentation absolutely does not correspond to the criteria, or cannot trace what it is that corresponds to the property. Then, also, without the procurement process and these public procurements, a very frantic position in this auditor's report, but the example of the Republic Public Revenue Authority has obtained 110 million dinar fuel bonuses without public procurement procedures. It's just some of the indicators, first of all, that Mr. State Auditor is one of the bravest people in Serbia, because he's got professional courage and we haven't doubted, when we've even talked about his mandate here, that this gentleman will do it and he'll do it and he'll make a revolutionary statement and he says that budget funds are neither spent, there's no reliable documentation of budget spending and when you read all the hundreds of pages of the State Auditor's Reports you realize that this authority, indeed, and some people in this government have to answer for something concerning and as far as law violations are concerned. I would like to hear the answer whether it is a political elite, whether the government in Serbia is exempt from responsibility, because that answer depends on all my further questions. What is the fact that our funds are emptied, that 700,000 poor people live in Serbia, 300,000 poor children, Mrs Dragutinovic, that in Serbia almost every third family has terrible existential problems, that we are all at risk of social and economic security. What really scares us, given this economic, social and political context, is that we are in debt, that we will not be able to return it, to slowly but surely enter into debt slavery. If I had started this finding at the beginning, it is my political belief, very likely not to agree with that, but this introduction that I gave, as far as the State Auditor's Report is concerned, really gives me the right to think in the following way – that there is no domestic business in Serbia. Perhaps you as a person and your ministry and yet a certain ministry, not all ministries have acted in the way the state auditor talks about it, and we can't even know because it's only been covered for one year, but the fact that it's only been covered enough for one year is saying that the elite, the democratic elite, who is in power, doesn't want to show the citizens how their funds are being spent. Why? Because there is a regular purchase of social peace and an arithmetically created political coalition of power. That's the only answer to the question. Also, I have been bold enough to, as an MP, imagine, work on my parliamentary obligation, just following, for me, the most important act, such as the Serbian Constitution and wanting to have that kind of supervision over the work of the executive bodies in Serbia, sent you a letter – where are the donations? We know that a substantial amount of donations and certain grants have entered this country since 2000. You, of course, have, as a professional of reputation, responded to me in due time and referred me, imagine, to the governor of the National Bank. I have repeated this question several times and asked that in positions, since all foreign funds have to go through the National Bank account, to give me precisely and precisely – which institutions, within what time period, in what amount have they received certain donations, from which countries and by which projects, if possible? We never got the answer. That's another reason that gives us a lot of right to suspect that you're actually pouring budgets from hollow to blank. You really owe yourself every year at an increasing amount, you don't implement reforms, you buy social peace, and you only hold a position of power or position. It makes me feel that the government in Serbia lives in a completely parallel space where there really is no contact with the average citizens, with a man who is due to survive one single month in the state of Serbia. So, he absolutely doesn't care how the government, which he has determined in the elections to bring a man's life to him, that's what he does, but he doesn't have that kind of security, he's a victim of transition, he can't educate his children, he can't treat himself normally. Why? Because we here in parliament, it's the only place where we can do it, some very smart people before us said that parliament, compared to bureaucracy and power, is the only one who can make this kind of control. Someone long before us found it precisely because of this kind of abuse, we're not the first, we're not the last country to do this, but the problem is that we're regularly talking about it, we're presenting concrete evidence. You may suspect if they come from the ranks of the SRS, but if the state auditor says so, what about responsibility? If there is a fact that the 2009 review report is done in this way, then that's enough reason to say that you want to actually hide the way the government operates, because if it wasn't, we'd have an auditor's report for each year and we'd know exactly why it's important. The opposition is not there to politically criticise everything without arguments, the opposition is a control mechanism, so that all of us, first of all, in one country, would be better. For years, we have been saying that the revision is necessary because of the transparent business, because in 2000 you convinced us all that transparency is entering Serbia. We don't see her. When 2009 came as a transparent part of spending budgets, excuse me, but if you ask me as a mere citizen every day more and more and more from your wallet every day on a growing number of counters I pay and every day I have a lot of resources in various shops that are not available and I have a problem with feeding my family because family members are left without work every day, then I have the right to ask you what is wrong with my money and who will answer for non-intentional spending, for sloppy records, for borrowing to whom I seem to be a common citizen, looks like debt slavery. You once when we spoke on the subject of budget rebalancing, you said of course that the state is in debt during the crisis, it is, and everyone will tell you that it's normal logic, there's nothing controversial about it. Tell me where this country's business is, how many people are employed, if we can secure pensions for the pensioners. We're here now discussing concepts with a pension system, what about pension funds? Who took that money? Where did your money go? So the state is also taking over certain obligations, and you can't suddenly change the system as a certain state has been functioning for decades. What about the privatisation funds? What about bad privatisation, what about kidnapping? Serbia is managed by a dozen people. Serbia has its own bosses. It's a movie that takes place in front of us every time we try to talk about things like that. What's also another fact, this second item of the agenda is talking about the second programme loan, which, you'll correct me if I'm wrong, is 70.8m euros in one drag tranche. It's clear to me from the explanation of where these funds should go. I believe that these are very awkward issues and that as a person you can't answer all these questions and that there should be a whole government, I'm just talking about the perspective of average life in Serbia. That's all I care about. So, I'm not interested in economic categories from certain scientific publications at all, I'm just interested in how, in the end, that doesn't interest the citizens, we can't have an intellectual debate here, I'd like to do it first, but we just have to bring a normal life here, a decent man in Serbia. We don't have it, it's harder to live in Serbia. I'm telling you again, 300 thousand is poor children. These children dream of meat, of fruit, of candy, of clothing, of clothing. These children have no right to a man's life and there is no environment in Serbia that does not have that kind of problem. Where are the old faces, where are the disabled faces, where are the other vulnerable categories? I'm saying all this because I know it's extremely difficult for you to deal with. Also, I am fully aware of the fact that you are not responsible for the condition you have found, but you have taken over a very responsible job and should offer the best possible answer in this time. It really seems to me that you should look like a wizard from the beginning of your mandate to create this kind of magic but, Mrs Dragutinovic, one of the very important professional things is to withdraw the question of responsibility. This people must know who put him in this situation. These parents need to know who took their children's lives the way the other little ones have, who took away their children's ability to eat fruit, to heal, to live normally. So the question of responsibility is very important. On the other hand, how much are we talking about something that should be a motivation of development and the private sector and the creation of a growing number of jobs, the employment of an increasing number and percentage of victims of transition, because it's very difficult, and I think we're going to get that picture soon, simply that we have the exact data, when there's a precise data coming from the labour market, when there's a concrete fact that after 35 or 45 years, people are mostly out of work, who's going to receive it? Of course, employers are most often blackmailed in a wide variety of ways. One way is, there's no sickness, no rest, you work overtime, you become a little slave with a tendency to never get big, because you can't even experience it. What is also a very important fact again is for us how this country thinks it is speeding up all these domestic companies that are supposed to be working on certain investments in the state of Serbia, so eventually, the system of Olympic circles comes to a family that will be able to feed its children. Since 8 December 2009, we have a very interesting intersection that builds in Serbia when these money is obtained for certain infrastructure works. Mrs Dragutinovic, what is a frat fact, is that they don't build domestic companies, but mostly foreign companies do. Domestic rares, again those who are of the will of certain elites, enter the ability to earn something. In order not to paraphrasise again, the example: the reconstruction of Pozeljska Street in Belgrade won the Austrian firm "Switerski". To go by the following logic, how is this Austrian firm getting a job and who is the manager's percentage promised this company a job, so that's the principle of responsibility. Furthermore, what is also very important is the construction of a bridge on Adi, entrusted to the Austrian company Por, the reconstruction of the Gazela Bridge, which will cost about 50m euros for the Austrian Strabac, while the construction of the Beška bridge is worth over three billion dinars, entrusted to the Austrian company Alpina. Look, this is a tragic situation. On the one hand, you're telling us to borrow funds to invest in a business environment, to somehow contribute to GDP, to the private sector's share, if I understand correctly in the explanation, by 2010 more than 60%. Explain how? You may have the best intentions, but in certain institutions, it's a system of responsibility, there are people who are managerial thinking, who say that a 50m-euro job is costing so much for their wake-ups, and that Serbian citizens should know, that someone regularly steals them, and that's why domestic firms can't get jobs, not an explanation, as we have the opportunity to hear, that our companies don't meet certain standards. How could they have responded for so many years, and now suddenly they don't? Serbia, Mrs Dragutinovic, despite your enormous will to bring things to normal, has been ruined by managers working for foreign companies, lobbyists working for the Brussels administration, because it was more important to them, or the amount in their bank accounts, than the lives of Serbian citizens, and that is the only truth. What we also had in this analysis to read, in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, according to Goran Rodic, calculated that the state only lost around 25m euros on these jobs I mentioned. Let's recalculate how much financial support parents with children can make out of these funds. Who's going to be responsible for this? Or shall we regularly speak of the same thing and let the people in the streets ask us, who was responsible for such a thing? Who answers, say, if one lobbyist group gathered around there by a senator, who is otherwise accused of corruption, were to make a terrible sum of money and make a very bad deal for the state of Serbia? When we asked for that kind of lobbying contract, which, of course, is a legitimate act and should be lobbied for this country, we got the answer that it's top secret. Why is that top secret, what's it hiding from us? That's not what MPs are looking for for. The MPs are asking for it because of the people. If we're here every day under the splendor of the people, be assured that we'll have to put the power under the heat of the bat until he's the first to answer. Also, what Serbian citizens should know is exactly the contract we were talking about, which refers to lobbying for the state of Serbia, listed at the justice ministry under 5933. It is a contract with the owner of the consulting house Milan Petrovic, chief money collector Rod Blagojevic. Let me remind you, this is the former governor of the state of Illinois, who was otherwise accused of attempting to sell the senator's seat that belongs to that state. What's more than obvious here is that we haven't been able to win, but the very quick thing has been covered up, and we're taking it out again to the surface, is what kind of contract it is, because the state of the budget, of all of us, has given extraordinary resources to this house, and we don't know how these funds are spent, and I'm going to tell you now. The two main branches for this job are another company, along with the mentioned company of Ilinoj's lobbyist Milan Petrovic, which together costs 145,000 dollars each month or a million 740,000 dollars a year. (President: Time. I'm finishing my sentence, thank you for your warning. Through these agencies, and there are other firms, which are impossible as usual to find on the internet, what is also very important is that the contract with the said firm was signed by Tamara Stojcevic, Secretary General of the RS government on 30 April this year. What's also very significant is that we'll never know what these significant funds are being spent on, because we didn't get an insight contract. The contract is classified as top secret. You will admit that in the light of the global economic crisis, i.e. in the first place of the global financial crisis, when you look to save from all these categories, and so on from families with children, this is a very important item that should be discussed, as well as the report from the auditors, to discuss it right here, and I really expect you as a responsible person and professional to initiate a question of responsibility for all of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33817	After a 60-minute break from 15.00 hours, we'll continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33818	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work on the finding that on the lists of MPs there are no more entries for the word, and before the conclusion of a joint single search, a representative, namely the president of the NS parliamentary group, Mr Velimir Ilic, applied for the word. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33819	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam Minister, and today we have on the agenda a set of laws that bring new duties, a new credit line, which is certainly expected to improve some extremely bad situation in Serbia, the economy, but will be a weak vision. Credit lines refer primarily to corridors and I am very sorry that the minister of infrastructure is not there. It is true that corridors will be built, corridors and should be built, but corridors, as they are, employ extremely few people. Big debts, big credit lines, and a very small employment of people who will be involved, workers in the corridors themselves. It is therefore extremely unwarranted that the violent concession that was brought to work on the Horgos-Požega highway, in the first stage, in the second Požega-South Adriatic. All countries in the vicinity of highways work in concessions, not credit lines. Why? Which will be burdened by the credit line by Serbia and the state's credit potential will be significantly reduced, so that there are no credit lines, which should be, in agriculture, in construction, to run construction, in electricity, in many other sectors of economic activity that are extremely significant. It's mostly export-related agriculture. It's the easiest way to get a credit for the freeway, and everybody gives it away. It can be obtained without any problems, but I repeat, no country in the environment builds a highway with its own budgets, no state works, rarely which, on the highways with loans, because they cannot reach those most needed. How many people would be employed in agriculture, in production, in the processing of agricultural products, if the credit lines intended for highways were transferred to agriculture and to construction. Construction also this year, as a backbone of the development of the Serbian economy, has an extremely small perspective as the greatest potential for the start-up of the Serbian economy in the coming year. Therefore, it is only now clear how wrong the advice made and led by the President of the Republic is, and the deputy is Dinkic, to destroy a concession that was an extraordinary project, is very favourable because it would have financed itself from the toll collection, and the credit lines would have been released for other branches of the economy. It was then seen that there would be these problems that had come to pass through the Statute of Vojvodina and through the transfer of jurisdiction, and this had been shown and proved in practice. That's why it's easy to see that we're the only ones here who don't do corridors and highways to concessions like they do in all other countries. In addition, I remember perfectly well, as Minister of Resorni, when Mobtel was being sold, when the shopping houses "Belgrade" were being sold and when the third operator was being sold in telecommunications. The total value of these three companies is 2,260m euros. Two billion and 260m euros, and it was agreed to complete the corridors, and this was the plan of then Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, to invest funds in corridors and in railways. It wasn't any of it. The money was spent in the full amount on the election campaign and was not purposely spent on what was then the deal. The outgoing government handed it over to the government, headed by Mirko Cvetkovic, with this much funds, and the funds, Madam Minister, are gone. What they're spent on, I don't know. While I followed they were, the department stores were only later charged, the third operator was later charged, and Mobtel was charged in full. So, at the end of that government, since it was a technical government, the funds were not spent. They were said to be funds for Corridor 10. During my term of office, there was no talk of corridors, but 68 km of Corridor 10 was done. During this government, two construction seasons only talk about corridors, and so far about 25 km of Corridor 10, two years and two construction seasons have been done. If it continues at this pace of work, and by borrowing this much, it takes us the next hundred years to complete the corridors, if at this rate it works. Secondly, highways, corridors are said to be made from the sale of Mobtel and this one. Why? So the contractors could be domestic companies. International loans, which we are now receiving, are being tendered and none of our companies from foreign companies can get a job at any major job on Corridor 10 if they're going to tender, if they're going to an international tender, which banks are looking for in this case. So it was with the Beška Bridge, so it was with the part of Novi Sad - Belgrade highway, with the reconstruction of many roads, etc., Shabac, Loznica and everything else. Our companies that were blocked and in a difficult situation, travellers, due to their non-payment of government obligations, came into a difficult situation and could not get a job in an international tender, the banks did not give them the green light. Now it's happening again. The companies were in debt to extend funds not allocated from the NIP, and were intended for previous years and for the transition from the directorate to the JP Roads of Serbia, and now Mrs Kalanovic owes the passengers seven billion with interest in a year. What does that mean? That the same task will be, here's the plan to be owed 860 million with interest, only to the company Plan, not to list the other companies to be owed. Therefore, this is one big mistake that the government has accepted to eliminate an extraordinary concession project and move on to credit lines and NIP, there is no funds there. NIP is an artificial creation, now nothing is sold, privatisation, I don't see the purpose of the existence of NIP. The NIP just serves here to deposit, to go through the budget part of the funds, and to deploy that part afterwards to various regulations as it pleases. It's not a good policy, it's been working for years and it's been very bad. However, these credit lines that are now coming, primarily for Vojvodina, will not bring any new funds tolling. Why? Novi Sad - Subotica is charged, although it is not a highway, which is illegal, but a credit line infrastructure was made. It's the Beška Bridge, the temeric loop is 55m euros. The batinic loop costs over 50m euros. Bridge Beška 56m euros. The overpasses, the underpassers, all the infrastructure that has been completed on the corridor, and now it is necessary to provide a route that is also cheapest when all these facilities are completed and when complete infrastructure is completed that monitors the highway. There are no new pumps, new jobs, new motels, hotels, restaurants and anything that would cause more employment and greater profits. Then, a very interesting story that I had last started, where the pressure is now being placed on Serbia's roads that a Slovenian, among them, company Nuba Invest, owned by a tycoon of Slovenia's Rastko Tomasic, who applied to pass through corridors with optical cables and Minister Dulic gave him consent and a proposal to the Puts to accept it and confirm it. We won't have any profit here, but will have from these loans from the company outside and outside tycoons, in co-operation with our government and our domestic tycoons, and to the gods and some ministers. It's impossible to do the same thing, what I was talking about last time, what was done for cable TV. Now Serbian citizens have to pay both RTS and cable TV, and cable television, or Soros, has entered every household with optical cables, without dinar compensation, completely free of charge, and it is very incorrect, that a natural resource is given free of charge, which is extremely important to the state of Serbia. Therefore, these credit lines that will now pass in this set of laws are good to do, but I repeat, the agreement was to make concessions on highways, to work from these assets from the sale of Mobtel corridors and to charge Serbia with credit lines for agriculture, energy and construction. However, now everything will go to the corridors and everything I've talked about so far, so for these very crucial branches of the Serbian economy, agriculture, there will be little credit lines, little opportunities, and there are resources that are the largest and greatest employments that exist. Thus, the Roads will be brought into a difficult situation. Why? Because there's nothing to charge for these loans to be serviced, because what's going to be built is already under charge, and it's an extremely large charge. The most expensive toll in Serbia is on this section according to Subotica, where there are no conditions for payment at all, because it is not a full profile of the highway and cannot be charged with tolls under the law. There are no loans for the processing of agricultural products. It's a big problem for Serbia. We expected a lot of funds to be invested here next year. We talked about the processing Serbia is not now. Serbia has nothing to carry except plums, raspberries and all that at great prices. There's no processing. Serbia had large milk production, destroyed it, and imports of milk powder, no processing. Serbia has no processing of juices, syrups, porridges, etc., and this was the backbone of Serbia's agricultural and development exports to Serbia of fruit growing and all that was happening. That's why we insisted on building a full profile of the highway through the Forest towards Montenegro. Why? Because he would pull all the installations, optical cables, electrical installations, gas pipelines, motels, hotels, gas stations. Gentlemen of the government, we used to have offers for these highways, to pump up buildings, and to pay for a lot of highway construction. The pumps, however, are being given again to some tycoons, who have been devoid of locations and have not given the state any major damages, nor have they paid what they build in the roadland, in the land of the corridor, for years. Now the optical cables are starting, and now the electrical-various installations are going to start. Of course, Nis – Dimitrovgrad on the highway is intended to build a pipeline and that was economically profitable. The first project that was done with the Russians was scheduled to follow the highway corridor. On the arrival of Mirko Cvetkovic, he wanted to enter his hometown, in Zaječar and leave the highway route and have been asked to redesign the road. Then, it is now required to redesign part of the highway, to stop by this place, to stop at that place, etc., and begin politicizing and tactics, to see where, who and what political interest it has. That is not good, because Serbia's spatial plan has clearly defined corridors, where highways will be built and how they will be built and how. I repeat, the great mistake of this government is that it does not enter concessions, as it is done in the world, to free the country from credit lines, because concessions are only justified, and everyone is doing so in the environment, Bulgarians, Romanians, now and Hungarians, Croats and everyone is doing concessions, just us with a clean credit line. They're doing concessions, and they're giving us funds through their banks to do credit lines. It's nowhere in the world. You saw, the Greeks don't have a piece of corridor through Greece towards Thessaloniki. Why? Because it's a little traffic, and when we talked to the Greek Saminist, he said the highway was unprofitable. I argue that the road to the Macedonian border is neither profitable nor profitable now, regardless of how profitable Corridor is for the NATO base nor for several municipalities below, but is not profitable for the state. The maintenance of the highway, in order for the road to be cost-effective, the corridor must have eight thousand cars a day. It's expensive maintenance of the highway. Vertical, horizontal signalling, snow cleaning, protective fences, cutting grass, the width of the pay corridor, the charging ramps and everything else is causing extremely high costs, which is not taken into account and will surely have to be budgeted to touch it where there is no traffic. We don't make highways where we have 27,000 cars a day. There are 27,000 cars a day in Lazarets. There's 17,000 cars a day at Kelly's. It's impossible technically, we can pass a traffic safety law, but traffic security isn't on a master's road where traffic is greater than 10,000 cars and there's no highway profile. That's how all the regulations dictate it. We don't take care of that. We always have someone on the side to tell and whisper to some of our people, and they go right ahead and say, we're doing corridors 10. Let's work towards Macedonia. We do it, but how much is it going to cost, gentlemen, a tunnel through the Throat ravine? When it will be paid and how to pay for traffic, which is currently wasted up to 6,000 cars a day, six thousand, in the biggest tourist season, when I repeat, Greeks who use exceptional tourists who come on that highway do not give. The Greeks didn't give us that 100m euros, which Djelic has been talking about for five years, that all they have to do is make payments, and they can't make it to our expense. Therefore, we need to do a little household business in Serbia and we need to take care of our economy, our employment. Serbia has a million people waiting for work and should take credit lines, of course, but invest where hiring through exports will bring it back, to fill the budget. How will the budget be charged if there is no higher employment? From what? You can't charge the budget with credit lines. We've already seen, several times you've been taking retail commercial loans to charge the budget, which is completely unwarranted by law. Therefore, we should simply ask ourselves how to raise our performers to be the bearers of the business that we are in charge of, not the foreigners giving us credit, their companies are working, their tycoons are taking off the corridor, and we're just leaving it to generations that come to pay for it, and then we'll see how to get out of this crisis and how to get through it. I repeat, Ms. Minister, many paths and many credit lines are obtained where there are no paperwork, where there are no building permits, where there are no executive projects and where there are no valid projects. I repeat, Batocha-Kragujevac doesn't have any paper, no license. How is it possible that there was a tender there if there were no projects? How can something be tendered without a project? How can a contractor be introduced without a project? How can you make an overpass without a project? How can the vault release money from the NIP without a project? That's all I care about. It's a good thing you're making a highway, because that's what it occurred to an Italian, and to you government, to survive, you have to do favors, so somebody tells you, I want a piece of the highway. I know very well that we worked five kilometers, because so much of the paperwork was stored, the rest was gone. (President: I thank you, Mr. Ilic. The time of the authorised representative has been used. ) There are contracts for the Treasury with performers, but no project documentation. Just to finish, one project, a bridge on the Sava, with Republika Srpska is not finished, and it cost cheaply. A complete bridge on the Sava, ninem euros, as it is possible that four, five, six times more cost a bridge on Savi (President: I thank you). It's the same river. Maybe it's a little bigger.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33820	We understand. Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right to Article 93? Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. The remaining time is five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33821	Finally, I will conclude, it seems to me, most obviously, how much debt to cover the budget deficit is something that we cannot allow, as a Assembly, that we only record another loan in which, among other things, this government takes loans from business banks, where effective interest is 5.66%, puts such funds into the budget, and then grants to subsidised loans for purposes for which we did not agree as a society that they were most prospective, for example, tourism, under interest, which is lower than the purchase price, for example, these loans, are only to someone, and what citizens need not cars old for new or not just cars old for new ones. So, no citizen would ever do to buy a thing at a more expensive price and sell it at a cheaper rate, except for the political activity of a man you allow to create his own promotion and projects that are essentially imagined as a perpetum of a mobile, it represents successful projects. We citizens don't care if it's your coalition deal. Do you have the strength to deal with this because we are left with undeniable bad results? I can personally thank you for respecting our MPs and that promise of delivering a loan agreement with the business banks we have, and here in that contract we can see what we would otherwise not know exists in the loan contracts. For example, a nicely defined effective interest rate of those 4.75% margin plus 1%, but on page 18, please note, point 10) - changes in market circumstances, market disturbances: "If at any time the bank concludes (means, there are no real reasons for the changes, no figure is listed, no criterion, only the bank concludes, this conclusion will be final, undeniable and binding for the user) that for the reasons for the changes affecting the European interbank market there are no other adequate and regular means to determine the interest rate on this loan' and then the bank can determine the interest as it wishes. When I say variable interest which today looks favourable, for a 20-year loan that is taken for failure, because where the budget deficit is, but is not an infrastructure investment, it's filling the debt with long, passive passive and snowballs one day has to melt. There's nothing you can do about it. You can't go from debt to non-investment consumption and some major income is created by some miracle income from which this will be covered. That's what you can see here. We are at the mercy of those whose contracts and we do not know what they look like, but only here do we sign principle agreements in which the delay clauses are not seen, unlike the citizens who know immediately, even when they are tried for wrong, when they are late with a fee, they have to pay fines on an untimely paid fee. There's no defense there. The only protection that we MPs offer to you, to come before us with full information, that that time between the Serbian government and the official messenger, where regulations are published, be here, not holding back, but really useful reviewing solutions that should not be at the expense of citizens. In that sense, don't let these laws discuss progress, before the end of the year, quickly, as if these things don't produce long-term effects. We are MPs here to help because we are citizens first of all, and we want because of you who will be citizens tomorrow, not the government, to put less burden on the state and all of us together.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33822	I am concluding a joint single search on the drafts of the law at paragraphs 7 to 11. On the basis of Article 85, today we will continue our work after 1800 hours, but no longer than 20.00 hours. We're on direct television broadcast by 19.00 hours, that one hour will be on a delayed transmission. We move on to a search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda. Excuse me, do you want a word? Would you like to answer? Sign up, please, or you'll be the first to have a word in the next segment anyway. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2010. One year, with the proposals for a decision to give consent to the financial plans for 2010. THE YEAR OF THE REPUBLICAL FUND FOR THE PENSION AND INVALID SURVEILLANCE, THE REPUBLIC’S PUBLIC AUTHORITIES AND NATIONAL JOBS SERVICES (single) shall be the President on the basis of Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to all ministers in the government, called for the session to be attended by Ruzica Stojiljkovic, an assistant finance minister. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Boris Peleić, Mileta Pokurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković and Dragan Colić; jointly Milan Dimitrijić and Željko Tomić, Nena Popović, Zoran Krasić, Zoran Krasović and Donka Banović, Nikola Lazić, Smić, Sreć, Sretović, Sretno Paštović, Milić, Mila Žažić, Mira Ža Mira Pošažić and Žiljić. You received a report from the Finance Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Written by amendments to Article 7. Section 23 was withdrawn by MP Stefan Zankov. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? I'm sorry, Mr. Arsic, but Madam Minister Diana Dragutinovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33823	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although we will be hanging out these days, I needed to speak to you before this debate. First, because this previous discussion on the package of laws that definitely represent the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia was some mix of discussions on these laws, but perhaps much more, however, on the most important law, on the 2010 budget law. So I might use a few minutes and give some of my observations to these borrowing laws, as well as comments on some of your discussions. I would like to remind everyone from this place together again of the roles that international financial institutions play in this not very pleasant phase of the economic cycle. All these international financial institutions where we are in debt, and let me remind you once again that they are the World Bank, the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, all of them are working coordinatedly on providing capital and credit lines. The support of these institutions is double. One is meant for the budget, to finance the deficit, because when the budget is balanced or if you have a surplus, you don't need to be in charge. Another type of support is the investment or co-financing of large or small infrastructure projects or priority projects, of which infrastructures, small and medium-sized enterprises, energy efficiency and the financial sector are of the utmost importance. There's been a lot of talk about the World Bank's loans. Somehow, everyone accepts more project loans that focus on concrete projects. When loans from the World Bank that are conditionally unsuspected, you question them much more. I would like to remind all together that the 2009 budget rebalance provided for loans from the World Bank and you have the first of the three programme loans to improve public finances and it is worth $100m, or, who prefers euro, about 70m euros and the second of the three programming loans for the development of the private and financial sector. These loans are so-called. conditional loans. We have the right, if this parliament verifies them, to withdraw them very quickly, but that withdrawal is conditioned by something we've already done. What is it that we've already done, and what is a condition enough to withdraw these funds? It's the first new law on the budget system. It's a state aid law. It's a competition law. It's the introduction of a one-shot system. It's a law on spatial planning and construction. It's some legal framework that improves the business environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33824	I'm sorry, Minister, I have to interrupt you, because under Article 143(7), you have the right to explain each amendment, but for up to two minutes, with your total time being three hours. In the final word, you have the right to speak for as long as it takes, so please finish your thought now or turn yourself off. Anyway, I'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33825	Okay, I wanted to get this over with. There will be an opportunity to point out and give an opinion on your comments, but approximately that the option of fiscal policy at a time of crisis is an increase in deficits to ease recessions and that's what we do, that's the security of deficit funding, that's exactly this package of laws that's in front of you today, and that's, of course, moderate borrowing and investment in infrastructure. Just in the end, I'd remind you, someone said the numbers only count, I'm not going to say the numbers. The MP said the numbers, but Ambassador Shami would criticise me, really, the numbers only count. We're not really in charge of the country. We are below the upper limit of the less-indebted countries, and at the same time I remind you that during this period when the state is in debt, the private sector is due and I promise we will continue the discussion during this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33826	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic reported. Here you go. If you'll excuse me, I'm going to advertise an injury to what I said, I confess in advance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33827	I'm not going to advertise that, I just don't think the Minister understood us, it's arranged by Article 104. Mrs Dragutinovic, our criticisms were, right there, much wider than the law itself because, although these laws we discussed are terribly precise and leave no special space for discussion, they come directly from something that is the essence of the budget, it is economic policy. You mentioned here, citing as your arguments, some preconditions that allow us to withdraw these loans immediately, and we are in those preconditions that you mentioned, and they refer to the laws that have been passed here, we see a fundamental problem for one of the wrong economic policies in the country. We're not talking about intentions, we're talking about what our reality is. You mentioned, say, the Law on Planning and Construction. Now, not to mention the effects of this law, here is Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, so now we can run a lot of things, pointing to the anomalies they talked about during the session in June when we criticised the bill. I'll just tell you that the ministry has changed 14 versions of this bill and there are no touching points between certain versions, except that the title says it's the Law on Planning and Construction, but 26 sublaws the government had to pass to apply the law. You brought three. Not to enter into the concept of the law now, which we consider to be wrong, that he badly compromised the business climate in Serbia, but of 26 you brought three. You mentioned the Budget System Act. Look at the scandal that happened with the DRI, with the serious problems that exist. We adopted the final bill in Belgrade, with the Implementation Report. A lot of LDP pressure, the city council did it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33828	Time, Mr. Jovanovic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33829	I'm sorry, but it's been 30 seconds for your question. We did it. All your arguments, they're at the level of principle, acceptable to us, but if we're talking about realisation, there's no such thing. For the anti-monopol code, look at what the realization looks like. We don't have a commission that's credible, that can work. We're here on a big hike. You mentioned one of the counters. We know what it looks like in real life.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33830	The word is Mr. Ilic, who also advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33831	I would ask the Minister's office not to insult Parliament's dignity in the future and member of the 104th Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, to provide accurate and accurate information. Madam Minister, you are the Minister of Finance, and you must speak very carefully, loudly and clearly. This is about the budget. You've got it all undefined, it's stuck, it's blurry. I can't listen anymore, my bowels roll when I listen – credit for small and medium-sized enterprises, for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. How Dinkic infected you with that infection, that's what you're all talking about. Ma'am, what companies? Where are the companies, how many people are employed? Are they creditworthy, are they returning the credit lines they took and whose members they are? Is it true, here in Chačka is an open company, carried by "G Company", President G17 plus, opened a company that no one needs, for nothing, because there are thousands, shops, warehouses, etc. How can we use international loans, inaccurately, to develop small and medium-sized enterprises? It's such a broad term, it's like when you say it's going to rain next year. When, will it be dry year, birth, etc.? You're so... Or -- the funds are in the NIP, eight billion. What is eight billion used for? We want items, broken -- two billion for the corridor that and that, four billion for the corridors 10, two billion for the highway, a billion for this. You speak precisely, please, if you respect this Parliament and if you respect the MPs. The worst thing is to speak so extensively. We're taking credit for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and you've covered everything. Where's that money, how and how it's spent...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33832	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. Time's up. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure you point to. The speaker’s dignity certainly takes care of whether it is a minister or a MP. If you're not satisfied, in voting day, we can plead. Thank you. The word has been delivered by MP Veroljub Arsic, who submitted on behalf of the 21st People's MP, Forward Serbia's amendment to Article 1. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33833	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I see Mrs. Minister's wish to change her story from the beginning, as she explained the budget. Perhaps it's even a little provoked by this amendment. Otherwise, Madam Minister, you've tried us in one more decent way, kindly, with a smile, to try to make us swallow a bitter bite, called the 2010 budget. It's bitter because, in all respects of you, I have to say that this government is unprofessional, grammatical and full of abuse, and that's the problem with this whole budget. If that's the case, we'll see later when there's a debate in particular. In your discussion, Madam Minister, I've noticed a lot of optimism. I was just going to ask you, what are you building it on? He doesn't have room today. It's enough to look at the revenue side of the budget and it doesn't take much to go through the value added tax, etc. It is enough to look at the expected incomes of corporate income, projected for 2009 44 billion, projected for 2010 twice as much. You're clear on that. Getting our businesses will be twice as much in 2010. Be happy if half of what you're planning to charge is really charged, because companies have already been paying the fees, now they'll have far less profits, so these fees will sign over more taxes already paid. The explanation you gave why you refused this amendment, in the last position, I can say it's quite rude. It is said - the amendment is explained by the need to reduce borrowing, as well as by the fact that borrowing would make sense if the funds were to be channelled towards stimulating the economy, agriculture and lending and the construction of production plants. According to the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2010, precisely in the amount of total incentives expressed through subsidies, capital expenditures and small loans corresponds to the level of the established fiscal deficit. Let's take a look at the budget. Total subsidies, incentives and investments - 75 billion, and false debt, Madam Minister, 107. I'm saying in 2010, we're gonna be in charge of 400 billion dinars. We wouldn't mind if the real funds provided for by the Budget Law and the credit lines you open were exclusively directed at investments, however, the situation is slightly different. Do you want to explain to me how you're planning for the flag of ten billion dinars of credit borrowing, and we don't know if our partner paid off the 2009 commitments? Since you don't brag about it and Dinkic isn't here, I'm guessing he didn't pay. No problem, we will transfer the powers of the Assembly, if necessary, to be in charge, but when what they owe in 2009 "Fiat" paid us. There's been a lot of stories and semimetics here about pensions, that pensions should be reduced, etc., I don't agree with that, it's my right. Madam Minister, four billion dinars receive employees in the fund. I'm interested in what the average is and how many employees they have in the fund. If they have a salary of 120, 130, 150 thousand directors, then they're really big experts, and I'm surprised why they have such a lack of funds in the employee fund. Our amendment submitted by the SNS parliamentary group actually wants to remind you that you have no right to do so, that you do not have the right to owe the state excessively. It's not an excuse for the global economic crisis and recession that it's going into, but it's a huge, massive state apparatus that's inefficient and ministers who should take care of the economy and not do it, but only take care of themselves and take care of projects. It was a funny public debate between Minister Mrkonjic and Verica Kalanovic, who will be working for the NIP, whether the NIP ministry or the ministry that will use the funds. Why debate at all, it's not a profession, it's a question of making the most of the projects. You have projects by the ministries made by G17 ministers who stand by drawers for 5-6 years and will never be realised. If we were to empower Kalanovic to do this for the entire government, she would invent a plan and a space shuttle programme that Serbia should finance, even though it can never live in life. That's the problem with this government and this budget. As the debate goes further, we'll prove to you that you can make more savings than you really want to show. Madam Minister, let me ask you something else, since you're here, explain how you're reducing the state administration when you have the public pay authority and the agrarian payment administration. In this is the duplication of organs, duplication of ministries, duplication of agencies only to make someone more employed and to form boards of directors, to be further directors, to spend in some way to justify the situation that we are in today. I fully agree with your finding that this is the first budget where the funds that will be used from EU pre-accession funds are seen, but I am sure that this is the last budget that... The next budget will certainly be made by people who care more about citizens, do not think about themselves and will be exclusively in the interest of the state and citizens. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33834	Five minutes and 40 seconds have been used by the MP's group, with apologies, Mr Arsic. The word is made by Minister Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33835	There isn't, sir, the Public Payments Administration, there used to be, there's a vault now. As the name itself says, the vault is completely different from the public payment administration. The vault deals with cash management, not payment traffic. That's a big difference. Within the Treasury, until this agrarian payment administration is created, these functions will be performed, but after the establishment of that administration, it will be where it belongs, within the Ministry of Agriculture. (Veloljub Arsic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33836	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33837	I don't know when the Agrarian Payments Administration will be established, but it's quite certain that Serbia's 2010 budget has it, and if we're talking about the Treasury administration, it's gentlemen we can't unearth the source of income, but as an employee's reward they have to pay in 2010 a million euros. Are we talking about the same administration? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33838	Thank you, too. Parliamentarians Milan Dimitrijevic and Zeljko Tomic submitted together to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from Ambassador Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33839	Madam Minister, we in this amendment predicted that the country's additional value tax would be lower by about five billion. You wrote that there would be 134.5 billion on the basis of some estimates, and that's where we differ in our opinion. Our assessment is that what you predicted is completely unrealistic. It's not the first time you've misjudged things. I will remind you, and in the past budget, when there were promises in the Prime Minister's exposé, 200,000 new jobs, GDP growth is 7.5%. Where are we now? What's reality now? Now we're just trying to point out that you're no longer engaged in these unrealistic processes. Do you know, Madam Minister, what is the economic situation in the state? Do you know that people don't have enough money to buy bread and milk? Do you know that people in butchers buy a hundred grams of meat? You base it on personal consumption of that assessment. That's just impossible. Do you know how many hungry people are in Serbia today? Do you know how many soup kitchens open? What are people gonna buy from? On what basis will VAT grow? Did you base it on maybe spending people from the ruling coalition, on their party infrastructure, maybe they can buy, and most of Serbia has no money to buy. That's why your estimates are real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33840	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrievich. National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33841	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the price of oil in 2008 was on average 50% higher than in this year 2009, and yet excise duties were charged in Serbia, which is one of my favorite topics, as well as yours, grew. For the last 10 days, the price of oil on the world market has dropped seven dollars, and we still have the same price. Of course it's when the price is the largest tax exemption, it's much bigger than the manufacturer's profits. The participation of excise and VAT costs in the fuel price exceeds 60% and therefore not market movements, but government policies which do not worry about what the consequences of this are for the economy and the construction. Transporters mainly fill tanks before entering Serbia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia. We will not all leave Serbia as before to fill our tanks abroad. In 2010, there is a further increase in excise revenues from 128 to 135 billion dinars. Excises on whiskey or cigarettes are completely justified, but products such as coffee or gasoline, which meet the basic needs of the population or represent some petty pleasures, cannot be the main source of budget deficit coverage. That is why we have also submitted an amendment that includes reducing budget projections from excises from 131 to 120 billion dinars, because we believe that these revenues are based on direct burdens of citizens' standards and because of the price of gasoline, the competitiveness of the economy. If the price of oil goes down, it should be felt by citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33842	Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic, after the amendment. The word is Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33843	One of the main problems of failure that we face year after year is political demagogy and this is one example of this demagogy. When we discussed here the quality of the energy agreement with the Russian Federation, whose foundations were just defined by Mr Popovic and his president, and then Prime Minister Kostunica, and then heartily supported it here as an opposition in parliament, we were just warning of what the amendment now points to as one of the basic problems. It is not only the excise tax in the region or one of the largest in Europe, but also the processing price of oil in our refinery that is unwarrantedly high. The mine rent we talked about here last week is 10 times lower than it was in Russia. You can't, Mr. Popovic, come here and come out with the amendment like no one's carrying the responsibilities we face as a country. We did not market and non-transparently privatise NIS. We cut the budget for the revenue that the budget would have generated if NIS had been sold as sold by some other companies. There are examples of how the tobacco industry in Nis was sold, the tobacco industry in Vranj, as privatized "Mobtel". In a political trade owned by RS, NIS moved into the ownership of another state. It's the Russian Federation. What the finance ministry is doing right now is just trying to figure out how to patch up those holes that were created in the time when you were irresponsiblely financially acting, and that's why I feel the need to react. Another piece of evidence that we were right is when we said that we couldn't privatise NIS that way and it's not a good situation when the opposition with the opposition is polyming, but we're not an opposition to common sense. We're an alternative. Here's an argument why you were wrong. It's true that last year was a year where 50% was more oil than this year, but what about profits from that year's NIS? Who ran the NIS then? Who ran it in 2007? Who failed to react and protect the state's actions in "Yugorosgas"? It's your government. It's your policy. You were one of the negotiators. You went to Moscow. That's where the negotiating teams were waiting for you. The Russian side is absolutely protected in the privatisation process. Ours isn't. That is why you can go to the ‘United Russia’ conventions and be a joyful guest there. There you will always be happy to see guests, because you have tasked Russia with harming Serbia and you and your prime minister. So here when we talk about NIS or the price of gasoline, fuel, then I guess this country has come to its senses and that people who are watching this are rare who can even follow this parliament, now understand how right we were when we organized demonstrations because of the way the NIS was privatized, when we protested against the agreement. Not because of an agreement with Russia, but against the idea that today in Serbia is doing what is no longer allowed in Russia itself, to promote the privatisation that Putin was dealing with in Russia in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33844	Mr Jovanovic, three and a half minutes from the time of the parliamentary group or the president of the parliamentary group? (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: The President. ) Thank you very much. Mr. Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33845	Mr. Chairman, it is interesting that always representatives of some opposition parties very often when the government comes into trouble to pass some law supports the law and I am not surprised that in this case instead of criticising the budget, which they believe is destroying the domestic economy, they are criticising an opposition that suggests something that is entirely in the interest of the RS and RS citizens. They repeat once again, the price of excise duties, i.e. the value of excise duties, reaches as much as 60% of the value of excise duties, VAT in the price of gasoline. That's what worries us, because we have the biggest excises in the region and one of the biggest in Europe. By this we are indeed a European leader and that is a big problem. It has nothing to do with selling NIS. They repeat what I was saying back then, which is that the job with Gazprom Oil, which bought NIS, is the best job Serbia has signed in the last 40 years, taking into account a package of arrangements in which the construction of the South Stream pipeline is. We see that these days Slovenia is doing everything possible to enter the "South Stream". We see that these days Croatia is doing everything. We see that Austria has done everything, Italy, Germany, France, and we can be too pleased to be part of the biggest European project. Also, I have to say one very important thing, this job I claim is the best job Serbia has signed in the last 40 years, because of my opposition colleagues, which I normally respect, voted the entire National Assembly, minus 15 MPs, I think. It seems to me that 230 MPs voted for this deal and there's nothing to add to it anymore. Of course, both representatives and authorities and opposition voted for it. I agree that we should be an opposition to common sense and, in this case, opposition MPs and government deputies voted, because, according to all energy experts in Europe, at congresses and symposiums held in the last year, in analytical files, Serbia has practically received a clean heel for this contract and won an outstanding economic rating for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33846	Thank you. Mr Popovic, three minutes from the time of the parliamentary group or from the time of the authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33847	I'm sorry, this was a replica. I was mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33848	You didn't ask for it, you didn't get it. You can only say one thing or the other.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33849	It was a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33850	It's not a replica. Thank you. Then this goes from the time of the authorized representative. We won't discuss it. I asked you nicely. You won't answer, then it's mine to say that I took...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33851	I've answered you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33852	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33853	Mr. Popovic, my kids at school are rated from one to five, and that five of you is on a scale where they start grades at five, and they end up at 10. It is true, both Italy and Austria, and Slovenia, and Croatia, all competed, did the job, but for themselves. There is no country in the 21st century that has signed a contract with the Russian Federation as signed by Serbia, not by the quality that goes into favour of Serbia, but by the damage we suffer because you agreed to what no other state has agreed to, unless you say about a country that has agreed to enter into an arrangement in which a minority partner is. That's not what Slovenia did either. Italy didn't do it either. Bulgaria didn't do it either. Neither Turkey, Greece nor any of the countries that signed any agreement with the Russian Federation agreed to the relations you agreed to. That's the facts. As you said yourself, you cannot be an opposition to common sense. Let's see today what the result of this common sense on which you've been building your political cooperation project with the Russian Federation? We will give you Serbia's energy future, and you will support us in the short term in a utopia called - we will defend Kosovo by becoming Russian Governor. You see, today Putin is negotiating with Mesic on topics you never mentioned, which is a question of NIS property in Croatia. You were one of the leaders in that business with the others. Take responsibility for that now. You came out here with a story about excises. You've been leading this policy for years. You yourself guaranteed a monopoly of the Russian Federation in Serbia, an oil monopoly guaranteed by the NIS. Who's been running this NIS for the last five years? What did he leave behind? You, and the directors and the principals. They've destroyed everything. Who can we buy gas from? We can buy it from the Russians. Who are they oiling from? Less or less than them, but the point is that we have money for it or we don't have it. Those who have money don't have a problem. We pay for gas more expensive than anyone else. We're the only ones who have a middleman. You bought a middleman in the gas trade business. Does that have to be? He doesn't have to. Is it because I'm saying it? No, that's how it was lived in Serbia led by the government of Zoran Djindjic. It couldn't, and then there were those who were well-intentioned on how it could be done, so we saw Jugorosgas doing business with zero to one moment, and the moment they became majority owners, there was a profit of two billion euros of 20 million euros. How was that possible? What did you allow? You were the government, to lose to four million just in this year 20 million euros in profits? If we're talking about foreign policy, then our foreign policy is a victim of cheap politics. Everyone knows that very well. They know the MPs here, how they voted for that energy agreement. The fact that 15 MPs were against it only speaks of the firmness of the belief on which we are building our own policy, which are not being denied in the meantime. Now that it's been voted, I'm not sure that contract would go through again. We see what it looks like in our reality. The monopoly in the oil trade, destroyed all those who were present at one point on our market, there's nothing from investment in infrastructure, we can't implement the ecological standards that we're bound to do in the process of European integration and the Russians themselves say that they've been deceived because of what they found in that NIS, and they're not the ones who are willing to finance your Javalluk, so what would we be silent about, when they don't shut up about it anymore. We came out with a report that the NIS account is in the plus for three billion, and it turns out it's down. That's the facts. If we're talking facts, then we can't fool ourselves like you're trying to do. I think it's clear to everyone what this is really about. We have no understanding of the government's tight policies. We proposed a future deal a year ago, among other things, the measures to deal with the monopoly, bring down the action, lower the tax, point to an anomaly, which is a terrible cost for this society through the fact that even a litre of an oil derivative is terribly burdened with us. But in the meantime, this burden has increased and this is due exclusively to the price of the growing processing, since the government is not allowing itself to react in line with the changes in the market, especially with the currency changes, and then they remember and now they are increasing the cost of processing and thus providing themselves with a guaranteed profit. You guaranteed them a profile, not us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33854	Four minutes and 50 seconds. Mr. Free Maras has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33855	I had to answer when it comes to this amendment, for the simple reason that Mr Popovic, who came to the Assembly today to defend this amendment, must take care of a few things. He mentioned much about Mr Jovanovic, but of course we were against it, or that we were saying that the excises were very large. Of course we were horrified when the minister in this government boasts that excises are the biggest, and the mining rent is the smallest, but Mr. Popovic, I can't say that you are the creator, but you have greatly contributed to the conclusion of such an arrangement with the Russian Federation. What's just been said, we just need to look at how the Russian Federation treats its interests. Today, President Putin, we have information, correctly mentioning NIS property in Croatia. That never occurred to anyone here. No one thought of what happened to the old Russian debt Serbia has. It never occurred to anyone to say, we're not going to import gas on Bereg's, give it to us on Horgos, we're not going to bear all the costs. When you negotiated, you didn't take care of it. Now you're asking the question why the excises are this big. I think it's extremely inappropriate. We have a situation where NIS operates with an incredible loss, as Mr. Jovanovic said, for five years the directors were from the DSS and made most of the boards. When they were no longer directors, they were council directors. Please, those people are responsible for 2008 too. Now we ask the question, why the excises are this big. To ask the question, why can't we, as a country, influence the price of oil processing, that's what Minister Skundric said here, the Russian side determines that. As I said before, 1% changes everything, 51% property, 100% management. We, Mr Popovic, are in such a situation unfortunately thanks to, before the world, to hire you and to support you in this House. I am really proud that 15 of us were against this agreement and time shows and will show and more that we were right, that we were only looking for one thing, which is to take care of Serbia's interests. Serbia's interests have been violated, and that five you got, I believe you got it, not you, but the state for the job, because it was protecting the interests of a foreign state, not its own.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33856	Two minutes and 40 seconds. Mr. Nenad Popovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33857	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33859	I mean, I'm... I'm... I'm... Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will remain in my position, we are criticising the budget today and we are talking about the most important law for 2010, that excise duties are too great and that direct damage to the economy and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Any story now, what was in the past, you can say, I have no problem, I stand, too, in the position that it was one of our best contracts. Once again, I think it would be more logical to put all these remarks forward to the ruling coalition, as all MPs, except for these 15 MPs, voted in favour of this excellent law. And again, in this replica, I have to add, the participation of excise duties in the price of fuel really reaches 60% of VAT, I will repeat, is the highest share of excise duties in the region, and one of the largest in Europe. There is no reason for these things, or for this percentage to be so high, because it directly harms citizens today and the economy. It's the pleasures of the coffee excise. These are small pleasures that ordinary citizens have every day. Their budget share is negligible and I am sure that there could really be room in this budget for the excise on gasoline and the excise on coffee to be reduced, so that citizens have more favourable prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33860	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Jovanovic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33861	Mr Popovic obviously didn't understand what we're talking about. He talks and explains that he protects citizens' interests by saying that oil in Serbia is expensive because of excise duties. It's expensive because of the monopoly, Mr Popovic, because we can't buy anywhere else, and it's here in Serbia, and it's from the Russians who are now charging, among other things, the chaos you left at NIS, and you didn't report it. That's why it's expensive oil. Our budget is a mess not because we spend more, but because nothing can be created here anymore, it can't be created, because we don't have a market economy, we can't win the market economy while politics here has a crucial impact on every job. You've established these rules. What we're thinking about is the ruling coalition, we've been talking here for days, I don't know if our colleagues from the PUPS are here, but there's, say, Mr. Mrkonjic, and Saturday we talked to them about it. Right? Your SPS-PUPS-JS coalition, then railways, then pensions. You stand for the interests of the citizens by protesting excise duties here, and we stand by by not allowing you to deceive the citizens, but to insist on taking responsibility for what you've done. There's exactly a high fuel price here because monopolies were built, and the state that allowed these monopolies can't control that price now, and on the other hand, it has obligations to its society. I'm sorry that we sold NIS, as sold all over the world, for example, as sold in Russia, then there might be more money in the budget from those sources, so we'd be less dragged into people's pockets, but since that pocket is empty, I don't think the budget will be filled with those excises, because people are simply going to drive less cars or they're going to switch cars to electricity, like I did.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33862	The word is Mr. Ostojić Zoran.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33863	Mr. Novakovic, with dignity, I will not mention Mr. Popovic in order not to give him a chance to replicate, but you know what, Mr. Novakovic, 104...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33864	To advise you, you'd better answer the word and get out of the way of article 104. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33865	I'm distracting you right now. I can connect him to article 27. The hypocrisy may be, I say, the favorite discipline in Serbia, but hypocrisy must have some limit. Once you cross the border, it's already a violation of dignity. So, to say as an MP for a party that has ruled this country for four years that they shouldn't be excises on coffee and that there are a lot of big excises on fuel, not telling the citizens, I'm saying this because of the citizens, that while you were in power, you weren't reducing excises, you were increasing them. As much as my memory serves, at least three or four times, the government of Vojislav Kostunica has increased excise duties. Now that we're in opposition, let's cut the excises. That's what I call hypocrisy. On the other hand, the transfer of LDP to have a mild attitude towards this budget is indeed also an insult to dignity and to the Assembly and citizens, because no one has criticised this budget, Mrs Dragutinovic, like us. He's not developmental, he's not stabilising. The president of your government, Boris Tadic, said it was social, and we can agree there, which means that pensions are a social category, and that's where we agree. Therefore, there can be no opposition, but when we need to disrupt Serbia's interests and protect the interests of another state, then vote for something proposed by the government, which is, say, a gift from NIS, then come here and say -- there are a lot of great excise duties, and you were in power and you weren't reducing them, and then say that Slovenia is struggling to conclude a contract. Everyone is fighting, and the LDP had nothing against the pipeline, but Slovenia does not give its oil industry to the Russians to make a deal. That's the point. It's a busy job. The nails and the sugar. It's always been ugly and corrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33866	The word will be received by Mr Nenad Popovic and by doing so, please, we end this circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33867	Replica, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and because of the mention of the previous government, chaired by Prime Minister Kostunica, I must say that the years in which the government was headed by Prime Minister Kostunica each year brought to Serbia between three and six billion dollars of foreign direct investment, that we had a growth of gross domestic products from four to seven, even eight percent annually, that this was the best years of the last twenty years in Serbia. I just want to say that today we have a critical situation regarding the economy in the country and I think it is much more constructive for everyone to really deal with what we have today, we are dealing with the problems of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and we are proud of that year when the prime minister was Kostunica, and especially these contracts that were signed at the time. The real results will be visible later, and I repeat again, I am extremely glad that for this agreement that you keep mentioning voted most of the MPs in this assembly. Also, I mean, just to add, time will show that for the next five to seven years on the world's oil market, we'll have about three to four, maybe five companies, and they'll all be oil producers. The number of companies will be reduced, or the large Western companies will have to enter direct production in some countries. We see this example now in Hungary, we see this example in Austria, where leading Russian companies have already entered the capital of the leading Hungarian and Austrian, and indirectly through them and into the capital of the Zagreb INE. So Serbia's energy path provides long-term energy security and economic security for citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33868	Apparently, the MPs disobeyed me, and the word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. I guess it's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33869	I'm really sorry, I'm going to try to keep it on this, not to deepen this discussion anymore, but this isn't a competition -- knowledge champions, team champions, so now we're spreading our personal pride here. If we're talking about economic policy, we can't live from today until tomorrow, so let's not talk about yesterday, but here we are before 2010, we're just born, so let's see how we get into it. If these are foreign investments, they were much more the result of the overall climate in which they lived than in the activities of the previous two governments. We strongly criticise this existing one, but whenever Kostunica did this job, we went bad. We paid Telekom Republika Srpska 200 million more than the second offer. Now you mention Austria, Slovenia, Ina, so no country in the world has made the contract that we have made, neither. What country allowed the majority ownership of the Russian side? None. This is not a debate on Russia's position, but on what Serbia is doing. So we can't discuss the 2010 budget without ignoring the fact that no pensions have been reformed, that no institutional life has been developed in such a way that law enforcement is guaranteed here, that justice is not reformed, that we don't have a complete transition here, but we're halfway through. You yourself were the government in this country from 2004 to 2008, until half of 2008. You want me to tell you what the 2008 final account looks like? Half that year you were the government. How did you manage public finances? By July 2007, we didn't have a budget. We haven't had a budget in eight months. What you call foreign investments, there was at least a greenfield investment. At least the foreigners came and invested money in this country. You were selling out property. You sold Mobtel for a billion and a half, it ended up in villages, you spent 700 million in Republika Srpska. You didn't make that Ilic highway, you signed a concession with the Alpine on the damage of this country. Come on, one project that's been done so that we can say today, well done. In 1996, the Socialists concluded an agreement with the Russian Federation, 50-50, no element of the agreement was respected by the Russian side. That was a warning. This is not an opportunity to discuss Russia, this is the topic of talking here today from our ability to learn something about our mistakes and our willingness to change. Change and be partners, and no one has the right to shut us out of it, but now come out here and tell people – you know what, you really get the oil expensive because of some Diana Dragutinović and Mirko Cvetkovic. Mirko Cvetkovic and I will talk about information, and we can talk about his ownership rights to the author agency, but to bring this debate down to such a low level, it is unacceptable for us. Fuel in this country is expensive because the Russian side is allowed absolute monopoly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33870	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33871	Mr. Novakovic, I'll try to be too precise, but I won't be able to finish those scheduled two minutes, so count the rest of the time on the expense of the parliamentary group. I think that it will be useful for the sake of both the SRS MPs and the public, because we want to start to clear up some things so that no further discussion of the amendments creates some confusion. First of all, the fact of the matter. I have to remind the public that a kind of monopoly of the oil industry has been confirmed, I can't say that it was created, but that it was confirmed in the first half of 2001 by one regulation, when those who criticized us came, Mr. Mrkonjic, that we ruled the regulations, and they started to rule. You probably remember because I wrote a joint proposal to assess the constitutionality of that regulation on oil production and transport. I'm very glad to see you, Mr. Novakovic, and you're my witness, that since 2001 only the SRS has persistently submitted amendments and disputed all of the laws concerning taxes, excises, so I'm extremely glad when someone who was once in power today says that the excise is too big, and we talked about it, but nobody wanted to listen to us. Of course, someone can draw a conclusion -- it's easy for you, you've always been an opposition since 2001, against everything you've been, etc., but, you see, it's happened that those who objected to us at the time, who have disputed those political views, now simply, perhaps unconsciously, come to our very positions. Now I'd like to inform the public what the SRS thinks about this draft budget law. I agree, Mr. Novakovic, that this amendment of mine is a little bit off, but it won't be burning to hear something like an introduction. The citizens would have to understand one thing, if the host said - as much as there is, he could spend as much. If he wanted to spend a little more than he had, he'd have to be in charge, and when he's in charge, you know, then they don't have a soul, and they're bankers, and because they've given some paper that's probably made money, by interest, and by other means, they're pulling out their souls, and that's why the host avoids credit. But when a state, as an institution, as an association of citizens in some space, in order to organise a normal life in its territory, must have its own organs and when it is necessary for every citizen to take a proportionate contribution to finance these bodies, first of all those services, people who need to work on applicable regulations, then the state has to take care. How can he take care of himself? He can't take much. That's why he has to dimensional his administration, to cut that part of the budget, as a classic cost. However, if the state has prescribed compulsory pension and disability insurance, Mrs Dragutinovic, so the law also ordered employers to pay on the burden of operating costs and on the burden of personal income compulsory contributions, then it is obliged to provide funds in the budget, in order to recover all lack of funds, in order to meet pension and disability insurance obligations neatly, according to individual solutions received by each beneficiary of the right. There already, Mrs Dragutinović, you can see what the limit is prescribed for you by the Constitution and by law, when I tell you, I don't mean personally to you, but to the full authority, that when you talk to these from abroad, you first say - please, these are obligations, these are the country's prohibitions. There are other commitments that are also covered by the budget, complete social protection, classical social security, material security, and then wider, social care for children, and special aspects of combat and disability protection, and special aspects of material compensation for disabled children, etc. There's no pardon here. There's nothing to talk about. There is a law, a material regulation, the right of a citizen in monetary form, and it is known how much is on the monthly level, it is known on 12 months, if it is harmonised during the year, it is known that everything and there is no bidding, there is a cruel law applied. Now let's get into some subject that you've all been misusing for a few days, and whether the budget is social, and whether it's developmental, and whether it's destructive. The budget is defined, the material basis, the representation of everything the state needs to fulfill and what has its financial expression. It's much more social the moment the economy doesn't work, and when tycoons and these called employers, which they don't even know how to fill, fire workers, then the state has to take care of those workers who are fired. But the state has a mechanism throughout the set of labour protection rules and working relationships, how to protect the right of workers and ensure as much employment as possible, because then the social contributions from the budget are reduced. As you set out, it is possible in a few months that this table in the National Assembly will grow into a folk kitchen. Laugh, but it's simply a mania one. Now the main social policy leads our television, collect potatoes, collect this, people show their humanity, but the state doesn't show it, and the state is obliged to show, not humanity, but to fulfill the legal obligation. What's going on in the budget, what's going on in the way you're talking about development? In any case, everything that represents infrastructure comes first. You know, since 2001, this government has been acting diabolically. Mrs Dragutinovic, we have a set of regulations on the agenda, where the state is in debt and the state assumes an obligation to reduce its participation in banks from 18% to 10%. Yesterday you saw on TV that there was a Hypo Alpe Adria bank, it's 100% owned by the Austrian state. Would you like to drive them out? How can they operate with 100% foreign ownership? There's 51%, I'll stay. There's a difference between 100% and 51%, it's looking at 49%. You know, what arches are in force in the EU? So, the EU allows the Austrian state to buy its bank's 100% share and this same EU asks Mrs Dragutinovic or Jelasic to reduce it from 18% of the state's shares and capital in banks to 10%, and in the future that all of this disappears, that the state has no interference in banks? Since there's payment traffic in banks, all the financials in the banks are complete. I'm not very happy to hear now that there's some rivalry and some sort of argument between the government and the governor of the National Bank, the Chamber of Commerce and the National Bank, about the course, etc. I don't want to go into that duel at all, nor to calm you down, but we've been talking about something that's been going on for years, all because of those words that you're talking about right now. You criticized us. How can we trust you? Where's that line? Let me remind you, last year, in December, in that building, I also filed an amendment asking for these material costs to be reduced. Do you know what you wrote me in response to the amendment? Overruled. Why? If the amendment were to be adopted, the basic functions could not be executed in some division there, with regard to the collection of material goods and the payment of services, and they are necessary for the functioning of the state body, and I am counting on them to be wrong. Then I write an amendment to that division where the National Assembly is, to cut the daily, travel expenses, so I go out for a pay phone to explain why it takes so many and so many millions to cut, to split almost. The president of the Slavica Djukic National Assembly was behind me, so please - don't, it's already reduced, it can't be less, it endangers the functioning of the National Assembly. It hasn't been three months, you went into rebalancing. You have adopted both items, cut the travel costs and the daily logbooks for the National Assembly and at that department of service costs, etc. Isn't that right, Mr. Odalovich? Remember? Now we're telling you something, you won't hear it again. I'm just setting up a day for you to admit it yourself. I don't suffer from the fact that you're late to admit it, but it's the citizens who suffer. Why? Well, politics has the goal of solving poverty and ensuring peace. You know what the priority is. With this amendment, it is a member of the 1st summary showing by kind of expenditure with 40 and a few billion, I asked it to be reduced by 20 billion. Legally, it may not be a good amendment, I agree with you, but the signal was what you needed to do. Why? The audit institution is almost at every ministry where it was in control, and only 27% of it was controlled, almost everyone found it in that economic classification -- supplying goods and services, and instructed it to be something that was either non-intentional or not good, there is and where it's not registered, I have to say, but quite unintentional. There's another part of the budget where some programs reportedly appear. You know, your mouth is full of decentralisation, deetatization, regionalization, etc. In nine years, the Ministry of Health has received so many new responsibilities from the Health Insurance Institute, which is inconceivable, and some ministries, above all, think of the ministry, Mr. Mrkonjic, where traffic and connections have emerged, some regulatory bodies and the ministry have weakened with that function. How many positions do you have in that analytical and other study? For the purposes of the ministry, institutes work. Then the question arises – do we need these ministry employees, if these jobs are to be done by institutes? You've seen that auditor's report, how many positions you have, and in this institute, and for this project, and for that project. For some things there may be an understanding, but for some there is no understanding at all. Mrs Dragutinovic, just to remind you, a programme loan for the development of the private and financial sector was adopted on 29 May this year. I don't want to talk, you all know what the previous conditions were that had to be fulfilled in order to withdraw some money. One of those conditions was the sale of DDOR. When you sold the DDOR, you met the conditions and you could take the May loan, now I'm going to tell you, 35 million euros. It was also said what the purpose of the loan was. Now at the agenda session we have a second loan, a programming loan for development, here, I'll take this, public finances, because that has a lot to do with it. What did you have to fulfill as a condition? The laws you had to pass, you know. So, what's it gonna be used for? Just for the administration. How much – 70 billion and 100 million euros. I'll take a second programme loan for the development of the private and financial sector, it's also on the agenda now. What did you do to get that loan? Take a look at the draft law amending and supplementing the bankruptcy law. Serbia has completed the sale of social enterprise shares and from the privatisation register. Furthermore, the adoption of the proposal for a law on competition protection began the diagnostic assessment process of the banking sector, the adopted liquidity framework for the banking sector. The time limit for the merger of the bank in majority ownership shall be submitted to the National Assembly for the adoption of a draft law on compulsory insurance in traffic. What are you taking? A large amount of euro under less or more favourable conditions, in order to form a financial infrastructure that would guarantee the application of the law on the budgetary system. The auditor's report is a condition for this to be obtained, to 27% controlled, disaster found. How do you take so many millions? They don't go into roads, they don't go to social services, they go to the administration. They go to scientific projects, allegedly, copying projects for training, hiring new people, and at the same time, action is being taken to fire the republican and local administrations. What is planned as a debt for the 2009 budget is referred to in Article 3, it only rises in December 2009, imagine. The realisation will go only later, but it goes with a new one, plans for new responsibilities in 2010. Where's the economy? Where is this social policy postulate, if a man works and isn't a social case? We have it -- when a man works, he becomes a social case. Where is the country's strategic agreement, employers, trade unions, at least one thing, agreement on the lowest labour price and that it commits both to the state, employers and trade unions, not to make improvisations, that everyone is responsible if he does not respect it, so that monetary and all other policies can be planned? No, there's a simple mania here -- let's put ourselves in charge, make logistics and infrastructure of the state administration that corresponds to the logistics of the infrastructure in Brussels, and they, Mrs Dragutinovic, are in Brussels preparing employees for a few days to strike. Where are you taking us? How do you win that? You've been sowing up these beautiful expectations for years, but you see the inevitable undertone of the line, and then you start talking like radicals. I'm just amazed to hear from you at times with your grades. It would have hurt less for the citizens of Serbia if you had accepted everything you were saying, if you had accepted it three, four, five or seven years ago, but then you couldn't hear it. Even now, some citizens don't hear what we're saying. They want to believe it'll get better. And I want to believe it'll get better. That's why I do politics. If we don't start looking "in and into our pecks", let's see our potentials, how to run our potentials, our resources, our reserves, our denials, but to know the system of values, to know the goal. Here is the goal of how to get the money from abroad, how to get in debt and then the story begins – eurybor, libor, percentage, grace period for so many years, for so many years etc. You don't eat that. I apologize for spending a little bit more time, but I hope I've made a good basis for these young MPs we want to promote, as SRS's ideologies continue, not to return to what we warned on time, as Vojislav Seselj did back in the '90s on time to warn what would happen, so you just saw it happening. I hope that in the follow-up debates in these sections, according to economic classifications, they will prove not only the justification of these amendments, but also our concern for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the fate of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33872	Since the time of the parliamentary group, 17 minutes and 15 seconds have been used. The word is Mr. Zoran Ostojić. In my name and last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33873	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. I have a replica of Mr. Krasic, whom I listened carefully and mentioned my name. You see, Mr Krasic, let me make a small contribution to what you're trying to give, that Hipo Alpe Adria is in trouble and she took the state because she's in trouble. It's a good thing the Austrian state took control because, after all, it has assets and a company here. It's just temporary. I know you as a newly-roasted liberal remember that time with Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic. There was competition, and that's why I came forward, because you mentioned the government of Zoran Djindjic and the oil regulation you blamed as a condition, or the reason for the monopoly. Perhaps in your time and Mrkonjic's time there was competition between Arkan, Marko Milosevic, or so oil was done, it is not disputed. It's just, what's the problem? She came up with six pints and sold only in bottles. In fact, the regulation lowers the price of gasoline below the brand, starts to fill the budget, not the pockets of those who were so competitive in the '90s and with excise duties on cigarettes. At that time, Djindjic's government filled and settled the two markets and filled the budget, with 30% of the budget filling through these goods. Let me remind you, then the tobacco industry Nis is privatized for, if memory doesn't cheat, 600m euros. You, unfortunately, participated in this privatisation by direct contract when NIS was sold to the Russians for 400m euros. So it was then that the monopoly of the state was introduced to get out of hand, let's say, the mafia that was under state control, but it was not the intention of that monopoly state to surrender to another state, but unfortunately it happened thanks to the votes of your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33874	Mr. Krasic has the word. Please try again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33875	It's okay now. Mr. Novakovic, I know that you usually, not usually, but as a rule, understand what I'm saying. Did you notice that Zoran Ostojic, Mr Ostojic, in the list, since Serbia has forgotten to mention the nickname of Chume, Peconi, you did not notice, Feed, etc. You see that selectivity in choice. Did you notice that kind of selectivity that he's carrying out? Someone can pathologically hate Russians, Russian capital, etc. And that's a political attitude. I don't have a problem with that. All I have to do is draw attention in 2001, then he was the Energy Minister of Novakovic. He, like Bozidar Djelic, came with two bags. He was then. That's when that monopoly was established. I wrote a proposal to the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality and legality of that regulation. That's the period when the sanctions were lifted, just to remind ourselves. Democracy came, friends, 6.5 billion at the border, etc. That's when that monopoly was established. Let me just tell you one thing, and when I wrote that proposal for a constitutionality assessment, I wrote it because they called for Article 2(2). The government law, and this member says - the government is laying down regulations. They lacked material regulation to regulate the production and transport of oil and oil derivatives. I know exactly what natural and state monopoly means. That's why no one attacked them at the time, but to distract them. Otherwise, while some are already talking about the processing price of oil and proportionality, for years this proportion has stood. Another thing, oil imported by some importers, is processed into NIS. It's not so monopoly or closed, but it's another question. Let's just get some facts straight. We have an understanding for the state and we know what the problems are, but what's leading us is exactly what represents the interest of this country and of the citizens who live in this country. By the way, Mr. Ostojic, there's only one thing you said rightly is that original radicalism comes from a liberal-democratic political view of the world, and that's what we're proud of.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33876	Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33877	Mr. Krasic, I apologize for not mentioning all those names. I'm sure you know those names better. I was a good part of the '90s away from the country, in emigration, so I couldn't remember all those market players at the time of yours and Mrkonjic's. I'm glad you mention you've become a liberal. I hope you'll show that, as I say, your MP group and party in action. I'm just saying that this monopoly that you're talking about, and when you mention that time, it's not right to say that it's a monopoly that, I don't know, destroyed the country, because it was just sort of a market fixation, and simply, then the fact state had to be taken out of the mob's hands to create conditions for some fair privatisation. Unfortunately, we have not come to a fair privatisation, and that is what I have told you as a grudge, because you, as MPs of the opposition, have participated in it. In the end, Mr. Krasic, when you mentioned that it was a time when the sanctions were lifted, I didn't just understand, did you mention it so sad or joyfully? After all, these days there are often talk of the merits of the SPS for visa waiver, which is not controversial, because if it hadn't been for the SPS, there wouldn't have been any visas. I can tell you that there were no SRS probably no sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33878	I don't see where this ends. Let's hear more of Mr. Krasic. Maybe he'll open it for me. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33879	I'd just like to draw attention, Mr. Novakovic, Mrs. Dragutinovic, if I could just, sorry to interrupt, next time I won't call you when you need to talk. Mr. Novakovic, let me remind you of one thing. You see, sanctions were imposed in May 1992, Mr. Novakovic, sanctions were imposed against the Republic of Serbia in May 1992. Just to remind you that you must know that someone else was then in power in the coalition with the SPS, Mr Ostojić, and these are some of your former party comrades, Perisic, Panic, Djukic, Labus, not to tell you any further, but well, that's one thing. Another thing, Mr. Ostojic, to understand, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have seen that big difference. However, in 2001, there was a fundamental change. The mob finally got its government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33880	Mr. Free Maras has the word. Excuse me, Mr. Ostović, are you advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Free Marash, from the scene: advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33881	Are you listening to what is being discussed in this congregation? Why are you not listening to what is being said in this congregation? Did you hear what Mr. Krasic said? You have to warn him. He said that in 2001, the mob finally got its state, the government, even worse. Mr. Novakovic, you have violated the Rules of Procedure for allowing, or you have not responded to this and spoken here, instead of listening to what the MPs say. This is an insult, and it is a great one, for the citizens of Serbia, for most of the MPs in this House. I really did not intend to compromise with representatives of the SRS, or MPs, although I fully agree with what Mr Ostojić said, that in 2001, a point was put on what was happening in the 1990s and when it came to oil trade, that is, all of those huge incomes and criminal activities that were behind it. In order not to turn this into a debate between the two parties that do not support the budget, I must tell Mrs Dragutinovic that today the NIS Assembly, whose colleague, Minister Skundric, adopted a report by the auditory house, has done business with eight billion losses in 2008, and the report that in the third quarter of 2009, NIS was operating with three billion profits. Who's responsible for the 2008 losses at NIS? I really don't need to talk about anything else anymore. You don't let us talk about the 2008 final account. He can't get a DRI report here. Today, by accepting the report, NIS admitted that someone committed crime and damaged the state by 100m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33882	Two minutes. Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33883	Telling her that after the October 5th mob got the government is really embarrassing. Because of the citizens, I would remind you when the president of the SRS was elected, which I don't want to talk about because it's bad, because he's in prison, in custody, when he was elected to parliament in 1992. Then, from 1992 to 2000, the mob had its own state, and after 2000, the mob got the government that came in, so the president of that government died and I warn or remind the gentleman, brothers and sisters, the Serbian Radicals, that the mention of the government of Zoran Djindjic in this context has the implication that he has a family, and when you talk about the torture and suffering of your leader in The Hague, in Hague custody, we know that he has a family and that's why we make sure we don't say anything ugly. Please, don't put the late prime minister's political views on the table, and always keep in mind, before you spit on Zoran Djindjic, the fate of Vojislav Seselj, because in the 1990s, the mob had a state and that criminal state shows the list of residents of that institution in The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33884	I ask all Members of the Parliament to illustrate this discussion, the way of expression, and we have in mind always and at every moment a point or topic discussed at the moment. It seems to me that we have strayed a little bit, and the Assembly will certainly declare in the voting day whether I have hurt the Rules of Procedure, according to the announcement of MP Slobodan Maraš. Thank you. This concludes this circle of replicas. No one has the right to a replica anymore, not to discuss the amendment. The word was answered by Mr.... You've got a Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Verice, don't throw it away. I'm warning you for the first time, don't throw it away. Don't wave at me, I'm not psychic to know what that means. So, if you want to talk about the Rules of Procedure, raise this beautiful blue book, and everyone will be clear. You have your word, Mr. Crassy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33885	Mr. Novakovic, it's not tossing. It's to point. I signed up, and you're ignoring it. That was not the reason we warned you that there was a need for Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Now let me explain to you what this is all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33886	I have to stop you. Article 104 was the subject of Mr. Marash's advertising. A decision has just been made that the Assembly will declare it in the voting day. We're done here. The word is Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33887	Dear Mr President, the Honorable Minister of Finance, the honourable MPs, I am very sorry that in the principle debate on the budget, I was not present, I could not because of the obligation to be in the hall that Saturday, when it was discussed, when it was suddenly scheduled, and now I would like through these amendments that you do not accept, and we believe that part of the amendment should be supported, in order for a very bad budget to be corrected, as far as possible, to look back on the budget itself and on the whole situation and on our amendments relating to the budget itself. I expected this year's budget to be as developmental, stimulating for employment, for the development of the economy. But when you look at it, you analyze it, the budget is an extremely social budget, to survive, there's no development, there's nothing. All that was to be found in development, employment, new jobs, is located in the Ministry of Economy, the wave of the severance subsidy, etc. It's something that has no development. For years we have been talking about the EU, and now the government is constantly talking about whether to run, when to apply for EU membership, and I thought that through the budget itself, through the following year, we can see through the budget whether we are ready for the EU or not, and through the budget itself, we could prepare to join the EU. Now, what do you think of a budget like this that has 60s and a few thousand companies before bankruptcy, a thousand companies before liquidation, hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs? There's no stimulating employment, there's no very harmful investment in this country, there's no major credit spending, these are ski resorts, so I don't list projects that have been missed. That's how Greece worked, and here's the situation. She wanted Greece to make the Olympics and re-negotiate the country. It's very difficult for me, Madam Minister, to explain how we're not over-indebted. We may not be like the state in that debt crisis, but when you add up what the state owes, what the private people owe, how much interest are to private entities a year, when you add up how much debt the citizens owe to each other to the firm, then the situation is extremely catastrophic. Through unilateral respect for the agreement with the EU, we have completely destroyed Serbia's economy, and in particular destroyed agriculture, and it is now seen and we see it. We cannot be as sure as we are in the EU with the budget announced for the following year. We can run, we can apply, but how do we run for the EU if we have a degree of infrastructure construction unsatisfactory by EU criteria, if we have a degree of employment of a working-age population totally unsatisfactory, if the fight against corruption has not produced any results, if the people who are extremely corrupt are now part of the ruling coalition? We cannot say that in the ruling coalition they are not Gilas with their private company, Shaper, Krstic. We can't say Djelic didn't buy the Sokobanja Hotel when he owned that hotel through his Dutch firm. I've put that on the government multiple times. Djelic constantly attacks, you give this Ilic, find something, and I ask him again - Djelic, did you buy a hotel with Badžina's brother in Sokobanja through a Dutch firm? That's 100% true. Did Novakovic, a former energy minister, buy and have companies from the Netherlands running around Serbia, run major investments? Did he compete to build the Kargo Center at Nicole Tesla Airport? Yes, it's 100% true. Therefore, we cannot discuss the fight against corruption if these people milk what our people say, public enterprises and ministries and spend the funds they should enter the budget. How much money did they get out of RTS, how much from Telecom, how much from the Clinical Center? Let's take a look at the contracts. It's 100% true. How much from the Ministry of Health? Who's leading, who's selling minutes and seconds and minutes for these action "Fighting breast cancer", "Fighting breast cancer", "Let's Clean Serbia" etc.? It's all done. Who now intensively makes businesses for these climate conditions that are extremely bad? Who makes companies to protect the weather disorders of Serbia, etc.? Our tycoons are already working on it. As soon as you see people like Miskovic or some that I've listed in combination, here, as soon as I've seen vaccines and seen that Miskovic is, I said -- people, that's upside down. Where won't all the men get here? It will soon enter this parliament, who knows how many MPs it has, etc., as it operates, to tolerate it so much, that Serbia cannot carry out any tender without it. He also wanted an airline, so he destroyed JAT when he started making, creating, because he'd been taking and working with them for a couple of years, so we barely put a ramp there. He's gone into every area, from the travel industry, the agrarians, everything. He's been in everywhere. He destroyed the milk manufacturer, destroyed the store. He took the monopoly at the store. Imagine, milk with 34 dinars when I was a minister fell to 15 dinars in ransom, and the retail price is the same. How is that possible? Therefore, we cannot do this in the EU and all this budget you have offered is tolerate, allow and repeat the same story. When you turn down 40 billion -- the salaries of budget users, that's what the development of the state and these eight billion in the NIP is. Who took it? They took Dinkic and Kalanovic. The government gives 48 billion G17 plus to dispose of these resources. These are operational money for development, for infrastructure, for construction, for incentives for employment, etc. Why aren't they in the resolution ministries? Why is the Ministry Act being violated? How do you allow roads to work whoever comes to mind in Serbia? How can you? It is known by the Law on Roads that predicts construction, supervision and maintenance and no one can build and work anymore. Not to talk about other business. Why don't the items break down and define into the resolution ministries where they follow. Let's see what belongs to the health care budget and for what purposes. How are the funds allocated to the budget being spent and being poured out? You don't have any control mechanism. Tomorrow, another hospital will burn down, which is a new, completely changed installation, etc. That's impossible. I haven't seen the report yet on who set the hospital on fire. How is it possible that if you burn 10 bulbs in the hospital, all done new, to burn at 11 o'clock in the evening? Is that even possible? What kind of funds were invested there? I ask that the funds come into the right hands, to improve the status of economic operators, to begin to realistically fill the budget. It will actually be charged if more people are hired, if more gets paid, if there are more stable businesses and what I told you before, it is impossible to define everything in one plane for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. That's a broad term. We want to see items, which enterprises, in which municipalities, in which cities. Why is it allowed to destroy the village completely? Why is it allowed to destroy meat producers? Milk producers to completely destroy themselves? Why is it allowed to be a bag of artificial fertilizer, I repeat for the fifth time, three acres of the best forest land? Is that an incentive from this agricultural development budget for the development of the village? I'm sure he didn't. There's got to be something changing. I expected in this budget to see something concrete, not just severances. What do we get if we retire people? We'll get bigger problems in the pension fund. There's no way to fill the pension fund and then we're gonna have to have these problems we have today. Today hundreds of people appear in the congregation, cut off their electricity, pensioners who have eight, nine, ten thousand dinars. We also warned that pensions are not raised as they were done, but to raise the lowest pensions first, and that these lowest pensions are agreed, that people can survive, that they can pay basic taxes, which are electricity, water, sewerage and those taxes they have to pay. This is a surviving budget for many, and for many, there is no way they can survive. As we talk about the EU and the planned funds, we listened to a minister say that he feeds 700,000 people in Serbia? We expect to join the EU if every ten Serbian citizens go to prison to feed? Is that the way to the EU? Ask Mirko Cvetkovic. I don't see him. He must never come here to discuss these matters with us. This is not the way to the EU. It's not the way the EU wants us. How can they, if every tenth lives on the river floor and we say they can't wait to see us? We're getting someone in Brussels, so he's holding a press conference and they say we can only stand it when we evaluate, and the president says last night -- when we evaluate. Gentlemen, have you assessed? The situation in Serbia is extremely bad. We have been away from the EU for the last two years than we were two years ago. That's why, through these amendments we're making, we're trying to fix this law. You don't accept any. Why not transfer two billion to Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic from the NIP if this is scheduled for Belgrade's highway - Cačak? Why don't you put them there, they're at Kalanovic's? I don't trust Kalanovic. Why don't you transfer four billion to infrastructure if you're well-intentioned to build a highway on Corridor 10? Switch over there. Is that why they're supposed to? Why are you holding them in some NIP position, so tomorrow we'll say again as in previous years -- eating a cat? It's sad to see what's going on these days. Now there's an election in the Ojacs. Last night, a great statesman, what do we call him, Mr. Pajtic, shared some large houses in the Odjak municipality, because there are elections. He bought it and divided it into peasants. How is he not ashamed to share the house with the estate for the 3,000 euros he bought? Gentlemen, that says the village in Vojvodina has failed. If a household that has been created for hundreds of years in Vojvodina is worth three thousand euros, what does it say? That Vojvodina had failed, and the village, and all in a row, and Pajtic had failed and belled him if he had bought the entire household with the house and assigned it to a refugee for 3,000 euros. Do you know how many generations have invested in this and the family that raised their hands and said -- here's everything for three thousand euros. That's proof of the state of the village, and how does the budget stimulate it? Not at all. You didn't accept any of our amendments, which tried to get this in order, so I'm asking you to try something through these amendments, so we don't sit here for nothing to talk about. We know we're talking to you - deaf whispers and blind winking is not worth it. We do it all the time, and you keep waiting for the day to vote, and then you'll vote. The budget will pass. These items will stay the way you predicted them and everything will be the same. Nothing more important is going to happen, and that is why I say that life is difficult in Serbia. It's hard to live. It's harder than ever. I repeat, 50,000 families have been warned of power outages in this cold. Among them are many old and sick. Pensions can't buy drugs only, so ask Krkobic how he cares about pensioners. So how are you going to get these two governments, the duchy and this Serbian out of the budget? Do you know that the biggest failure was the Capital Fund of Vojvodina? (President: Time. He spent all his money and didn't do anything. They took the money for a bridge on the Racha, they didn't finish and they wouldn't let go. They took the money for the Panchew bridge. They didn't finish and they didn't let go. They took a lot of... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33888	The word is by MP Nenad Popovic. Otherwise, she heard members of the government, and a sense of taste, and vision and smell were preserved entirely, and so are we here in the presidency, Mr. Ilic. Mr. Nenad Popovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33889	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that after hearing discussions that have been held on the budget, it is now clear that it would be fairest to withdraw the budget from the procedure. I'll remind you one more time, what I was saying the other day that Prime Minister Cvetkovic called this budget a developmental one. This budget is only developed for the state administration, as it contributes to the cultivation of offices, commissions and agencies of the government. For the economy and ordinary citizens, this budget is devastating. Madam Minister, you said in your opening address that the role of the state is, above all, social. Unfortunately, though I highly appreciate you, I can't agree with you at all. Of course social security is important, it may be the most important, but it should be the result of the conditions in which the economy works, the employment, the result of pension levels in the country, not social benefits. The role of the government is to ensure both the conditions and the environment for people to work and to live decently from their profits, not to receive social assistance. Serbia will not forever be a country of social affairs. This is the government's budget, and that's why it has to be seen wider, wider than the social aspect alone. The budget should be the basis for Serbia's development, and this budget certainly is not. This budget is devastating, because it has an increase in deficits from 70 to 107 billion dinars. An increase in civil servants' wages to 63% of the budget. The cost of 35 billion dinar interest, an allocation to Fiat of 150m euros, a return of 292 billion dinars. No wonder, then, that there are no new jobs in the budget, there is no basis for increasing exports and there is no significant infrastructure investment. Instead, the state of public enterprises' budget provides for the separation, instead we have been granted an exemption for state-of-the-art social enterprises, and I apologize to private companies. I think it's much more important to finish the privatisation we don't finish. In this term, the government's mandate, Mr Cvetkovic, the entire concept of private-owned market economy, has been questioned. It's invested in business when you're entrepreneurs with Fiat, you own private companies, you announce the investment of the state in Topionica Bor, you finance ski resorts. No country in the EU deals with such matters. The state has to let private investors do their job, not the state does entrepreneurship. Today, in Serbia's economy, nothing is more important than three goals, which is: the preservation of domestic economy, the preservation of jobs and the standards of citizens. I would just add to this social sphere that developed countries under the social needs allocations include investment in education, science and health. In this budget for these purposes, for education, science and health care, they remained exactly the same, they did not increase. If, in an American exposé presented by the President of America, the priority of encouraging research studies in technical sciences, Europe has also set the goal of increasing the number of technical science students by 2012 to 50%, and America and Europe, I will repeat, set the goal of increasing the number of technical science students by 50%. We have no indication in our budget that we follow their example. Today, unfortunately, the Technical Faculty in Serbia is studying fewer and fewer students. Why? Because industry doesn't work, because economy doesn't work. The fact that our engineers, excellent there are more in the world than in Serbia today, is also responsible for this government, which has led to the least work in Serbia today. Of course he's not here, because Serbia is made into a colony of cheap labour. We have 32,000 young people with college looking for jobs and businesses that unfortunately can't find engineers. We need to understand, and this budget, that engineers are Serbia's future. Prime Minister Cvetkovic's government is Europe's largest and one of the world's three largest. Three hundred ministers, state secretaries, assistants and advisors are in this government, 300. You had to be able to remove and merge unnecessary ministries and thus reduce the number of ministries by at least six to eight. Also, they said this budget reduces public spending. What a reduction in public spending when the 719 budget rose to 762 billion dinars. The budget deficit increased compared to last year by 400m euros, with only 60m euros in capital investments. There's a problem. They repeat that the interest, which will be paid from the budget this year, is close to 350m euros and that it has eaten many kilometers of highways. Of course, the big problem in the budget, and you saw that in this year, part of the budget deficit is covered by the short-term securities broadcasting. Now they're going to feel that budget with a big number of 292 billion dinars. These replacements can't really save the government from the real responsibility they owe on our behalf, now the banks, unfortunately, hold more money in securities than they lend to the economy. Why would they credit the economy if it's easier and safer for them to buy government bonds? On the basis, and I'm going to repeat that, and I want it to remain written, completely unrealistic expectations, time will show, the budget forecasts VAT growth in the country up to 30%. No public income has increased in Serbia at such a rate. You predicted a 27% growth in investment, a 1.5% GDP growth, I must say that America, which at the beginning of the crisis, also predicted 1.5% of GDP growth, and that Germany, which is certainly in a better situation than we are, predicted a lower growth than we are. She predicted 0.5%. I think private businesses should be engaged in private companies, and the state should not invest in those jobs where foreign investors should be attracted, private capital. This year's budget amounts to 10m euros for Serbia's ski resorts and 10m euros for the Stara Planina. With these 20m euros, it can be built, I don't know, there is Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic and Velja Ilic here, they will say, surely 20km of highway at Ibarska Masteral. It's more important to us than to invest in ski resorts that are everywhere in the world, property or private capital or local municipalities everywhere. 75% of cases across Europe and the world, mostly owned by private capital. The state is investing in ski resorts. I really don't think ski resorts are a priority in this economic situation today. I must add that Serbia is giving, I will repeat, for Fiat 150m euros as a founding role in the joint venture, although Fiat has not yet paid 200m euros to set up a joint venture, which he committed to a year and something. Also, with a new budget, Serbia is obliged to issue a guarantee of around 100m euros, so that Fiat cars Serbia will take credit for the purchase of equipment. Has anyone ever heard of the state issuing guarantees for a private loan to a foreign company? Third, there continues to be a twom-euro severance for salaries for monthly employees in the flag, although they are working on the production of Fiat's cars. The fourth, special attention, I will repeat, deserves twom euros from a consulting house to pay for project management services in this business. This is very rude. It's not enough that we're paying for all this, but we should pay two million euros to some board counselor. Again, Fiat is always welcome in Serbia as an investor. Of course, we would like some of these incentives to be given to "Fap", "Magnochrom", "The First Five-year-old", "Krusik", etc. As an opposition, we are trying to correct some of your mistakes, as far as we can, which is why the opposition has submitted more than 200 amendments, but I must say, once again, unfortunately, there are no new jobs behind this budget, no investment will be announced and it will not protect the Serbian economy. Therefore, this draft budget must be withdrawn from the procedure. Also, I think big changes are necessary, that this government, because of its coalition potential, has no potential to extend, to work in this way, and the state of Serbia needs new elections, and that is why I suggest you withdraw the budget proposal, resign and call the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33890	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33891	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use the time of Parliament's Group of ZES, but I will certainly look back on some of the discussions of the predecessors and what we heard in this room. To me, like most of my colleagues, when someone is talking about the budget and criticising the budget, it is quite understandable that opposition parties are criticising the budget, but, even though I am a national MP for three years, it is simply incomprehensible for me that someone constantly or continuously, whenever there is any debate on any topic, is taking the opportunity to say that Serbia in 2001 has received the mafia government. I knew the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. Like most people and citizens of Serbia, and like all my colleagues, I very much respect that Dr Zoran Djindjic did as Prime Minister, but of course I understand the fact that some people today in the Republic of Serbia, when the Supreme Court knows by whom the Legion, who killed Zoran Djindjic, ruled 40 years in prison, in anger and anger because justice finally took the sword and waved at criminals, that in anger and anger because criminals get 40 years in prison and will no longer have their leader to play chess with, while the Legion is 40 years in prison, I know that they must mention the mafia government of Zoran Djindjic and that they seek their anger on a dead man. This speaks more about these people who use such arguments in the budget debate than about Zoran Djindjic, because the vassus in Serbia was great people and big people are born, but with great people, small people are born, busy with their fears, lust, greed, and no one pays attention to such people. Such small men are always ready to push great men onto the altar. There's a big and beautiful picture in the ZES club's office. I don't know who the author is, but she's beautiful. If you want that picture to be seen, to see it and to enjoy its beauty, you need to move away from it a little bit. That's the way it is with human history. If you want to see the size of a man, you have to step away from him a little bit, show basic education and dignity, and then enjoy the size of that man. If you step too close and spit on that picture, that picture won't be any uglier than it is, but that spit will come back on you and fall on you, because spit on the stars is impossible. Now I want to tell you something about the debate I heard in this room and who I attended as a national MP, because for the second year we are adopting the budget of the Republic of Serbia and I am really fascinated by the appearance of people who see elections every day, and I am more fascinated by the appearance of people who are constantly whining like cowards. That's no good. Everything fell apart, everything dried up, everything took away the flood, everything took away by the winds, the winds. Let's not do anything, don't do anything, don't do anything, don't do anything, don't do anything, don't do anything, don't do anything, don't do anything, don't do anything, don't do anything, don't cut, don't cut, don't reap, don't reap, don't reap, don't reap. Leave the gentlemen to the coward as a party symbol, take Ceca's song "Cuckoo" as a party anthem, anyway she sings at party gatherings, so just whine, and let us who believe in the European future of this country, who we know is difficult, but that difficulties are overcome by work. Let us work and let the citizens of this Serbia live with the life of a decent man. Don't scare people. Last year you were talking about how banks failed, so the people rushed to the banks to raise their foreign currency deposits and then he hid the money in the straws, they made lines in front of the banks. What bank failed? None. Where are you now for claiming that the banks have failed? Nowhere. You've produced great economic damage with your moaning, but you're nowhere to be found. So don't just whine. If you care about whining, you complain about your gross in your house, but don't scare the citizens in front of the cameras, they know it's hard and they know it's a crisis and there's great unemployment. Give us some concrete solutions. What was your opposition mind when you were in power? Today, we barely pay back the debts that some here are the loudest to whine and fight in the breasts of the German. We barely pay back our debts here for a job without a tender. We're running international arbitration here and today for some of the disputes that occurred during the time of that government. I'm really going to say there are some very reasonable criticisms in the opposition. I heard a little before the LDP leader and Mr. Maras, who made some constructive proposals, but when you criticise, I understand such criticism and I support it, because it's a criticism where you offer a solution, so when you offer a solution, it's okay to criticise it, but when you criticise only critics for doing it, to court voters, it's not constructive criticism, it's demagogy, it's conjecturing voters. Because some of the loudest complainers had a position until yesterday to sit in government and show all the knowledge, all the luxury of their talent. Everything they could do, they had freed their hands to do and then it turns out they were actually just looking and walking around the moment they went into opposition. That's why it's effective for them to stay in the opposition as long as possible, because the opposition makes them come up with very good ideas, and that's why it's the most difficult for them to be in opposition for the first 20-30 years, and then they'll probably get used to it, and then they'll stop whining and start doing something. By then Serbia will be largely in the EU. Besides, as our people say, whoever drowns in Moravia doesn't need a bigger sea. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please, when you speak of the government of Zoran Djindjic that you are still speaking with great respect, about a man who has installed himself in this country, her freedom, her dignity, because that man when he became Prime Minister, we have returned this coat of arms, anthem, dignity and pride to this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33892	Mr. Zoran Krasic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33893	No, by amendment, ma'am, not replica, just the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33894	I just couldn't believe it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33895	You're astounded? Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, the current amendment that is on the agenda is very similar to my amendment that was previously submitted, but there is a difference in that monetary and nominal amount between these two amendments, but simply to make it clear to the public what it is, I think it is necessary to just remind ourselves of some facts. The first fact, probably a small number of MPs know about the fact, was adopted in December 2002 in the latest final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The session adopted the final budget account for 2000 and 2001. Since that December 2002, you know it's DOS time, democracy, human rights, not to tell you everything that sounds nice, and it doesn't mean anything, until today we haven't passed any final bill laws. However, we have a draft law on the 2007 final account and we have one draft law on the 2008 final account and we have an auditor's report and we have another draft law on the 2008 final account. So, if the law on the final account for one business year is the point of "and" or the crown of something done in the financial year, then you can see for yourself that, from 1 January 2002 to today, we do not have any final accounts. So we don't have a point for any financial year. Is that possible on a globe in a country? Let me tell you right now, it's not. It's a drying-out fact. Just to remind you, gentlemen, in 2001, the methodology for calculating GDP in the Republic of Serbia was changed. Of course, in line with international standards, although there were no major problems, but there had to be some change, to make discontinuity. There's been a lot going on with us this time of year. These are all facts. So what I'm saying is that I don't like to be able to get under the grade -- I don't like it, I'm glad -- I'm not happy. It's just, it's facts. Let me tell you a little secret. When the SRS parliamentary group submitted amendments to the 2010 draft budget law, we managed, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, only by a report by an auditor who checked 27% of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget. I'm telling you this in advance because you can give whatever qualifications you want on our amendments, but don't forget, they're all based on the review report, everyone. Let me remind you, and that 27%, although the auditors did not give an opinion on the budget, on the final account, which is a major failure, that report, this umbrella, ultimately, cannot be changed, nothing can be handled, because the procedure until this report is reached, also contains possible objections, conversations, clearing some items, etc. When denying our amendments, you make sure that you deny the report of the auditors, which is inconclusive, so when you talk about the former authorities, future authorities, etc. And with good expectations, I know everyone wants nice citizens, but somehow the works don't show it. I only took a few examples: the Final Account Act, the way in which the gross social product is calculated and the auditor's report. I have to tell you, these are government documents. By contesting these amendments, you challenge yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33896	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33897	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I won't even talk about selling sugar for three euros, I won't even talk about selling US Steel for 27 million dollars, I won't talk about hypocrisy. I want to talk about what an opposition MP should talk about when there's a budget in front of him. So when a man sees this document that you call - the development budget, which the Serbian government has signed, which says to himself that the government is socially responsible, he simply wonders - how in one such document, which so systematically destroys the lives of Serbian citizens, the institutions of Serbia and all of Serbia, you find anything developmental and you find something that is socially responsible? I must remind you, the amendment of our parliamentary group is precisely about this social responsibility - is it that you took and reduced all birthrights to a minimum social responsibility? Are you saying that because they are state enemies who together, I quote Minister Ljajic, who together with employers, who love to spend their birth funds, cheat on Serbian citizens and take away their budget? For me, as a woman, as a mother, it's absolutely amazing that the state is not as aware as employers who care exclusively about their budget. The state should take care of its population policy The state should help its families. They are the ones who are Serbia's future, and that's probably the social responsibility. Are you aware that these are the rights of children who have not yet been born? I can't believe it. I can't believe it. Furthermore, you've made 700,000 extremely poor in Serbia, living below the lower poverty line, and what you've done to them, what you've spent their non-intentionary budgets, you've eaten 83 people's cuisines in which they could feed, because every ten Serbian citizens feed there. So, what did we foresee in this amendment? We predicted that from the point of point of view where the expenses for buying goods and services are, we took one billion, and you predicted 40 billion and 126 million, so one billion and we gave it to social protection, just to cover these costs, where these enemies are spending, these families. That would've been a dead end. You're not ready to turn that one billion into something that's Serbia's future. You have answered us that you do not accept our amendment because all services, all purchases of goods and all that is necessary in this point to the state of Serbia. Thank the state of Serbia and the government of Serbia for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33898	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33899	Madam President, it seems to me that if we carefully analyze, we will see that certain declared opposition parties have spent most of their time arguing in particular in attempts to discredit and attack other opposition parties. I think he's just saying that to himself. What I'd just like to say is that in every normally arranged state, the budget has to be the fruit of multiple consultations. Since the ruling coalition is the largest political force in the coalition called For Europe's Serbia, I would like to remind that when the budget is brought to the EU, so-called. The European Commission, both the Council and the European Parliament, are involved in these talks. The proposed amendment provides for expenditure on the purchase of goods and services to be reduced and to be defined for childcare, i.e. the Youth Fund. It is something that any government, especially those declared socially responsible, would do in continuity. It seems to me that, as Mr Popovic said, the budget is neither developmental nor social. Given the time limit, I'm going to talk about the Youth Fund. Since we are a country that has a large number of young and gifted people, but, of course, to make the most of their capacities, the state has to support them adequately. Of course, these people later form an elite that should lead and develop this country and make it competitive in international markets. I'll give you an example that speaks of something quite the opposite. Teodor von Burg is a young Belgrade citizen who is Serbia's most successful young mathematician, who is said to have more medals than he is age. He has 12 international recognitions from mathematical Olympics and other competitions involving mathematicians under the age of 20. However, the lower age limit of the Youth Gifts Fund has been disabled on several occasions to use their scholarship, so that those he actually won at these competitions had the right to consume that scholarship, while it was not the case with him. No one saw how pointless the existence of such an age line was. Also, for three students who represented Serbia at the mathematical Balkans, there is no possibility of being scholarshipd by the Ministry of Science, since they are lower-class high school students, and this is predicted only for high-school students. For such persons, this amendment also provides for an increase in funds. If it is possible to offer through order citizenship to individuals, and publicly, in order to promote politicians, I think it is possible to increase the funds and amend the rules of the Youth Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33900	Dr. Zoran Shami has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33901	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, I would be much happier if instead of sorry for the expression, bureaucrats at the finance ministry wrote that something was not in line with Article 28. The law on the budgetary system, if some amendment is on the subject, and this one certainly is, has exceeded, then there can always be done something in one dialogue with MPs on the subject. Allow me, Madam Chairman, to have a dipression. You fellow MPs probably all know what the opposition is. Now I'm going to assure you that you don't know. The first contribution to what the opposition is, is the famous 1993 statement by Dusan Mihajlovic, a liberal, or then the president of New Democracy, who gave an explanation to journalists when asked why he supported the Socialist government, said a famous sentence -- we are a co-ruling opposition party. It seems that the co-government opposition parties are in fashion. Today, though, a man learns while he's alive, learns something else. I'd say -- it looks like the opposition party is the party that is attacking the government, not the current party, but the previous party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33902	Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33903	When we talk about young people in Serbia, respected Madam Presidents and Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, there are political parties that keep talking about problems in young people in Serbia and keep saying that young people belong to the future. Personally, I believe that young people are a solution to the problem, not a problem in Serbia. I don't think they belong to the future, but they belong to the present. When we talk about the Youth Fund, I absolutely support the idea that all people have access to this fund, but I think that the state of Serbia has done enough for those who have a legal limit, or an insufficient number of years to even sign up to compete and receive a scholarship from the Youth talent Fund, that the state of Serbia is helping them adequately. And God forbid we have as many young, talented people in Serbia as possible, so that there are many to help, that it's not just the case with Teodor von Burg or with some other people who participate in the mathematical Olympics. When we talk about the problem of these young people at all, I would once again underline, for DS, young people are not a problem, but a solution to the problem, and I absolutely support all the efforts to send young people to the world and compete with their peers from the world, with older peers, older children, to compete with all those people to compete with on a sports plan, on the agenda and field of science, culture, art, because Serbia paid a very expensive price when we tried to deal with other people in another field.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33904	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33905	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 concerning subsidies, economic classification of 45th, and I have requested that the 42 billion be increased to 62 billion, i.e. we asked that this amount increase by 20 billion. Here is a very interesting explanation that this amendment has been rejected. I will call, of course, on one of the findings of Zoran Krasic, my colleague, who just said he could accept that he was legally and technically unspoken or incorrect and this amendment. But watch this, Madam Minister, this is directed, first of all, to you. The explanation for which you refused this amendment has three positions. In both the first and second terms, you are referring to the Budgetary System Act. You have found a foothold in the provisions of the Budgetary System Act to refuse this amendment. Now I ask you -- is this debate tonight in line with the budget, or the Law on the Budgetary System of the Republic of Serbia? I ask you, did the budget come to the Assembly according to the Budget System Act? And my question to you, to answer to the Assembly and citizens -- did the government respect the law to which this Assembly has committed when it comes to a budget calendar and a member of the 31st law? I ask you accordingly, did you respect a member of the 103rd law relating to criminal provisions, unless an article 31 is respected? Budgetary system law? As of now, we get a picture of you in the government based on this and we ask you, will the government respect the budget calendar and will, by the end of March, receive proposals from the ministries so that it can project the budget defined by the Budgetary System Act, if it couldn't this year, in the following year? Today, when we are discussing the 2010 budget, we are expected to have a clear debate on the 2009 budget. The government now gives itself the right to remind us and remind us of a law that does not respect itself. It doesn't oblige us, nor gives us the right to your disrespect for the law, to rule and to behave in this way. We can accept the fact that the amendment isn't technically detailed or perfect, but you could at least explain it to bypass. Maybe this item 3 was just enough. Through this amendment, we have sent you a clear message of what we want to do and where we want to spend taxpayers' funds, dominantly in the following year. In Article 3, i.e. in paragraph 3 of this argument, if I may say so, be careful that refusing the amendment does not mean that you deny the grounds to provide additional funds for subsidies in the economy, agriculture, other activities, since such needs have already been considered. In one sentence before that, you say that in this year or next year you have defined 8.8 billion more than this year for subsidies. I'm asking you, is that enough? You do not say that, at the same time in the next year, you have projected two billion more in the position of contracts and special services, in those risky areas, according to the DRI, where by treating 27% of the budget, you have found the most problems and deviations from the law. That's another parallel. You've increased 2 billion for that, and for the entire economy and subsidies, only 8.8 billion. In those 8.8 billion, 1.4 billion is for companies, subsidies to enterprises above all for Greenfield investments. I mentioned that yesterday -- a billion and four hundred million dinars this country defines to help companies that are dominant, or so should at least be in the export sector that should provide a foreign exchange inflow to this country, which are convulsing in general indifference, an extremely bad business environment. At the same time, the Company Tax Act is in force, where taxpayers, i.e. legal persons, are exempt from corporate tax if they invest 600 million dinars in fixed assets. With its budget for the entire economy and subsidies, the state predicted a billion and four hundred million. You want us to take you seriously. Not to remind the Assembly, MPs and viewers of what was said about railway subsidies, that they are consumer subsidies, in essential consumption, by starting investment operations. Come on, all right. This is general wage consumption and lags, to say receipts and social benefits. As a result, the SRS considered that this budget could provide at least 20 billion more to be provided through subsidies, in a concrete and serious way, but a serious and economically acceptable way of pushing into consumption. If you reanalyse the other amendments to the SRS, and Mr Krasic mentioned it, we've been taking off where waste management is, where things are, as you said in discretion and flexibility, left to the ministers' conscience, so instead of hanging pictures on walls and drinking and eating in cafes, we're giving those who might use millions, two, five, ten million, 100 million or billions of dinars more wisely, not to be you or anyone else in trouble when we start paying off debts that are dominantly going to pay off in 2015, 2016, etc., because you're going to create economic opportunities that will be able to meet these challenges. Finally, looking back on one discussion, or a few discussions from earlier, where the polemics were conducted, and you know, it is always somehow the authorities that experience the shadow of the story of the budget and all the illogical economic character that is evident here, to cloud the story of the European perspectives, the European future of Serbia. Only through two papers will I remind you of one economic reality in Serbia today, which disqualifies us from being a partner and a co-worker to anyone, not the EU. These are two documents, I'm not going to mention names, names, banks, or companies, and I can give you an insight, Madam Minister, to look at that. These documents ended up in all the competent state institutions and no one's responding, absolutely no one. This is the decision of the assembly of a company that was privatised in 2008, following the five-eyed revolution, following the release and conquest of democracy in this country. The company's assembly decided that seven cadastrian parcels owned by it were sold for only 1,037,840 dinars to another company. Three days later, the same company that bought this for a million dinars, concluded a contract with a single bank to grant a loan guarantee, amounting to 234,707,000 etc. What's in the contract? The mortgage on those seven parcels this company bought a few days ago, estimated 480 million dinars. People, in front of whose eyes do executive rule, and whose eyes do this kind of lawlessness happen? They promise the citizens in this country a bright European future. These are questions that we can't finally get answers after 10 years of your authority. This budget has been created, Madam Minister, unfortunately, if you could decide for yourself, you'd probably be different, it's made of compromise, it's created on rotten compromises and the fact that you're really not ready to resist the insatiable needs of individuals who run this country's economic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33906	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Mr. Free Maraš has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33907	With a lot of what my predecessor said in some respect, we might as well agree. However, I would like to say that if, for these few days, the public, and especially the MPs who spend a lot of time in this room, it is not clear that LDP does not support this budget, because we also consider it to be a compromise, but a compromise with the life that currently exists in Serbia. If he's the 2009 continuity budget, we can't support him. Everything we had to say, Mrs Dragutinović, you listened carefully and carefully and wrote down and I'll be free, I hope you won't mind, to quote what you said the other day in the hallway: "Here's the hottest critic". Therefore, Mr. Shami, when you say that the LDP is a co-government opposition party to this government, I must tell you that we are proud that, together with the DS, we have adopted some laws in this Assembly, which allowed this country and obtain visas and defrosting of the trade agreement, but better be, as you have called it, the co-government opposition DS party in these affairs, than to be like Vojislav Kostunica in 2001 -- a co-defying opposition supporter of the Special Operations Unit.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33908	National MP Dr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33909	Mr. Maras, you probably didn't hear, I didn't say LDP was a co-government opposition party, that's what you said. You probably recognized each other somewhere. If I'm not mistaken, Vojislav Kostunica was president of the SRJ in 2001. So it wasn't the opposition. It doesn't matter for this debate. I'm glad I finally heard from my LDP buddy's mouth today that they're attacking the budget. I didn't have that impression, but now you're unequivocally saying it, and in that sense, I commend you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33910	Mr. Free Marash, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33911	Mr Shami, with all due respect to your parliamentary work so far and all the years you have spent in this House, it is completely incomprehensible for me to sit here every day and that you have just heard that LDP MPs are criticising this budget, that LDP MPs have been demanding for days and weeks, since the DRI report appeared, to be on the agenda of this Assembly before discussing the 2010 budget, that LDP MPs are asking to discuss the draft final budget account for 2008. All of what we've been saying these days has been directed at only one thing, not to bring down the government, not to say that ministers are thieves or I don't know what, but to try to fix the 2010 budget through our amendments. There's a difference between you and us. You want this budget not to pass in order to call the election. We want this budget to change in order for Serbia to finally take a key step towards reforms in 2010 and reforms that should cover all segments of this life. It was possible that there were no those in the government who were turning far more backwards than forwards. That is why we are in certain situations, when laws were to be supported that, not only bring Serbia closer to the EU but bring the European way of life and European values closer to Serbia, support the laws. I think we have much more reason to be content when we support these laws than you did when you supported the ratification of the agreement with the Russian Federation when it was donated to the NIS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33912	MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33913	Mr. Maras, I really don't have to explain to the citizens of Serbia the differences between LDP and DSS. Trouble is, in fact, LDP is in something else -- whatever point is on the agenda, and even the most important law of the year, such as the budget, you always finish some of your jobs, and then you do what you have to do. It's a fake. Let me tell you right now, I have no intention of answering you anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33914	I feel like it's all clear. Mr. Ostojić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33915	With all due respect, Mr. Shami, just to explain what kind of business you're talking about, because viewers can get the wrong impression from this calm but unargued and empty discussion of Mr. Shami. So, from the beginning we say that this budget is a disaster, because it does not see the desire to change reality in Serbia, but we see the budget of continuity, not only with last year but also with years before that, when Mr. Kostunica leads the two governments. Mr. Shami, you wouldn't want us to go further because we've got a little bit of work to do, but those insinuations, those jumps, they might be cute. Tell me, what kind of business do we do for you? From the beginning, we say that a budget in which a third of the income goes to transfers to the pension fund cannot possibly be developmental, can only be social. Mr. Shami, we don't finish any jobs, we only finish one job, and that's called defense of public interest. As we were against your government, we weren't that we didn't like you or your president, but what your government did against the public interest, so we're always on the side of the public interest now and most often against this incompetent and loose government, but for passports, for reforming the judicial system which, in some way, introduces a silent lustration, when they're not already able to implement the Law on lustration, which is in force, these are some things that we'll always support, because it's leading the country forward. We've lost a lot of time under two of your governments so we can now surface in these European government affairs (President: It's been two minutes. Who do bad work, but who do.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33916	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. You didn't call any members, so it was Mr. Shami's address. You've only had the right to a replica now, and that's the end. I give you my word now. You had the right to a replica, please, Mr. Ostović, you were entitled to a replica and I am giving you a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33917	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, I am truly sorry that the precious time we have is being used in this kind of debate, but I believe that what he said before. Shami is not correct, and he should explain what kind of private business we're doing. I think it also deserved your reaction, Madam Chairman, to clarify Mr. Shami. I really didn't understand what he was talking about. We have always been ready to talk, we have always been ready to criticise, offer solutions, and as the DS MP noted, unlike the vast majority of those who criticized, we have offered solutions. Are those solutions good? From our point of view, they are, from the point of view of some others, probably not, but we're trying to find the best way, not just for the current situation, but also to look a little ahead, to look two, three, five years ahead. That is why all the measures we have proposed, everything we have demanded to be on the agenda before the debate on the budget, is about our intention and our experience of this budget, or our criticism of the 2010 budget, which we consider to be justified. One more thing, Madam Chairman. Please, you weren't in the O.R., Mr. Novakovic chaired. He failed to react when one MP committed a harsh violation of the Parliament's dignity. If we remember, 10 to 15 days ago, when he visited this assembly by a European Parliamentarian, Mr Jelko Kacin, and when a breach of the Rules of Procedure was committed, you said then that in the day of the vote you would vote to hurt the Rules of Procedure. That didn't happen. Please, this time, since we have asked that in the Parliament's voting day, if there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please carry out consultations within the ruling majority and that for the first time such abuse, or such a violation of the Rules of Procedure, be characterised as a violation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33918	Thank you. (Zoran Shami, from the site: Replica. On what basis, Mr. Shami? (Zoran Shami, from the scene: he listed my words wrong. No, you're clear, no more replicas. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Mr. Sreto Peric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33919	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, if fate intends to defend the budget twice more on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then my proposal will be, as I see a problem, that your pension be a national pension. We in the SRS always focus the problem, and then we propose a solution. You will have a national pension with an increase, and it will shrink from the prime minister exactly as much as it was prime minister. For what? Because he talked about this 1.009-page act for five minutes and then left. What do MPs expect when it comes to the 2010 budget of the Republic of Serbia? Both the public and our citizens expect the prime minister, first of all, and then of you, pensions will be at that level. In 2010, at least we'll hire that much, we'll keep this standard. That's what needs to be preceded by further explanation and interpretation of this budget. One of the fellow MPs asked the SRS MPs, first of all, to let you do your job. We can't let those who could sometimes vote from Thessaloniki, from Bodrum, and who knows everything from where. To let alone do their jobs that privatized the largest number of state and social firms in the way they are, I'm not going to use any harsh expression, I'm not going to say it's a robbery or any other privatisation, we can't let those who have implemented justice reform in such a way that they've spent all nine years and we can't let those who brought their citizens into hope in a decade. And that's how we have to control them, and that's what we want. Now why couldn't it have been possible to give that answer, let's say -- we're going to stop the real amount of pensions at that level, we're going to hire so many thousands of Serbian citizens in 2010? For the reason that an SRS amendment submitted to Article 1 is not accepted, and it refers to the part where it is spent, in the bulky part of the budget, where we have proposed to increase to 6.5 billion for subsidies in the economy from 3.5 billion. We followed one rule or article 44. The budget system law provides for these funds to be found under budget deficits. You will see, in particular, in Article 7, which SRS MPs have submitted that we are giving concrete solutions to try to save in that budget to replace the 3 billion-dollar funds that would be transferred to economic subsidies. You will not do this and it is not the same situation of this act, I repeat again, from 1.009 pages before these amendments and after the amendments have been submitted. Most of the amendments submitted by the SRS to the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget stem from what the DRI established in the budget control, the spending of the 2008 budget, and then we can't stay blind or silent in front of that fact, when you've established so many objections based on a third of the controls, and I think it's even less cynical that the President of the Republic says it should come back and then correct what can be corrected. Yes, yes, Madam Minister, he said that. Who's right, who can do it? How many non-chalant statements your party president and the president of the Republic make, I'll tell you, when he came to the judge for violations, he said - I'm a man who doesn't consume alcohol, but I made a little toast after a big victory, I didn't know it was forbidden. Imagine, there's a call for someone not to know it's forbidden, who's signing an order to declare the law. Isn't that a little cynical for you? Don't do that, it's certainly not good. If by any chance this amendment had been accepted, this was one but not the only amendment that had to be accepted, if you wanted to help both the economy and the citizens of Serbia. When I say that you should be rewarded, I say this most well-intentionedly, because I assume that in the period when you start preparing for the budget you have big problems, but the fact that I already said that the budget was adopted unanimously, that is, the draft budget adopted unanimously by the government, and a certain number of ministers here at that point, they were going to put their heads down in a sign that they had to. Now we're not getting into what they had to do. If they had the courage, they should have come out of that and that government, and they didn't have to accept such a budget unanimously. There's another thing that's also below every level of taste, and where do you see it? You can see it in Bačka Gračac. Yesterday, the prime minister, the prime minister of the AP Vojvodina, handed over that, if Odzaci municipality, thank fellow Skrbić, handed over the keys to the users of the 25 installing houses, whose total value, probably with pay, amounts to about 6,000 euros, of which UNHCR may not have, but someone has donated 50% of the funds, 50% of the funds are credit-free funds. Imagine the irony and imagine the insolence, it seems in the Municipality of Odjaks. When? At the moment when the emergency local elections were called there. Why was Mr. Bojan Pajtic not at a time when the president of Odzac municipality, and this successful president, in two terms, was Mr. Milan Čuk, a member of the SRS and then showed concern for refugees and care for those who, to the greatest extent possible, were not able to provide a roof over his head by the Democratic Party. He acts as if he were a pop, and Mr. Pajtic forgets that it was just his father, and he is president of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina. All of this doesn't matter, but this amendment should be accepted because of those who want to start the economy, if it has business activities, if the real sector is doing something. Then at least in 2011 and later 2012, we can expect it to be better, we can expect new jobs, we can expect an increase in pensions, we can expect a perspective for youth, we want them to be our reality. But if there's no job, Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, then it's not worth much. Sending only from here a message that the youth is welcome, and do nothing for them, believe me, doesn't mean much to me, they leave us at this time much more than it was, anytime, before your arrival in power. Your policy is very devastating for the citizens of Serbia, and we will not let you go so easily, that I cannot say no to knowledge, but very often the deliberate collapse of this country and the carelessness of those for which the government is there. Give a little more responsibility and show some courage to those you chose here and for whom you voted. Do you ask them to give you responsibility and to account for what they did? And you ignore the fact that even what is evident, and don't listen to the story of the representatives of the SRS, look again at the report of the State Auditing Institution and everything will be clear to you, and then probably, in the day of the vote, many of these amendments will be accepted. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33920	National MP, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33921	I will take the opportunity to raise a question on the subject of Article 1, expressing my doubts about the validity of the projections on which this house is based, which is once again built from the roof, that is, from the need and not from the foundation, that is, the stability and ability of the economy and the citizens to finance this expensive and inefficient administration. What is most interesting was contained on page 2, in the total incomes and incomes under point 1.3 of value added tax, where the country's added tax category of 134,506.000,000 has tortured the SNS economic team through an attempt to find an excuse for such a high growth in one tax which, at the time of the decline, all other aggregates affecting this projection, is growing at an incredible rate of 36%, depending on whether we have a rebalance in 2009 on the mind or the basic budget. A similar type of unreal projection that was analysed occurred in 2009, but then one of the previous financial associates explained this to the tax refund and the need to carry out a serious analysis of whether the growth of VAT revenues in domestic transport, which nominally increased in 2009 by 24.5% in the first quarter, compared to the same period last year had a real growth of 13.5%, but it was not possible to explain how both economic activity and domestic consumption fell. In order to establish the right state of VAT, it was necessary to analyse both the data in gross VAT collection and the returns during the observed period, but unfortunately, as this time, all the elements for this analysis were not available to us, and above all, I ask that you do not show the VAT Ministry’s website as aggregated as you do in order to control and monitor what is in relation to VAT imports and what is collected from VAT in the country. If in 2010, a completely realistic reduction in the income tax of five billion dinars was planned and projected, a reduction in the profit tax of 13 billion dinars compared to the rebalance or 23 billion dinars compared to the 2009 budget, if the projected inflation is 6% and if we consider it, and the gross social product is growing 1.5%, there is simply no calculation that can reach this figure. You have on page 215 that real growth in personal consumption was reduced by 5.7% in 2009, while the projected growth in 2010 was only 3.6%. In Table 2 on page 214, you gave us information that real average net earnings recorded a 2% decrease. In addition to what you've written, there's what you haven't written, here I'm adding- wages and pensions are frozen, a large number of employees don't get paid, they're physically employed, a large number of citizens are jobless, therefore and without profit, over the year with inflation growth and this frozen salary, purchasing power won't be able to grow, it's going to shrink, it's simply the logical consequence of what you've stated. Now, based on what I've stated, I don't even want some additional elements that aren't so important for this analysis that I'm also stating based on all of that you've projected VAT growth in the country at 134.5 billion dinars. I'm not comparing the growth of the country's projected VAT value with the budget rebalancing value, because we've been doing this analysis and we've seen that your tax revenues for 2009 are falling, and you said at one point that you've had income growth, and it's clearly been growth due to the taxation and collection of those Montenegrins, as we call them, cars then, so that these oscillations couldn't contribute to any particular differences in the year. And it turns out, from all that analysis, you said that the profit tax, you made a mistake in the projection, you admitted a mistake of about five billion dinars, and it turns out that the rebalance of 302.4 billion is actually real in a figure of just 297 billion. All this tells us is that either it's your dishonesty or again the accountants have unprofessionally calculated the elements you've given them to enter into this budget projection. I don't know what I'm more concerned about, either dishonesty or not expertise. You've carefully designed all other data, and the decline in gross product of 1%, according to your analysis, reduces revenue in the budget by 16.7 billion dinars. If last year's growth was projected to 4%, this year only 1.5%, then 16.7 plus 16.7 billion was actually going to be minus. Whether it's a mistake or something that's an alchemy that's only understandable to people who work at the Ministry of Finance. Why does this matter? The only real growth in this VAT is the growth of excise taxes, those specific excise duties on cigarettes of nine billion dinars. That's real real. It is possible that out of 650m euros in subsidised loans, when cars are purchased, the government took out its right pocket and returned 18 billion dinars to the left. Eighteen plus nine is twenty-seven. How's that 34? Is it even possible to design a budget like this that loses the link between economic growth, employment, purchasing power and spending and revenue that the budget plans? We can't say that this is a pure math problem. I even want to say that this budget, as projected, is proof of the government's time horizon, which means the election cycle. It was always the largest part of the product, the expenditure, however it was projected, or it was the revenues of privatisation or donation or such tax revenues, but the orientation was always going into current consumption. No government, as much as it represented itself as the victim, who wanted to make reforms, looked beyond the election cycle and courted the citizens, bringing short-term tax regulations to which she wanted to show concern for the citizens, passing the Tax Liberation Act, or VAT on the first apartment, and then, the release that was, the income tax of citizens who did not contribute to increasing employment, the reduction of the rate on computers, which also did not bring some effects. This, such a tiny, zero-eight billion minus release, zero seven billion minus release, the government, for example, lost 22 billion dinars of income in the previous year by making good citizens. On the other hand, she took credits with which deficits and holes were created, covering and covering, and now explain how you do well to them when you introduce tax insecurity, changing budgets to budgets every year of tax regulations, introducing legal uncertainty, making high costs for those who run tax books and doing accounts, not to mention the 13 tax-treated law, VAT, rules, opinions that also collect the wish of someone who wants to pay taxes in time and within the time period, but exactly how much he owes the state. So sooner or later, there had to be a time when there was no income from privatisation. That time has come. It's a habit of spending like we've got something to sell all the time. It's something that's burdensome and it's called high public spending. Will the government realize, when and under any pressure, that it cannot be financed from one billion bonds, from loans past the infrastructures that go into current consumption, which last 15 or 20 years, but whose half-year interest and wars are already becoming increasingly difficult to service and when will they design a budget suitable for the economy and citizens? Are elections really the only solutions? Answer that question, but answer us -- do you really think you're right when you say you need to tax the income levels of citizens who are the same wherever they are earned? No, I don't think you're right. Because that's how you did it, we got an economy that doesn't have export-oriented branches, because you've freed traffic stocks like this and everything called investment funds. The people called it at the time of the war -- transge-frangs, buy cheap, sell more expensive, and now this is a virtual economy where there is no creation or additional value, but there is, not speculation, but speculative actions in which they earn, not professional, not directed, but well-informed, who know that they deceive the public on the financial market, inflating the value of actions and going to the hands of the Accounting and Audit Act, which still doesn't punish it. It doesn't matter if you tax the income of someone who has earned by investing in the production and employment of people or by taxing the founder of an investment fund for the management of voluntary pension insurance. Until we do structural reforms, which you need to have the strength to do, it's the first reform of pension insurance, until you admit that it's the price of a coalition that's government, acting as the owner of citizens, businesses and all of us, and that it cost 50 billion just last year alone, there's no progress for us. The break I took when I said you were acting as the owner was caused by my human dismay over the way that last night my colleague and I left the assembly late stopped someone from security because President Tadic was coming into this building. Mr. Tadic, we can harm the president politically and that's the only way. I felt hurt that someone as a citizen saw me as a danger to my country in front of the president. It's not this, I hope he doesn't see himself as Berlusconi and this isn't Italy, and we're not the ones fighting in that way for what's called a better state. Since SNS and we think the same thing about public spending, he sent a clear message to the DS board, where he expects a reduction of public spending and warns you that the crisis has not gone through, please, you will not, because of us, you will not, because of the citizens, do it because of your president who decides on a lot of things and let him have support in achieving what the rest of us could benefit from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33922	Mrs Tabakovic, was this the time of the authorised representative or the time of the parliamentary group? (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the post: Authorised representative. ) National MP Srdjan Milivojevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33923	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but above all, the citizens of Serbia, when we discuss the budget, we hear various objections from the opposition, and there is much that is not right for us. We just heard that it's not a good thing the president of the Republic showed up at a misdemeanor judge who gave him a fine of 40,000 dinars. Those 40,000 dinars will end up in the RS budget and I think it's a good thing the President of the Republic is equal to all the other citizens of this country and what the law applies to everything. Some now say it's no good that the President of the Republic said in court that he didn't know he had committed a misdemeanor that he appeared in court, but I'll remind you that we had a vice president of the government who knew it was a crime to take a hecler to the students and to raise a gun to the cabbies, but he said I don't care, and he never showed up in court. He also said - or we'll take out those students with a spoon, so he never showed up in court. I think it's good that things change qualitatively in this country, that the law is equal for all people, both for those who know the law and for those who don't know it, because criminal law says that ignorance of legal norms does not release the sanctions that this law prescribes. I think 40,000 dinars will welcome the RS budget, as will the fines paid by MPs for the traffic violations made. That money, Mr. Squirt, is going straight to the budget. All fines end... It says there the recipient of the RS budget. These days, the papers are full of articles that MPs don't pay fines for traffic violations, that they call for immunity and that I don't know what. We are equal before the law, just like the President of the Republic, and every citizen of this country knows it, because we have publicly demonstrated it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33924	National MP Miroslav Markicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33925	Madam Minister, I don't know how to force you, so to speak, to answer some questions that we, believe me, are asking on behalf of the citizens here. Since we recently heard a fellow member here from the ruling coalition criticising the opposition who is playing its part here, I am not proposing concrete solutions to how some things can be fixed. I will say that the New Serbia parliamentary group has submitted several amendments, we always submit few amendments, and this time, this year, none has been accepted. We wanted to help students and pensioners with these amendments, and we pointed out where we thought there was money. Two hours ago, Madam Minister, I received a letter from an auditor. It is called the director of the internal audit function in JP Telekom Srbija, the gentleman's name is Slobodan Milosavljevic, a graduate engineer. I suggest, Madam Minister, that in the morning when at eight o'clock, and I believe you are regular at work, come and do something and get big political points and respect from the citizens of Serbia. I am convinced that within an hour, if you read this letter, with the instruments and services you have, in an hour you can find money and raise pensions, and that students help and that these martyrs, heroes and heroes get off the rails, because they have not been paid the wages that have been bloody earned. You know exactly what I'm talking about. The gentleman whose name I read here says, "The insight into this data can only have certain persons from our company," so Telekom Srbija, "and competent state authorities in accordance with the law". I ask you, do you have, Madam Minister, the financial police under your command, as the people say. Do you have budget inspections? Come in here in the morning in Telekom Srbija and you'll find money for all these people. For all these 700,000 hungry and those lying on the tracks. Please answer me how it is possible for the company to be public and for the contracts to be kept secret. This letter says we have a contract with Srdjan Shaper, but it's a business secret. It's a business secret, whether it's a company that owns all of us here and the MPs and all the citizens and you, as far as it's possible for the JP to be secret contracts. Please, most honestly, I ask you to go with the budgetary and financial police, and please and the police, enter Telekom Srbija and make them show you how much this privateer, Mr. Big Marketing expert, we see the biggest in Europe, got money from Telekom since 2004, and I'm telling you and I'm convinced that, assure me, I'll admit that I've made a mistake, there's enough money to pay even these workers in Lapov and Novi Pazar where the poor people strike, and New Year's New Year's and they have the right to live and to buy their children for New Year's Day's Day's chocolate. Understand me however you like, pathetically, if I'm fighting demagogue here, as some say, for some points. I'm a working kid, I understand those people. It's up to you to celebrate yourself to show that you are primarily a human person that I firmly believe in, otherwise you wouldn't be telling you this. I've been fighting a difficult battle here for three months as a very important individual, and all of you know this and you have a job, you could have done anything without me. I repeat, how is it possible for a public company to be public and secret contracts? What's behind that? Why doesn't it get published? If a man got 20 million, 30 million euros, I don't know how much, no problem, but I've got something coming to mind, Madam Minister. Why this public company, there's still a list of marketing companies that they hired, doesn't hire young unemployed people who finish colleges, who get their marketing ideas from designs around the world and Europe in various competitions, so they would work for 500 euros. Why don't they hire 50 people? What do you think? What is your response to the citizens of Serbia? Why do those companies have Srdjan Shaper's property, why do they hire them? Why can't they do that marketing, that they don't have any competition in Telekom Srbija, at least in fixed telephony? Which is your rational answer, Madam Minister, which is a man of my level of education, and I believe most Serbian citizens can understand. So I ask the question - will you do it in the morning? If you do not, ask for support from the Assembly, you will have the support of 99% of the MPs in this assembly and this one that just appeared and all MPs of the DS. Three months here, no one's replicated me for what I'm saying. Because this is true. Do it in the morning. Save Serbia as much as you can in your portfolio. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33926	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Krstin, who wants a word, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment in front of the SRS to the draft bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 1(4) of the table "Common expenditures, non-financial and financial assets purchase expenditure", which means that an economic classification of 45, namely, agricultural subsidies, amounting to 18 billion dinars is replaced by 28 billion dinars. Why is he saying this? When the debate was in principle, I presented the fact that there are 300,000 registered agricultural holdings in Serbia. The subsidies received 80,000 registered agricultural holdings. Why am I talking 80 grand? These are, therefore, how the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management formulated professional peasants. Unprofessional peasants are those 280 thousand unregistered agricultural holdings. I still argue that if there is a figure of 18 billion dinars left, and I doubt that the Ministry of Agriculture will get so much subsidies to registered agricultural holdings and ask the SRS to increase that amount to 28 billion dinars, that, possibly, the 280 thousand registered non-professional farmers, and I speak for the professional peasant and non-professional peasant, would be able to get some church in terms of the 2010 spring harvest bar that awaits us. That's why I submitted the amendment and instead of an amount of 18 billion dinars for agricultural subsidies, I asked it to be 28 billion dinars. I continue to argue that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management will not receive that much for those registered agricultural holdings, i.e. Those 80,000 professional peasants. I ask the question - should those unprofessional 280 thousand be put aside, in some outside the margin and not be treated, and as if they do not produce food for Serbian citizens. Please, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, to respect this amendment of mine, to help all registered agricultural holdings so that everyone can get those 12,000, poor 12,000 per hectare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33928	MP Arpad Fremond has his word, please. I'm sorry, you'll have to reapply and only press once.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33929	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President before I continue my presentation, I would like to inform you that I will continue to use my MP group's time as an authorised representative of the Group of Minority Members. I support the meaning of Mr. Krstin's amendment and allow me, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, to make certain suggestions, to apply to the 2010 draft budget law to the part relating to agrarian. Last week, we discussed on the Committee on Agriculture with representatives of the Association of Agricultural Economists of Serbia, representatives of the Institute for Economic Affairs of Agriculture and representatives of the Association for Agriculture of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and Vojvodina. The discussion lasted three hours. At the end of the discussion, we concluded that no present expert is satisfied with the projected agricultural budget of the upcoming 2010. The budget also cannot be satisfied with representatives of the Vojvodina Farmers' Association who asked the president of the Republic of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia, of the prime minister, to do everything to ensure that the 2010 budget is at least 6% of the national budget. Serbia's agriculture averaged 4.3% of the national budget from 2003 to 2008, and in 2009, as well as this 2010 proposal, no amount is expected anywhere near this average. The budget is forecasted for agriculture about 3% compared to the national budget, which is half what representatives of farmers, representatives of the profession and, of course, the Committee on Agriculture were looking for. With this draft budget, the state will again release our farmers unprepared and unskilled on the free market. If we analyse this year's 12000 dinar incentive per hectare, we can conclude that the state does not finance agricultural production, but vice versa, farmers finance the state and the full budget of the Republic of Serbia. The agricultural producer in the surrounding countries is making subsidies of about 35,000 dinars per hectare and more, while we have the amount of 12,000 dinars. We belong to the same market and that makes farmers unequal in business. If we are on the road to EU integration, then we must also take care of our agriculture which is the strongest economic branch currently in Serbia. Only agriculture achieves a positive balance on imports and exports. We MPs of the Alliance of Duke Hungarians believe that this is made possible by the enormous efforts of farmers who can freely be called exhausting. The upcoming sowing shows that there is not enough funds to buy re-competitions, leading to less production of the next harvest in 2010. When it comes to budget allocation, agriculture is the last hole in the play, and when it comes to the results achieved in 2009, then agriculture is the first violin. This success is only the success of our working and hardworking farmers who, if necessary, borrow money, but sow products, reap to their ultimate possibilities. We SVM MPs asked last year for budget and budget rebalances to increase the amount allocated to agriculture, only to calculate how much revenue the state would have if it doubled the budget for subsidies without counting how much farmers would spend more, buying. In 2009, two times less tractors were purchased than in 2008, and unfortunately, I see, in 2010, it will be even worse. I ask the question - why does the government not want to increase subsidies and funds for agriculture? The state doesn't care about agriculture or what it is. Why have the representatives of the ministry and the government never met with representatives of farmers and agriculture experts? Unfortunately, agriculture is only important in the election years when votes from Vojvodina come in handy, where agriculture deals with more than 16% of the population. These days when the Government of the Republic of Serbia considered a new budget, individuals in the government felt it was not necessary to increase the budget for agriculture, because agriculture is not a crisis, which is not true. Last year, the Ministry of Agriculture significantly reduced the number of agricultural holdings and today we do not know how many registered agricultural holdings we have in the country. We have more than 300 thousand owners registered, more than half non-commercial, so they don't get subsidies, and there are those who don't meet the conditions, but they're registered. According to the experts of the Agricultural Association, there are about 70-80,000 agricultural holdings that receive subsidies. Unfortunately, these figures are also secret to us MPs, as the 2009 Agriculture Ministry's 2009 report officially does not specify exactly how many agricultural holdings remain. I'm going to try to figure out how many farmers actually get for subsidies that are registered, and for what it's enough for. This year, 75% of the grant funds were received by agricultural producers, according to a hectare for three instructions, for mineral fertilisers, for diesel fuel and for seeds. In total, there were 12,600,000, so 70% of these funds are 9,400,000. When we divide it by 12,000 dinars per hectare we get a figure of 780 hectares of agricultural land. If we're still dividing it by 70,000 agricultural holdings, then we get 11 acres of land on average. So our average agricultural producer who receives the subsidy has 11 hectares of land. We can easily calculate that the total subsidy for our average farmer is 130,000 dinars. In order to obtain subsidies, the agricultural producer must pay the state 50,000 for PIO, 30,000 for health care and 11,000 dinars as a water contribution. If he pays all that money, he's got 39,000 dinars. When we divide it by 11 acres we get one average agricultural producer for one hectare of land to get 3,545 dinars. Given the need to register a tractor, maintain agricultural machinery without counting our farmer's work, we can conclude that he has nothing left to launch agricultural production. That alone is enough subsidies, and what about those who don't even get subsidies, or dinars at all, because they don't meet the conditions, and unfortunately there are three times as many. We know that in the EU everyone registered gets subsidies, when we know that they get more funds, why don't we increase the number of agricultural holdings? The quotas we have and do not use will be valid once we join the EU. For example, if we're only exporting a quarter of the baby buffet now, we're below the quota. What we fail to meet will become valid once we join the EU. We won't be able to increase our exports. We have for export and current conditions, and unfortunately our country does not meet the export quota when it comes to agricultural products, we simply do not stimulate our farmers. With this budget and the proposal to finance agricultural production in 2010, there is no indication of the competitiveness of our agriculture in relation to other countries. If we continue to finance agriculture, joining the EU will be the poorest agricultural country. The task of the State is to enable the development of agriculture through incentives for advanced producers and the development of certain projects. The only criterion for stimulating production should be performance, whether large or small. A good example of this is Croatia that subsidises and stimulates warlords with 300 euros per hectare, and pig producers with 15 euros per tow, or 27 euros per stern, to prepare its farmers in time for their entry into the EU and the competition waiting for them. The measures to be adopted for 2010 must be known by the end of 2009, so that farmers can plan the next production year. The Ministry of Agriculture must adopt regulations and regulations for 2010 and put them on the Ministry of Agriculture's website as soon as possible. I hope we learned something this year when regulations and other rules came out only in April. Unfortunately, agricultural producers have not been adequately informed. Every farming municipality must have its own agricultural stations and agricultural advisory services. Particular attention should be paid to farmers of national minorities who must also have their advisers in their native language in the municipalities they live in. SVM MPs only want to point out the shortcomings of this draft budget, without 6% of the agrarian budget, agriculture cannot operate on a market basis. I think and I stand behind that every dinar invested in agriculture will return tenfold, because agriculture is the main factor of our country, of course, the main factor in getting out of the global economic crisis. As an SVM MP, I want this problem solved by dialogue because I think farmers deserve it. I still think that the biggest problem is the small budget for agriculture that makes it impossible to help farmers. SVM MPs and will continue to advocate a larger agrarian budget. Finally, I must underline once again, in this form, SVM MPs cannot support the 2010 draft budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33930	A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Veroljub Arsic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33931	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like Mrs. Minister no longer to be in charge of the Budgetary System Act, at least when it comes to citizens and how much we will really be in charge of them and the state of Serbia in 2010. This is best seen from Article 2 on which the amendment has been submitted. An explanation of why the amendment was rejected, it's really funny and read, although the argument was written by the Government, extremely unserious, and that would be about how much we should be in debt, simply as it is. It says – the loan will provide an amount of 78 billion 850 million dinars, through the broadcasting of state records worth 294 billion dinars. It covers some 292 billion 336 million 362 grand in debt and some dinar there. Thanks to the Budget System Act, in this assembly of Serbia, as a national MP, I had the opportunity to see two of the same budgets, one was in the surplus, and the other was in the deficit, so, exactly the same, only way of showing the revenue side of the budget determined whether it would be in the deficit or in the surplus. It's said to be a deficit of 107 billion dinars. Madam Minister, let's get these 292 billion back from real income to budget, and real customs, taxes, excises, and then put ourselves in charge as much as you asked here. What's the surplus going to be? What's the deficit going to be? It'll be 373 billion. That's how much credit you're planning to take in 2010. The fact that you're going to pay back the old loans of 292 billion doesn't justify you, that's what the debts are. You can take your head off. I say, get this 292 billion back from real income, so let's see what the budget deficit is going to be. Something like this that our government, in order to cover its ineffectiveness and economic situation, is even more depicted on the next case. Through the broadcasting of securities and through loans, so much money has been sucked out of the domestic banking sector, that you have one consequence that loans to businesses and entrepreneurs in 2009 have jumped by about 35 to 40%, indexed in euro. You boast of the incentive loans that you issued during 2009. Madam Minister, let me tell you something you may know, but you don't want to talk about it, why don't you tell me how these loans are coming back? So, a company or an entrepreneur submits a request to the bank, the bank approves a loan and collects funds from the fund. Then the loan pays whether to the legal person or to the entrepreneur, indexed in euro, at the bank's selling price, and the same credit that is financed by the state when it returns the war, pays off on the purchase course of the bank that provided the loan. I'm going to ask you a question -- wait, guys, where'd you get the right? These aren't your assets. Bankers respond – that's our margin, and they have their margin, 1% credit processing. It's his margin, what does he want more? Madam Minister, what did you do to prevent banks from acting like this, especially if they weren't their assets? To this day, nothing. The only course that can be applied, when it comes to subsidized loans issued by the state through banks, is the average NBS rate, neither sales nor purchases, banks intervening between the state and credit users. To make things worse, if we look at the budget and it's said to be this black and we have to be in charge of 373 billion in 2010, Article 1 says that 45 billion and 500 million are due to pay off the debts of the London Club, that can't change. The old currency savings of citizens, that can't change either. Watch the next item -- and long-term bonds of the Republic of Serbia's debt to the NBS. Madam Minister, don't we cover a few dozen billion dinars for the loss of NBS in 2007? With what right, since we covered their debt from the budget, are they now asking us for long-term bonds? Classic beating, we pay you back your debt and you have nothing left to bond. Is it possible to continue the speculative work of the governor of NBS, Mr Jelasic, because there is a major controversy as to why the euro leap on the market occurred? Just look at the NBS site and look at the foreign reserve state. It's supposed to be bigger by about 300 million dinars. When we look at the structure of foreign reserves, it is evident that 145m euros belong to banks that had to transfer that money for mandatory NBS foreign reserve. Of course, when one boasts that there are large foreign reserves, and at the same time on the market, it is he who is debalancing and disrupting the relationship between dinars and foreign exchanges, it appears as a result of the banks wanting to get the 145m euros out of the market and there is a jump. The jump will not be paid by the governor, neither will the banks, will pay the citizens, will pay the economy, as both citizens and businesses are in charge and over-indebted in loans indexed in euro, at 15% interest and upwards. Madam Minister, I'd like you to take one such loan, so with your salary, which is not small, try to pay it off, see what it looks like.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33932	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33933	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the 2010 draft budget law is the most significant document of economic policy, this amendment has been tabled for Article 2. The way in which Article 2 is written in the second article represents a great indemnity of the authorities. What's written means that it doesn't matter what happens to the remaining companies that operate with the majority social capital. The first 30 December 2008 was the deadline for the publication of the first calls to the Privatisation Agency under the Privatisation Act. By the end of this deadline, she announced the sale of all unprivatised enterprises. There were more than 600 of them back then. The auctions were scheduled for 552 companies, but the assessment of economic experts was that most of these companies would have to go into liquidation or bankruptcy, as they were repeatedly unsuccessfully offered for sale, and in some companies the privatisation process was not even started. At the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, they optimistically assessed at the end of last year that it is realistic that the status of all enterprises with social capital will be resolved by mid-2009. We're at the end of the year and this big problem hasn't been solved, of course. There are more than 450 unprivatised enterprises left. According to November this year's data, the new owner has received 68 companies since the beginning of the year. On the other hand, in this year alone, 72 sales have been cancelled, while a total of 457 purchase contracts have been broken since the start of privatisation. We had the opportunity in the morning part of the session to hear from our colleague, Marine Ragus, part of the financial audit report on the 2008 final budget, which refers to loans from the budget and from the privatisation funds, and that these funds have not been returned to the budget. I don't want to read all that again, she read it in detail, and I think that the citizens of Serbia have heard how money was spent that was to be placed in reviving the economy and creating new jobs. According to the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia, more than 400,000 workers in the unfair privatisation process ran out of work between 2001 and 2008. Only in the companies that waited for privatisation at the end of 2008 were about 50,000 workers employed fictitiously and their fate is unfortunately uncertain. I must point out that at a time when the chemical industry is privatised Health from Leskovec, the authorities described this privatisation as successful, and just to remind ourselves, Health has been sold for 3.5m euros. It's not that it's sold into debauchery, but it's something that's not even equal to a gift, something more than a gift. As for workers, more than 219 were recently declared a technological surplus, so the list of those who had to leave Health reached 1300. It's another 1,300 families many of whom remain without the only source of income. And all other privatisations are similar to each other and the fate of workers are also similar, regardless of where Serbia is being done. 18 companies have been privatised since the start of privatisation in the pyrotic municipality, and a sale contract has been broken in each third. Many workers of failed companies have found themselves on the street without work and wages, and shipping on behalf of social programs has not been invested in the launch of production. They are not invested in a new job, but they have gone into personal consumption, although, for example, more than a billion dinars have been deposited in Pirot. The money's been spent, and it's hard to get a new job. At the moment of privatisation, more than 3,000 workers were employed in these companies, and now they remain around 1800. About five sales contracts have been broken up, in an auto-transport company, "Future", dairy, graphics and equipment that employs about 500 workers. Contracts are mostly broken down after frequent controls, when property companies have already been robbed or when everything is mortgaged. The results of privatisation in Loznica and Triestenik are equal to social disaster. These two cities depended entirely on the large industries - the first five-year-olds and the Viscoses. Other companies in these cities used to depend on these two factories. Of the 13 Viscoza plants, only three were privatized, while the other went into bankruptcy. After three failed attempts to sell at Triestenik's First Five-year-old, they wait for sales per piece. In the first five years, another list of technological surpluses was recently made, with 661 workers on the list. However, there are announcements from the Privatisation Agency that the list should be extended to 900 workers. When they leave the company, about 4,000 employees will remain in production facilities. According to major independent trade unions in Loznica, 71 of the social enterprise with 18,150 employees, including Mali Zvornik, Ljubovija and Krupanj, worked before the privatisation process, while more than 15,000 of them were out of work. A 31 social enterprise with 3,000 employees has been privatised, and another seven are waiting for privatisation, which employ 903 workers, while 32 companies with 3,651 workers went into bankruptcy. This is more from the sociological point of view now, but when you look at the prices at which the capital of social enterprises was sold, what you can say is a crime against the economy and that, a crime without punishment, and with the blessing of the state. This amendment has not been accepted. For this reason, the following is given - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the amendment to the same article and the position submitted by the MP Dr Nenad Popovic is accepted. Apparently, the intention of the amendment I submitted on behalf of the SRS was not understood. It is okay to reduce state records of value, as Dr Popovic proposed with his amendment. The essence of this amendment is reflected in the fact that the government must accept the responsibility to start the privatisation process, so that many businesses do not go into bankruptcy or be liquidated. Madam President, please give me the time of two minutes I've spent on computers as the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33934	National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Popovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33935	I thank you for accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33936	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr Antic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33937	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Article 3 or, more specifically, this amendment of mine refers to guarantees from the Republic of Serbia and reflects the general position of the SNS, that we are very dissatisfied with how guarantees are treated in this draft budget, that guarantees which, by interest, are about 10 billion dinars per principal, which are not so small. I think there's a great deal of reason in terms of guarantees, or interest and principality in this bill. If the argument is read, it can be seen that the interest amounting to 4.5 billion dinars applies to public enterprises, to the Serbian Railways, to the Serbian Ways, to Serbia. I'd say 4.5 billion is too much for expenses, possibly guarantees. I failed in this draft budget to recognise a special item for costs for any guarantees issued. I guess it's about interest on those loans that these public enterprises didn't honor contracts. Also, 6 billion and 800 are obligations when it comes to the principal. Please, Madam Minister, explain to us what this is all about. The amount for interest is too high if it is costs, possibly guarantees, and it is too high, because it is about companies that you propose in Article 3 that the Republic of Serbia issue new guarantees, not only for these companies, but also for some other companies worth more than 210 million dinars. That's a very big increase compared to the budget rebalance we had in the previous year, when it was about 130 billion and it means an increase close to 60%. With this relationship of credit users, the relationship in terms of repaying these loans, I think your explanation is necessary, because you get the impression that this is in fact not loans, but that some subsidies are public enterprises, if instead the state, the budget, the citizens, the economy should return these loans to them. The situation in our economy is such that public enterprises are in a much better situation than private businesses. I would remind you, on the basis of a parameter, which is the responsibility relative to deposits, that the private economy's debt is three times higher, or its financial position is three times worse than public enterprises, and it is quite inappropriate for citizens, the private economy to pay public companies' debts, which are mostly monopolies, which most often have an unrastic demand, which are very often supported by the state. This budget provides for some 18 billion dinars, so I'd like to remind you of another way to guarantee 10, and subsidies to the economy of 18, which is the proportion, I'd say. Of those 18, for private companies only one billion and three hundred, so everything else goes back to public enterprises, for agriculture you predicted, excuse me, in the economy 3.5 billion, and in agriculture 18, you predicted 18 billion for agriculture, and only some guarantees, which MPs very little know about, or the cost of these guarantees, go to us 10 billion dinars. All in all, if this is what I'm talking about, if this really isn't some guarantee cost, it's that we have an increase in political power, because public enterprises are for the state, for the government much more interesting than private economy, it's more interesting because there are some political interests, personal interests, and quite the opposite of that for a single market economy. This looks a lot more like a commanding economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33938	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33939	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this amendment needed some sort of clarification, or resolution of certain matters. It seems to me that he has introduced further doubts about the loans the Serbian government is raising to run and build something. So it's not clear to me whether this loan, totalling 75m euros, is a special loan or whether it's a loan that we voted 400m euros for the Clinical and Hospital Centre this year. I have this dilemma. This year is one 400m-euro loan for four clinics. So, I don't get it. Now, if you don't understand that I'm opposed to the reconstruction of the Torlak, just work, on the contrary, you remember that in the past budget and budget rebalancing, I mentioned the Institute of Immunology and Virology of Torlak. I give you serious objections, which is why in the ministry's budget and in general the budget separates insufficient funds or minimum funds from the Tolak Institute, you remember that well. When you don't think in time, when the funds don't qualify for important projects in time, then we come into a situation where we buy vaccines like this, when we're hit by an epidemic of a new pandemic flu. That's the problem. So, in the last budget, I asked the amendment that some of the funds that were intended for travel, the diaries, some of the expenses, the adjustments for the adaptation and reconstruction of the Tolak Institute, you refused and said that this could not happen because these funds were needed by the General Secretariat, the Government, for the purchase of cars, for some other things. Now that that money has been spent, the state has to take credit to restore its capacities and pay expensive interest. Look where the problem is, Madam Minister. Do you understand now? Do you see that I was right? I'm not going to prejudge anything, I'm just expressing one kind of suspicion, the amount intended for "Torlaku" is 25m euros, and it's said in public that we bought 3 million doses of vaccines at 8.5 euros per dose. I'm not saying that's it, but I'm associate. So, in the future, please, take a closer look at the amendments, they're not pointless, they have a purpose. If you'd listened to me a year and a half ago, we wouldn't be in a situation now to raise a 25m-euro loan.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33940	The People's MP, Milet Poscurica, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33941	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 6 of the title reads: "The budget of the AP Vojvodina belongs", and then on to the items of what belongs to the AP Vojvodina budget. It is interesting that Mr Zeljko Tomic, Mr Aleksandar Martinovic, and a group of minorities in the National Assembly, submitted to the 6th amendment, where Mr Pastor literally said in the principle debate that they would not accept such a budget proposal. He openly urged his partner, as he said, that Nenada Canka and LSV do not support such an anti-constitutional draft budget in the voting day. Mrs. Dragutinović, I see you looking at me, just quoting Mr. Pastor's words. After that, in media statements, he said that he did not find understanding in the conversation with you in the hallway, but that he hoped that a compromise solution would still be found by the end of the debate and that you would accept their amendment. Most of the funds coming from the republican budget in the AP, Vojvodina, also go for capital investments, Mrs Dragutinovic. I have to inform you, since I'm sure you don't know how funds from the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund are spent, and the SRS has reason to suspect that you can't even check something like that, because after the adoption of the shameful Statute and the Law on the transfer of jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, we now have a Prime Minister who directly decides how money from the Capital Investments Fund is spent. The board of directors numbers five members, of whom the chairman of the board of directors is also Bojan Pajtic. Of the 200m euros a year, how will be deployed in the AP of Vojvodina for capital investment is decided by five people, i.e. directly by Bojan Pajtic. That money is being invested exclusively in municipalities where DS is in power. A senior DS official made a statement that campaign financing in Vojvodina mostly goes from the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund and the Naftagas. What is certainly a fact, the Regional Assembly adopted a report on the work of the AP Vojvodina in three years, Mrs Dragutinovic, about, as many things are being adopted here, in a debate of a few hours' report in three years. It is simply one of the reasons why DS has thus come to most municipalities in power, especially in the second round of elections for the province's MPs. Now in all the municipalities where elections are held, it is ruthlessly promised, they are mostly false pre-election promises, and the way money has been spent so far is that certain municipalities have not received 10% of the quality projects that have been applied to the Fund, and some municipalities that have not even had projects have received certain funds. It was done without projects, without priorities, simply, the will of a small number of people. Now we have had the opportunity to hear, the only elections that are set in the AP Vojvodina, they are in the municipality of Odzak, which are scheduled for January 24th. What is interesting, Mrs Dragutinovic, is that the DS in that municipality has never been in power. Now they're going to try all kinds of ways to fool our citizens, that there's going to be gasification, that they're going to swindle all the roads, and I'm saying that we already have projects in the Fund for three billion dinars. I am convinced that the citizens of our community will know that they recognize it, that they will not fall for false promises and that what was recognizable in our midst, that they believed the truth, not lies. It will certainly be after these elections, regardless of what you are already doing, but because of the time we will have opportunities, and it is very important that Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Bajatovic, who has directly influenced the upcoming election. We'll have the opportunity to present to the general public how you win the election and what you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33942	The election and amendments are not directly related. The word is Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33943	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Prelyco, you are absolutely right only in one part of your presentation, that the money from that fund will be distributed exclusively to those municipalities in which the DS is in power in Vojvodina, because DS is in Vojvodina in all municipalities in power, so you have no problem with that statement. Of the 44 municipalities, in all 44 is DS in power, and in Odzaci will be 45th already on January 24th. You didn't do anything wrong. Everything else you've said has nothing to do with the agenda point, but if you've already spoken like this, it's your turn to respond in a similar way. I know you can't change the people, because the people are impossible to change. Try to change yourself at least a little, because it's not the citizens' fault because they vote for the DS, because they recognize a quality political programme, quality political ideas, recognize fulfilled promises, and look at your election results backwards in Serbia's cities where you came out. In Leposaviæ, you did not pass the censorship in the first round, so you had to write complaints and go to the second round. In Vranjska Banja, the census for you is a mental noun, you have not crossed the Vozdovec census. I would consider what happened in Književec, and I would remind myself of some other municipalities in Serbia. If you are already talking and performing, I would ask you to be nice here with the secretary of the Serbian Parliament, Mr. Veljko Odalovic, expand this balcony here, where NGOs are watching the session of the Assembly, because you will be able to see the Serbian Parliament only on the postcard and only from the balcony, when Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic invites you to attend the sessions as an NGO. Don't do that rhetoric, it's not good. Go back to the agenda theme. Don't insult DS, don't insult those citizens who vote for DS. No one here, Mr. Flea, cheats. The DS has high-quality political ideas, a quality political program, and I think I've said enough, and I've convinced you not to answer for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33944	Gentlemen, I would like to ask you to return to the contents of the agenda. Replica, Mr. Dobrislav Prelic, but let's really move to work on the amendments afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33945	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you just violated the Rules of Procedure when you warned me not to follow the agenda. In the presentation of the previous Mr. Milivojevic, you never once warned him, and he did not absolutely stick to the agenda. Okay, Mr. Milivojevic, I didn't talk about Kruševec where you came from, I was talking about the Odjak municipality, and for your information, in the municipality of Odjak, the DS has never been in power since the introduction of the multi-party system. She was also not in power in the Apatin municipality ever. Ask around. Don't judge the citizens' will, because the previous elections have clearly shown, when it comes to DS, what the citizens think of the Odjaks municipality. You won, Mr. Milivojevic, 20% and SRS 47%. Unlike us and you, Mr. Milivojevic, we had one simple campaign. We don't have any money like you to give away all kinds of packages. This has proved now in the campaign, when, above all, Bojan Pajtic, Mr Milivojevic, no longer trusts in you from here, from downtown Belgrade, because in all previous elections in the municipality of Odjac were attended by Bozidar Djelic, Oliver Dulic, Mr Petrovic, etc. And you've never been able to cross 20%. Unlike you, we don't have any money, but the truth is behind us. Our campaign comes down to printing these 80-dollar flyers, but that's enough for our citizens, because here's the truth about what we've done in the last five years. Rest assured, you need to ask a little bit about the structure of the people who represent the DS in that environment, to see that simply and what we were recognizable about and what our campaigns were about, those were real promises and we kept it to our citizens. Be assured that what Bojan Pajtic did yesterday in Bačka Gračac, too, believe me, he doesn't even know where Bucky Gračac is. Yesterday, two houses were assigned keys. You've had a chance to hear it, and in the past five years, the SRS has formed four refugee settlements, where the entire infrastructure has been brought into 96 housing units and don't say anything that isn't true. This even suits us, because the citizens will know that they recognize it. Mr. Milivojevic, talk about Kruševec, don't talk about the Ojacs, or at least ask around.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33946	According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33947	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the amendment submitted by Mr Prelic is very effective and should be accepted. Mr. Milivojevic, there is a huge difference between you and a member of the SRS. We have an ideology -- we love our party. We go to the election – whatever the result, we accept it. We won't change the people, our people are very good. And what do you do? In 2003 you were on the "Resistance" list and when you did not cross the censorship – you changed the party. We in the SRS will never do that. We're here, regardless of the election results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33948	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Milenkovic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) He has the word Mr. Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the purpose of the amendment is to reduce the volume of funds to the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister in economic classifications that involve services under contract by 10.5 million dinars, with a proposal to re-route this amount to subsidies to private enterprises, and for the purpose of economic recovery of our country. The government has rejected this amendment, and by nature we have a logical question – what are these services under contract as an economic classification that exists in all ministries, but also in other budget users. This was a devastating way for the Serbian government to show the DRI report through one-third of the budget's control -- a series of irregularities, law violations, haughtiness, wastefulness, irresponsibility and carelessness for the state and citizens of Serbia. The epilogue of all of this is defeating all of us as the society in which we live – the withdrawal from the assembly procedure of the 2008 final account proposal, the mild criticism of the bulk ministers, the witty threat of punishment by the president of the Republic of Serbia and the fight of the same national money ministers in the 2010 budget. What happened in spending the remaining two-thirds of the budget that wasn't controlled, we can only ask ourselves, but the government did so. technical corrections, she ironed something, she hid something, and now they think everything's okay. Furthermore, all that happened years ago, when we remained deprived of the final accounts, now we can only speculate, but be sure that we will eventually come into possession of that data, because Serbian citizens want to hear everything. They want to know the truth. They've had enough lies, they've had enough unfulfilled election promises, and that's why Vojislav Seselj comes to Serbia. The government rejected the amendment because its adoption allegedly would make it impossible for the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic to work, although 18 million dinars remain for those services under the contract. This has shown that the government does not want to prevent uncontrollably spilling of citizens' budget money on the basis of various contracts, starting with the cabinets of the prime minister, the president of the Republic, through ministerial cabinets to various pest services, offices, commissions, funds and agencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33950	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs Dimitrijevic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33951	Ladies and gentlemen, whenever the budget or the rebalancing of its objections is adopted, the SRS shows the way of the amendments, and our amendments mainly relate to the reduction of defined amounts of funds for services under contract, specialised services and other costs. If we were right, he also showed a report by the State Auditor, who has just recorded a lot of irregularities, which is proof that these items are extremely suitable for different abuses. Thus, Mr Ljubisa Petkovic submitted this amendment to Article 7 and proposed a reduction of the planned amount of funds in the economic classification 423 – services under contract, otherwise, in the case of division III, Government, Chapter 3.1, cabinet of the Prime Minister. With his amendment, Mr. Petkovic expressed his dissatisfaction with spending money in a dubious way by the ruling structure and also wanted to point out a request that the association of retired Serbian sub-offices addressed the SRS parliamentary club and addressed the application to Mr. Ljubisa Petkovic. It is about the reconciliation of the achievements and the unmistakable obligations towards the users of military pensions. According to the information available to this association, debts have been incurred because the funds are intended for this purpose for non-purpose consumption. Based on the damages to this debt, 1,300 lawsuits have been completed, and already money has been removed from the fund's account by a court order and paid to the damaged. Although, based on this debt, there are about 20,000 lawsuits in court. All court disputes, it is clear, bear with them the costs that will have to be paid out of the budget, which are costs that could be avoided if these debts were paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33952	To Article 7. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33953	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we all agree, even Madam Minister, that in the time of the global economic crisis, the state needs to save. It seems to me that many of the members of the government accept this savings more declaredly and God forbid someone pointing a finger at their cabinets, their agencies and their administrations. Today we have the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for the area of European integration. We also have a ministry that also has its own office for the field of European integration and the same man is the minister and vice president of the government, I just don't know if he's getting two salaries since he's working two jobs. Božidar Djelic needs help, there were few 10-11 million, the man is poor, he needs to be given two jobs. We have the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development, and the ministry, with similar powers, already exists, the same man is Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, Mladjan Dinkic. There are two cabinets. I ask the question – is there two salaries? We have the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Policy. I can't blame Mr. Krkobic for anything. So far, he's not a minister. We'll see how it ends. However, before I move on to the cabinet of the first Deputy Prime Minister, to read only one piece, if the list is taken and only a little budget is taken and we see what we are spending the money of Serbian citizens and we are borrowing them and the budget, we have the Office for Media Cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Serbia - 67 million, so we have the Office for European Integration, we have the Deputy Prime Minister, and now we have the Ministry, and now we have an office that spends 113 million. We also have a staff management service – 87,588 thousand, and we also have the Department of Joint Affairs. Why can't it go through one organ? Then we have a Council for decentralisation of Serbia to spend 24 million and 400,000. We have the Public Debt Administration. Looks to me like someone mentioned the vault management. We have the Agrarian Payments Authority, three administrations. Well, then we've got a management directorate of the seized property. Do we have a Republic Property Directorate? We do. So what are we gonna spend 56 million on these? Well then, we have a Directorate for Reference and National Laboratorys - 31 million. Well then we have, the Privatisation Agency will spend on behalf of specialized services 277.5 million. What are the effects of this agency? The effects are that privatisation in Serbia has failed in the last nine years. It's the only effect. And now we have to reward more of them, they've charged all those fees on failed privatisations. Then we have the Environmental Protection Agency, which, apart from salaries and follow-up expenses, has no single subsidy or donation to, say, build regional dumps. Then we have a environmental fund, which is nothing but pay. Then we have the Republic Institute for Information and the Internet. Now, I'd like to ask the government gentlemen if they can pick up a copy of the citizen's birth certificate or a copy of the birth certificate from anywhere in the territory of the Republic of Serbia or just where they're registered? But it's important that we have a Bureau. Then we have the Foreign Investment and Export Aid Agency 306,767,000. I would like to know what these gentlemen are doing and whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if it already has the Agency, has been thinking about subsidising exporters, but to be governed by the law. So, for this and that kind of finished product, not a semi-product, not a transge-fange, as it was with Miodrag Kostic's sugar, it will get so much money if you export it from the Republic of Serbia. It's not there. The important thing is that we have an agency. My colleagues are going to talk a little bit more about what the references of the people who work at the agency are. Then we have the Energy Efficiency Agency. And now if we take the paper and add up all this crap, because I can't call it in any other way, they're going to spend 1,200,000. And then someone comes out and says, "Praise up, we're going to separate two billion to subsidize apartments for the whole state, and a dozen agencies spend that money." When it comes to the first Deputy Prime Minister, to whom this amendment applies, because I wanted all vice-presidents to have not one cabinet, but one, and that the amount they can spend in that one cabinet is equal to the amount spent by the Prime Minister's cabinet, because it must unite all areas and all ministries with its accompanying services, but since Mr. Ivica Dacic has two cabinets, one in the Ministry of Interior, one in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the first vice president, I would ask one question, you can freely treat as an MP – does he receive two salaries? The bottom line is that a large number of high-ranking MUP officials have been deployed to certain functions such as advisors, police directors' assistants and the like. Many of these people were sent to other jobs, although they kept their salary at the workplace at the time of the reference. Since they were directed, they have received a field supplement, and are not located in southern Serbia, receive travel expenses, receive diaries, and have received an apartment from the MUP in the place where they are directed. Since the Law on the MUP can only be addressed for six months, I am interested in how many members have been sent for more than six months, what revenue have they had on the basis of a field allowance and a daily daily during 2007 and 2008? What are the results of the organs they've been handling since they got here? I'd like Mr. Minister to answer this question, because it's a police abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-16-0.u33954	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Mrs Stojiljkovic, I thank you for your participation in the work today. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. To determine the exact number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, and there are working conditions. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic, please.
