ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15309	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs: Nenad Canak, Velimir Ilic, Milan Lapčević Radojko Obradović and Zeljko Tomic. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is in agreement with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the session to be attended by Marijana Karadzic, an assistant finance minister. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF EXPRIATION LAW (resuming in particular) The debate in particular continues with the debate on the amendment to Article 7 which was tabled by MP Đura Muchenski. The government and the Financial Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15310	Reporting on the basis of Article 88, paragraph 2. In my opinion, Article 88(2), which determines your obligations as chairman at the beginning of the session of the working day. You just said what MPs were prevented from attending the session, and that's where you mentioned the name of Nenada Chanka. The whole public in Serbia knows that he is not prevented from attending the session, but that he himself has prevented himself from applying to the "Great Brother" series. The man stopped himself, he wasn't stopped. Don't misinformed the people and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we're not that silly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15311	The MP has no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The MPs who are prevented from attending meetings of the National Assembly inform the National Assembly, or the National Assembly, of this in such a text, as well as of the National Assembly, the MP Nenad Canak, as well as all the other MPs who are today prevented from attending meetings of the National Assembly. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15312	At first, I'm going to point out Article 27, bottom second, but since it might seem a little complicated that the public doesn't know what it's all about, I'm going to refer to Article 138. Rules of Procedure, what is this really about? It is that the president of the National Assembly, chairing the bill, had to return the bill to the government and warn the government that the text of this bill must be illustrated in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In particular, that the explanation for individual solutions proposed to give this explanation, that this argument be complete, that this argument be normal and that the explanation be of that quality to rule out the possibility of any criminal prosecution. What's this about? Soon you will have the opportunity to listen to the explanation of the amendments to Article 14 of the proposal for this law. The text of Article 14 of the bill is a crime. Why crime? New attitude is inserted... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15313	People's MP, I warn you of Article 100(1), which says that the MP has the right to orally point to a violation of the actions of the President of the National Assembly, or the chairman, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, which he or she has done at the session of the National Assembly, which is in progress immediately after the injury you have done, which you have not done and you have committed the abuse of Article 1st position. I thank the People's MP, you have not acted in accordance with Article 1, Article 100, which gives you the right to speak. Does the applicant of the amendment to article 7, MP Đura Muchenski, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Đura Muchenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15314	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, citizens of Serbia, is the goal of my amendment, which I have submitted, is the balanced economic development of all municipalities in Serbia. How are we gonna do that? My amendment extends the reasons for the expropriation that already exist in Article 20 of this law despite the existing reasons for the expropriation of immovableity for education, health, culture, energy, municipal infrastructure, and for the development of industrial parks. What's this about? What are industrial parks? Industrial parks are land continents designed to carry out economic activity. They allow for the inflow of foreign investment, but also the activation of domestic investment, an increase in unemployment, and their establishment outside industrial centres reduces regional underdevelopment and inequality, fostering the development of economically undeveloped municipalities, and that is the point of my amendment. Industrial parks can be a lever of economic development, especially in cities and municipalities where industry is shut down. I would ask you to listen, I am aware that this amendment will cause different opinions, but I think it is very important both for all of us and for the citizens of Serbia. Industrial parks are normally founded on the edges of the settlement, where land is often owned by private property. This location is natural and logical because the utility of the industrial park...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15315	Two minutes. I thank the People's Parliament. Would you like to use the time of the parliamentary group? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15316	... binds to the municipal infrastructure of the site and thus reduces the cost of equipment of the industrial park, and the industrial potential is shifted outside the residential zone. The municipalities often have a problem getting this land into state property, due to the high price required for this land. By introducing the possibility of expropriation of land for this purpose, it gives a negotiating position to municipalities to obtain the land at a market but realistic and fair price. It is necessary to provide for real and fair compensation. I don't think anyone has a dilemma about that. But to avoid unreally high prices required by individuals. In my opinion and deep belief, this is a way not to damage an individual as owner of private property, but also to preserve public interest, and public interest is the economic development and standard of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is the point, municipalities that are underdeveloped or do not have attractive locations, which is the majority of municipalities in Serbia, must offer investors the most favourable conditions to get into their environment, which is a completely communally equipped land with all the accompanying facilities, in order to attract them and rent them. So they don't sell that land, it remains state property, but they lease it to an investor to develop their economic activity there. It is therefore necessary to enable the mechanism to establish and equip their industrial parks according to the modest means they have, thus developing their economic potential and creating new jobs. I'm going to give just one example of the importance of the industrial parks of a municipality, which is the municipality of Pecinci, which had no problem solving land ownership because it has an attractive location, but I want to stress the importance of an industrial park for the budget of a municipality. In 2001, the Municipality of Pecinci had a budget of 37 million dinars, I repeat, 37 million dinars, if I was wrong for a little while, I apologize. Last year, the budget was a billion and 300 million dinars. I think this is a big qualitative leap. They managed to bring 30 domestic and foreign companies to the 1600 ha working zone. State, i.e. We, like those who are part of the system that governs this country, must do two strategically important directions. First of all, it would have to give municipalities grants to equippment of municipal infrastructure in industrial parks, as the Czech Republic did. She co-financed 60% of the supply of utility infrastructure in industrial parks, and local self-government took part with 40%. As a result, 160,000 jobs were created from 1996 to 2007. Another major problem that needs to be solved is the complicated process of building facilities in Serbia that last for months. Investors won't have the patience to wait for licenses for months, months and months. If they are lost in the forest of paperwork, they will give up Serbia. Without these changes and without this amendment, we won't be able to take a quick step in the economic development that we need in these years of the economic crisis and this part of us, our burden that we ourselves have to do. There are dilemmas, but I don't think an individual's interest can be above the state's interest, because we don't live as an individual, we live as social groups according to certain rules. This is a struggle for a right to life and a right to property, but this is also a fight for a better life, where a man in his workplace can earn a decent profit for himself and his family and thus sustain them. I always try to get people and in the things I look at, I find what's good. Yesterday, in many of the discussions I have heard here, which have criticised certain provisions of this amendment, I have seen only the bad things. I don't think that's a good attitude, and we definitely differ in that political attitude. I am convinced that this is an amendment that can bring prosperity to this country, primarily that it can help municipalities that are underdeveloped, which have no attractive locations, which long and cry for jobs, and that I want to convince you, and also our government, and Mrs. Minister to accept this amendment, because I think that this will solve a big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15317	National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15318	At first, Mrs. Comic, in order to understand me better, so you don't make a mistake again, what I intend to say is that you didn't do it three seconds ago or two minutes ago, but you did it before this speaker came out for a pay phone. It's about an injury from Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, where you have simply since this morning, filled with hatred, anger, or any other emotional state with which you have come to the National Assembly session, treat the dignity of the National Assembly only within two minutes. In two minutes and one second, according to you, everything has been broken, everything has fallen apart and everything needs to be eliminated from the National Assembly, no matter what MP he is, no matter what the MP says from the pay phone. Please, I am distracting you, refrain from interpreting the dignity of the National Assembly and allowing MPs to publicly criticize what may be crime in the extreme case, because otherwise, I think in a few days to bring you the dolls of Miskovic, Bek, Gilas and others, so give them warnings, not to the people's MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15319	People's MP, there's no breach of article 104. It is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure that two minutes each applicant of the amendment shall be made available to explain its amendment. Your request presented through an attempt to say that breaking the Rules of Procedure is when every speaker warns himself to do so is actually a request that some of us be subject to the rules without some of us being subject to the rules. There are no negotiations on the rules. Therefore, it is the application of the Rules of Procedure, which says that for the interpretation of the amendment, the MP has two minutes, after which he does not, can use the time of the parliamentary group if available or can speak within 15 minutes if he is an authorised representative or president of the parliamentary group. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milos Aligrudic. The DSS Group shall have 15 minutes at its disposal. As president of the parliamentary group - eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15320	There's got to be something to say about this amendment to Djura Muchensky. I think it's a very bad amendment. It's as bad as the whole law. He brought it out here, you seem to have agreed, you told unfortunate Djury Muchensky to submit such an amendment to go one step further than your idea in the bill, and your idea is to step... (President: I ask the People's MPs not to earn and not to interfere with the speaker during the presentation. Now you're bothering me because you're interrupting me. (President: National MP, it is not whether I bother you, it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You're bothering me because you're talking over a microphone, and nobody hears what they're saying. Please, the chairman, let me speak. Can you let me talk? Thank you. So this amendment goes one step further. I understand the reasons why they forced the government to expand the concept of public interest, to establish public interest in Article 20 of the basic law. I even agree with 90% of things, but, of course, the circle of expropriation users is expanding. After a system that I called yesterday with a dog that chases its tail and will eventually be caught, by education or by the introduction of an establishment of a company, in the way it is formed here, through potential satisfaction and private interest in the form of a joint investment contract, there can be an extremely accessible way to benefit from private interest, and the only one who will actually assess the realisation of public interest, in particular, will be the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the same government can conclude a joint investment agreement with certain economic operators and draw the right to establish public interest from its obligation to settle a non-financial part of the stakes. It's a complete disaster. This amendment means ten steps further – it is found that public interest can be established for industrial parks. What do you suggest - the state industry, the time of socialism, the state socialism? What do you want to introduce with this amendment, Mr. Muchenski? How do you think it can exist in life? Expropriation is an institution under the Constitution, which is exceptional, implemented by law and represents an exceptional limitation of property. The fact that there is a fee that must naturally be marketable does not fundamentally change things. The fee paid to people for the expunged property must be a market fee because it is only fair, but by the administrative act of the state, people are forced to take away property on their property or their land, which would otherwise not have been done without that administrative act. Why? Because the state has established public interest. Now you're telling me that production in the state of Serbia is a public interest, so whenever someone comes up with something to produce, the state can create a complex of an industrial park, make an expropriation, and then, as you say, imaginably leases various private faces to do whatever they want from industrial production on those surfaces. What about property rights? That's the logic of the whole law. You just ran a few steps away. The logic of this whole bill is – to limit property rights more than to the extent to which the state has the right to do so. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15321	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is 18 minutes. The People's MP, Đura Muchenski, is seeking the right to replication. I have already given the word to MP Dragan Stevanovic. Only if there's a collegiate agreement? The emissary accepts. I thank you. There's a word from the People's Messenger Đura Muchenski. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15322	Dear Mr. Aligrudic and those others who may think so, I am aware that this amendment brings different views on solving the problem. So, the essence of the amendment is that expropriation creates an opportunity for negotiations and municipalities to establish a real price in the conversation with the owners, and this is just a possibility, a final one, and in this situation one does not get rich, selling his country by ten times the price. Another thing – what is our national interest? Is it our national interest to develop economic activity and improve citizens' standards? Is that a general interest? Is that an interest above the interest of an individual? That's what we're very different about, Mr. Aligrudic. I think in this situation, in which our country is now, we need to use all our resources together to do what's best, and our experience doesn't have to be the experience of the West or the Americas, or the East or Russia or China. We must, in our situation as we are – without enough money, do with our modest means what is best for everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15323	He has the word National MP Milos Aligrudic, right to replication, based on direct reference.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15324	You know, Mr. Martynski, ladies and gentlemen of the DS, for this story you'd find the best talker right now in China or North Korea. It's an extraordinary place where you can place ideas like this. People, it is of general interest to produce, the general interest is that society progresses – which is not a public interest. Therefore, in this law, if you have not heard, and has changed the term "general interest" into "public interest" and is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in a sense. It's not the general interest of the public. To distinguish those two concepts, that's exactly why this changes. Of course it's of general interest that we all live well. How do you think we live well, if you take private property for the sake of building an industrial complex, whose destiny you don't even know what it's going to be – which depends on a series of market conditions? If every production were linked to the word "industry", and every industry with the word "prosperity" and that gives a completely secure equation, then you wouldn't be wrong, but you'd be right, but that's not true. The market is a lottery and you want to equalise public interest in Serbia with the market lottery. How can he do that? That's what the government of the Republic of Serbia has already done in half and done with this bill, and you, as a matter of fact, are doing. That's why I said that if you ran ten steps further than all that was given here in the bill, wouldn't it, if your amendment hadn't been adopted, because I see that the government didn't accept it, it turned out that the government was moderate. No, neither you nor the Government of the RS are moderate. You step on one of the sanctities of our society, which is the right to private property. That's exactly what you're doing with this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15325	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. National MP Dragan Stevanovic sought and received the word and then exchanged three replicas between the MPs. I thank the People's MP for collectively allowing the replica to be clarified. Now he has the right to speak, because he's given the word, and after that you will receive the word, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15326	Only if I can ask how much time I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15327	The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is 18 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15328	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, not wanting to enter any discussion and controversy, here I will begin by addressing a colleague who has submitted this amendment. You see, Mr. Muchensky, the meaning of your amendment and perhaps your good intentions that you have translated into this amendment, and even the meaning of this whole law, is unthinking something else, something that has not been done in some proceedings before or before, which would create the preconditions that this law makes sense, that its application makes sense, and therefore your proposal that would eventually be incorporated into this law as a proposed amendment. Why am I saying this and how are we going to get to this story and this conclusion? Yesterday, SRS and opposition MPs expressed one suspicion and concerned about the government's definition of protecting the public interest, which is the essence and purpose of this law. I believe you'll agree with me that all these skeptics and suspicions are justified. The best evidence for that is, let's say, what Mr. Martinovic was saying yesterday and reading through an answer to an MP's question, where there was talk of receiving public officials, Deputy Prime Minister. I think that through this story is the best pictured of your definition – the definition of the government to protect the public interest. Let's move on. There is also an objective question – is the adoption of this law a public interest or is it an interest of some groups or individuals behind the scenes? There can be asked an objective question and that the law and everything concerning this law is questionable. That's why I'm saying it. Yesterday, it was even tried to place the SRS on the burden of harassing Ms. Dragutinovic, sitting here with us, because of her health condition, because she must participate in the debate. We're yesterday, I don't believe that because of that, something else has left us deprived of certain answers, that is, certain answers that she objectively couldn't give the answers to, because they don't concern her and are not from her portfolio. This leaves a veil of doubt over this law and this debate from yesterday and today. This law is addressed, connected and intertwined with the Law on Planning and Construction and it is a law that this country has not yet passed, new. This creates a basic and elemental problem. So I think that some of the answers we asked yesterday, we could get from Mr. Dulic, if he were here today. He says 20% of municipalities in Serbia only have spatial and planning documentation, i.e. strategic documents that can define the industrial parks you speak of, to define what is agricultural, what is building and what is other land. Until it gets 100%, or the remaining 80% of the municipalities – every debate on this topic is pointless. This law will only be able to be applied selectively, in organised municipalities – everything else in Serbia only represents a forest unedited in every sense, from catastra to planned, or urban documentation. Every story about industrial parks, agricultural land, market values gets its own senselessness because of this finding and because of this fact. In the view of the SRS, the only and first standard, the serious standard that this majority has recognised and wants to install into the legislative matter of this country, is the fact that you will disband congregations of municipalities that do not adopt their strategic and planning documentation within 18 months of the entry into force of the law on planning and construction. It's the only and first thing in the last nine years you've recognized as a serious standard, a standard that's in function of public interest. The SRS believes that the law is pointless, that the amendments are unthinkable because of this fact and the effect you want to achieve and which, as you imagine, all of this is in the public interest, seriously questioned. There's no public interest here, and it's obvious that both the law and everything that's delirious about the law has been brought and inspired in some other places and centres of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15329	The time at the disposal of the SRS parliamentary group is another 13 minutes. National MP Miroslav Markicevic, the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15330	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, Madam Minister, respected citizens of Serbia, fellow Muchenski, the ruling coalition MP, thank you most sincerely for coming out here to explain the purposes and motives of his initiative to submit such an amendment. If he hadn't explained to us this well what this is all about, maybe we wouldn't have paid this kind of attention to this law. Mr. Muchenski, this isn't 1946, not 1947, 1948, 1949, 1950. As you explained collectiveity, not even some individuals will increase the price 10 times, and do you know what one's grandfather means? Whoever won't sell it doesn't have a price for it. There's one more thing I can tell you, Mr. Muchensky, you didn't seem to be watching TV last night. You didn't look at a show dedicated to the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. One of his famous statements where he says -- Serbia is a sum of all of us individually. This individual you're talking about is Serbia, and the collectiveity of 1946, 1947 and 1948 has been doing what he did, taking away many citizens their property, their heritage, their inheritance, and since 2000 inn and selling these days. So, as a state, as a society, as a government, we haven't even returned their property to those citizens, and we're already preparing, as you explain here, the DS, that we're already taking some new property away from the citizens, on behalf of some public interest. Sir, wake up, this is 2009, the time of communism is over. Communism can be howled into various democratic forms and names, to see what we do in action. What you've suggested here, this is a disguised nationalisation and kidnapping of property to citizens you're preparing from the DS under the form of public interest of companies. We saw that movie in 1946. That's what one party did. In this country, thank God, there are many other parties such as New Serbia, which will oppose your aspirations, above all DS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15331	The remaining time available to the New Serbia parliamentary group is eight minutes. National MP Jovan Palalic. The time available for the DSS parliamentary group is 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15332	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is really necessary to discuss this amendment, which shows how the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the one hand extends the number of expropriation users, and, on the other hand, interprets the public interest in the broadest possible way possible, and, of course, under a declarative push for the development of local self-government. We are now in a position to violate the basic sacred right of property because of the industrial parks that every local self-government needs. Explosives, an immobilization is taken to form an industrial park in a local self-government space and thus enable private entities to form their own companies. Of course, like I said, everything under the idea of developing local self-government. A previous commitment by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which would and would allow, which is quite enough for local self-government to come into development, is forgotten. Yesterday I asked Mrs Dragutinović, what about laws that define public property, property of municipalities, property of cities, property of the province? These are laws that will allow local self-governments when their property is defined to just enter this process of forming industrial parks and thus create serious strategies for their economic development. So, the previous question is to fulfil the constitutional obligation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to pass laws, to transfer property to municipalities, and then they will be able to do so, not now to hijack private property and to, be careful, industrial parks, in addition to serious public interests such as building roads, building hospitals, building schools, now declaring as a public interest a private entity, an entrepreneur's desire to create his private company in one space. That's a serious problem. We are now in the widest, deepest way possible to enter the right property. This is the dangerous intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to expanding the rights of many expropriation users to participate in expropriation, we are now expanding the concept of public interest in the widest possible way. I suggest that the government accepts this amendment in no way, but to pass laws and say what municipal property is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15333	The People's Messenger Sava Tjocic has the word. The time available for the G17 parliamentary group plus is 28 minutes and 48 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15334	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I have come to you by amendment from my fellow Muchenski, as I come from the Municipality of Pećinci and I can tell you that this debate is not leading to anything. The opposition criticises the bill, and I think this is one of the better laws that can be implemented in practice. I will specifically tell you what happened with us, just one little remark on the amendment's motion. It is not the geographical advantage of the municipality of Pećinci, this land exists in the Caves before 2000, but I want it to say that there is an eight-year continuity of a responsible authority that is 2001/2002. In 2006 we offered land for free to foreign and domestic investors who recognized this comparative advantage of the municipality of Pećinci and as partners led to 300 million direct foreign investments. I don't know if there's any municipalities in Serbia that have had such success. In 2001, the budget of 15 million dinars, last year we realised a billion and 600 million. The result of all this is 42 km of built sewerage, gasification of the municipality, etc. I would say again specifically, applying to the practice of this law will enable the government, the state, local self-government to make concrete moves. We have terrible problems. Let's just talk about industrial parks where the complete paperwork is complete, from the general plan, the spatial plan, the development of plans, detailed regulation. Mr. Stevanović, let me just ask you what we're going to do with the corridor of Polish roads in areas that are state land, that don't need local self-government or state, and we have owners of land that don't accept, and in public debate they had objections, so they're not respected for the passage of roads, for the passage of infrastructure of every kind they don't accept expropriation at any cost? This law, these changes and additions will allow for a quality replacement, which they predict in a member who says the possibility of compensation for exploited land with adequate land in the immediate vicinity. No one will remain for loss, but I don't like this part of the debate where you say the interest of an individual above all, above all, of the state's interest, before the interests of the people. People, the public interest is the public interest, the interest of this people, the jobs are our interest, new investments, etc. I thank the government for this very good proposal, Ms. Minister and Parliament Group G17 plus will fully support this proposal for amending and supplementing the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15335	Right to replication, MP Dragan Stevanovic, based on direct reference. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15336	My colleague, I have not disputed the meaning of public interest, need or obligation at all, but I will draw your attention to the fact that you are from this pay phone from the point of view of a municipality that meets the conditions for this law to be applied, because you say you have a spatial plan, urban acts and all of the acts of the lower order that arise from it, but 20% of the municipalities in Serbia do not have it. That's what I'm talking about. It is true that it is not your fault from the Caves, and it is Belgrade's fault that after nine years, they remembered that in a law that has not yet adopted the fact or norm to force local self-governments to meet the preconditions that you have in your municipalities. I come from a municipality that also ended most of the spatial and planning and strategic documentation at the time of the SRS, and it's a much shorter way for us to apply this law whatever it is. Our interest is to apply it, because it is essential, public interest, jobs, development, etc. But what about 80% of the municipalities that don't have it? What about the fact that 80% of municipalities don't have a built-in consciousness to do that? What about the fact that two-thirds of the municipalities are collapsing and that they are only dealing with the shifts of local leadership because of the fact that the authorities are not participating in DS or because of the fact that they are in the power of the SRS. We are not dealing with essential things that represent public interest, we are wasting time on both the state and the citizens, not us, but the government in Serbia. It's nice to be able to, but I'm asking how much will this law be applicable to 80% of the municipalities? It was meant to provide for the preconditions to be implemented, that was the essence of my story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15337	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Milos Aligrudic and received word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15338	Thank you, Chairman. I think you've hurt Article 101(1). A Rules of Procedure that regulates the right to replication. It is not only that the right to replica exists when someone's name is mentioned, but when the presentation of the MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15339	The MP, an infringement of Article 101, which defines the right to give a replica, cannot be given, since the right to replication is the giving of words based on the replica of a discretionary right of the chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15340	Can I explain?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15341	There is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, nor can it be characterized as a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the President, that, listening carefully to the MPs, he assesses who has and who does not have the right to reply. You have the right to debate in particular on this amendment since you have the time left for you as a parliamentary group and you still have time as president of the parliamentary group. The second violation of the Rules of Procedure, Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15342	Article 27 regulates your right to take care of the respect of the Rules of Procedure. A little while ago, when I called to advertise a violation of the Rules of Procedure, what you should have done was that I had the right two minutes to talk about a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It says I have the right to speak for two minutes about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can't interrupt me, because in two minutes I have the right to explain why I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, and when I finish my two-minute exposure, then you can say that the Rules of Procedure is not hurt, so if I insist on talking about it again, as the Rules of Procedure say, you can not give me your word. You can certainly say, after my outstanding violation of the Rules of Procedure, that you explain it with your discretionary right which is why you do not want to give me the right to the replica and everything else, and you cannot interrupt me, you must allow me to speak my two minutes. I ask you to correct yourself by allowing me to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure in the next minute and 20 seconds, how many seconds I have left, and then back off and say there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and you can no longer give me a word on that basis after that, but you can't stop me from explaining what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15343	Parliamentarian, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are clear, a member of the Rules of Procedure who gives the chair the right to give words based on replication cannot be injured. So you can't at all get the word that you're talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure where the Rules of Procedure can't be hurt, because the chairman has a discretionary right to assess whether the right to replica is established or not. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to get word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15344	Basic Article 27, I gave a second argument a second argument, but now for entirely other reasons that arise from your words a moment ago. The possibility that the chairman has the arbitration right to decide whether or not he can give a replica does not come down to will. It seems to me that your actions, not letting me finish my thought and not allowing the right to reply, are in particular in this case of self-will, and I think that you are in violation of Rule 27 of this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15345	People's MP, say the same injury twice to the Rules of Procedure. I warn you that under article 100, the chairman is obliged to give you a warning in the event of such a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I remind you to read again the article of the 100th that regulates the giving of words, and by the violation of the Rules of Procedure and Article 101 which regulates the giving of words on the basis of the right to a replica, so that we are not forced to communicate with each other by giving a sentence. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15346	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I only wanted to take into account the controversy caused by the amendment of MP Đura Muchenski I say that the parliamentary majority in the voting day will not support this amendment, although we understand the motives of the MP, we understand the reasons why he believes that there is an interest in local self-government to ensure more efficient bringing in certain parts of private land for the construction of parks of industrial ones. But we also fully understand all legal inability to allow such an amendment to be accepted, and that is why I want to remove any suspicion that there is an intention to accept such an amendment. So there is no intention because we understand that it is legally impossible to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15347	National MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15348	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, my proposal is to withdraw this law, for the simple reason that it is completely anachron, which is completely decadent, which is not in line with the principles of the Council of Europe, which is in conflict with modern European legislation, whose basic axiom is the protection of private property. This law represents a kind of trap. For what? Because these administrative measures by the state from those times after World War II, agrarian reform, sequestration, comassation, nationalisation and last in a series of these measures are expropriations, if you wanted the expropriation, which must be kept in some segment, to be aligned with the principles of the Council of Europe, then it had to be absolutely restrictive. What's the trap? The term "general interest" is changed by the term "public interest". Let's deal with the Semantics. It's not the same. The general interest is the interest of all, the public interest is, you limit it here, even the interest of public enterprises, companies that form public enterprises, companies with majority state capital. There's a trap right there. It's going to be an individual's interest, a tycoon, an oligarch, a powerful man who, by the principle of "state-- that's me," they want to say that the public interest is, in fact, their interest. But they saw it alive. If this law comes into force, it will be seen what the right intention is to adopt a fully anachronous and completely unusable law. I'm gonna keep going, so I don't spend all my five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15349	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15350	Dear fellow Members of the People, Madam Chairman, I would like first of all to address you, in order to draw attention to you that if you already advocate respect for the Rules of Procedure, and you are constantly pointing out that as your orientation and that you are maintaining order in the Assembly, you are not selectively doing this, but that you are treating all MPs and all parliamentary groups alike. You have often been able to bring out or make 24 warnings to the MPs of the SRS, and now you have the basis of Article 100, even the obligation to avoid the warning to Mr Aligrudic. Of course, I don't stand for it, and I appreciate that you didn't do it, but you demonstrated that you could have done it and that you should have done it. You have a 100th member who simply binds you to it. You've also made a procedural mistake, because you haven't asked Mrs. Kolundji on what basis she's coming out for a pay phone, according to which amendment, or by amendment, whether according to the Rules of Procedure, which is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, or what her basis is. It's just a stenogram. Look at the stenogram and you'll see that you don't know what's the basis for going out for Mrs. Kolundji's pay phone. So, Pope and Mrs. Comic are always right, and she joins them on that throne and Mrs. Kolundzija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15351	National MPs, no selective approach. At a moment of unpleasantness for each parliament and for each chairman, when measures have been made, you will see with your insight into the stenogram that the MPs have twice been warned that by banging the inventory and parts of the body of inventory, they do not interfere with the speaker of the National Assembly, at the speaker of the National Assembly. So the clear oral warning has been given. The MPs consciously continued to break the Rules of Procedure, in order to interfere with the speaker who had received his word at that time. That's when the warning measure was given. You have entered the hall shortly after, or during the speaking, but you will see with your insight into the stenogram that there is no selective application of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, nor will there be. National MP Milos Aligrudic asked for the right to replication. National MP Dragan Todorovic throws out the bench. I just explained, but obviously you were distracted to listen to me. Therefore, the observation that, when giving notice, MPs who received warnings because they violate the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, defaminate the National Assembly, disrupt the speaker, and behave improperly and inappropriately, that the reminder is made. I said that's not true. The People's Parliament was not present, and I, in that case, first warned the MPs, as I also warned MP Milos Aligrudic, as I now warn MP Sulejman Spah to throw away, which is a violation of Article 104, that you have two warnings and that this moment is a warning to express the measure of confiscation of words. So each time before the measure is expressed, warn the MP that the measure will be made. Since MP Milos Aligrudic had not yet violated the Rules of Procedure, he was warned that a measure would be imposed, based on Article 100, if he continues to violate the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milos Aligrudic has the right to reply, based on a direct reference to the presentation of the national MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15352	Now you see how well it's estimated that I have the right to a replica, because I'm directly mentioned, which is just one of the basics. So, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I don't see why you took me as an example in a particular case when you wanted to protect the rights of the MPs of your MP group. How can you not see that this is not at all about whether or not I have violated the Rules of Procedure when reporting for a word? Mrs Pop-Lazic, I tried to explain the various motives, regardless of the same member of the law that covers most of the situations, in order to violate the Rules of Procedure on a completely different basis at any time, by the chairman, Mrs Pop-Lazic, to follow what is happening, by interpreting that I am reporting on the same basis, which is incorrect. She abused the Rules of Procedure, showed unprecedented passion and self-will, and warned me that any of my following behavior would be sanctioned by warning. That's what she did. Of course, it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. My example is not good for you, so you have to find someone else. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15353	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Excuse me, People's Messenger, that the exchange of replicas has a natural flow, the folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, right to replication, based on direct address.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15354	Mr. Aligrudic, you're absolutely right and you confirmed everything I said. There's no misunderstanding between you and me, there's only a misunderstanding between the chairman and us, but I'm talking about that there's no principled attitude and that it happened to be behind a pay phone, instead of you, someone from the SRS, that would have gone a lot worse than you've been. You had only the opportunity to convince the chairman again that he was wrong, and we would probably be taken from the word or perhaps that MP would have to be away from the session of the National Assembly. That's all I wanted to point to. Otherwise, I absolutely agree with your right to apply the right of the Rules of Procedure, or, as Mr. Todorovic says, to declare the lady chairman the Pope, he is always right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15355	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the parliamentary group Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15356	Mrs. Komic, I understand your sympathies with this blasphemy, but you have roughly hurt the Rules of Procedure three times without giving me the opportunity to point to these injuries immediately after the injury done to the Rules of Procedure. The first breach of the Rules of Procedure was when you gave Mrs Pop-Lazic a word to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which was shown earlier, although before it was spoken by Mr Vladan Batic, whose violation of the Rules of Procedure had not been shown at all. Then, I sought word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. You gave Mr. Aligrudic a word for the replica, and then again you gave Mrs. Pop-Lazic a word for the replica, uninterruptedly ignoring my request to get word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, I warn you that you have injured Article 100 of attitude 1 in which an injury to the chairman's actions can only be indicated immediately after the injury has been committed. You weren't told. You didn't warn the MP, and then you didn't give me your word right after the predecessors were presented, and I even had the right to, in some order, as president of the parliamentary group, get my first word on the injury of the Rules of Procedure if more MPs came forward. I ask you to carry out a self-punishment, that you punish yourself with one warning, so that you too may bear in mind that only the President can do the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, so you have provided for the Rules of Procedure. The MP can't, but the question arises who, as chairman, gives you a reminder of what you've done consciously, probably convinced you won't get any warning or any other kind of punishment. You already have vice presidents of the National Assembly sitting with two warnings beside you. Obviously, you're under the influence of those who help you run a bad session. And then I'm reporting for the amendment, so when this list of speakers is exhausted in the Rules of Procedure and in the replicas, I'd like to talk a little bit about the amendment. During this speech, the MPs of the SRS were intruding the speaker. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15357	There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. A circle of replica exchange is the right of the chairman to assess when it is best to close a circle of two, three, or four replicas for everyone to know what it is. I propose that the National Assembly make a statement on the remarks issued by MP Tomislav Nikolic in the day of the vote. Again, the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic came forward, right on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I warn Parliament Radica Jocic that the object that makes the sound brings out of the hall or puts it in the bag, otherwise she will be given a measure and other warnings and a measure of taking away words. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic and MPs who continue to strike the course of inventory and the production of mobile phone sounds, unworthy and inappropriate behaviour, demeaning the work of the National Assembly, I warn that if they continue with such behaviour, warnings will be made during the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic, for each of the MPs whom I see impertinently and unworthy of the speaker. I can read the names of the MPs who already have one or two warnings. I really warn you not to disrespect the National Assembly and not to insult all of us sitting here with impolite and unworthy behavior. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15358	Mrs. Comic, you have re-injured Article 100(1). You tried to prove to me that the Rules of Procedure allow you to assess the circle of replicas and, on that basis, to give a word until you estimate that the circle of replicas has been completed. Article 101 relating to replicas does not give you that right. If you've already wanted to establish that right, you've had changes to your Rules of Procedure these days... (President: I ask the MPs who hold a cell phone in the bench and play music during exposure to stop doing so. I ask MP Momir Markovic to check whether his cell phone is correct or that by accident... Thank you, People's Messenger. Go ahead, go ahead. I really ask you, Mrs. Komic, to apply the Rules of Procedure exclusively as it says in this book. What it is, I have accepted that I respect it, although it has been passed past the will of a large number of MPs. Don't go any further than that Rules of Procedure in making up some of your rights. So you have no right to step on the Rules of Procedure. 'I am grateful to you that you had the first courage to apply the Rules of Procedure to MPs who think this is a joke place, that this is a comfort for lost points, that this is a day hospital, except they don't hack, and not a relationship and don't scream, and yesterday someone brought heirs here, it was heard from phone signals. So please, I really have certain parliamentary sympathy for you. I think you are very good at applying the Rules of Procedure to the extent that you are allowed to do so. Don't go any further than that. You will have my support as long as you strictly apply the Rules of Procedure. (President: Two minutes. The moment you step out of the Rules of Procedure, you won't have my support either.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15359	Thank you. There is no violation of Article 27, which obliges me to take care of the order in the assembly session. Adhering to the order in the assembly session is also a careful listener to the presentation of all MPs, resulting in decisions on how and how I allow the exchange of replicas and by listening to the MPs, I estimate whether someone has the right to reply or not on the basis of article 100. In a stenogram, I would like to ask that in the day of the vote, the National Assembly be made aware of the objections made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, whether there were violations of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman. People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15360	Madam President, I believe that you are making an effort to protect all MPs, and therefore I ask you to listen carefully when the MPs who go out for this speaker speak, or what they say. He insulted all the people's messengers who spoke before him, saying that there was a blasphemy about this speaker. I'm sorry, I haven't seen any cat around here, I've seen Mr. Aligrudic, I've been at the pay phone, I guess we're people who speak completely articulated, rationally, and we haven't barked here, we haven't cried, we haven't swung. It was your turn to warn the MP. After that, he insulted the MPs again, I don't know who he meant, he said that there were some braids, I don't know, I really know how to knit, I can tie, I can hack, I can do everything, I can do all these jobs, my mother taught me, I can sew, well, if that's interesting. I didn't recognize myself personally. I didn't think he meant me. There are also men who probably know that the connection gobbles, why not, which is discrimination. Isn't it enough for that man that what the Committee on Gender Equality, as one reminder and a decision made at his session about his conduct then, specifically towards me, but here it is for all MPs. Again as he passed through the benches, that man said - don't eat... I assume you know what that means. A little bit of you, I think, depends on how the session will continue and how relations here in parliament will rule...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15361	Two minutes, thank you. In his presentation, the MP did not injure any of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. If he had, he would have been warned, like any other, first warned, and after the warning he would have been given a warning measure, if he insisted on violating the rules of the Rules of Procedure, which the MP Tomislav Nikolic did not do in his presentation. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? National MP Momir Markovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15362	Mrs. Comic, from now on, when you're in charge, the moment you sit in that seat, I'll take my phone out and put it in front of you to watch my phone, so it doesn't make any noises. It's the third time you've warned me about someone's phone sounds. I'd like you to stop doing that, because I'm starting to feel like I'm putting pressure on my personality.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15363	National MP, you have abused Article 100 of Position 1 which obliges you to, when you receive a word under Rule 100, say which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, in which way the chairman has injured the Rules of Procedure. I warn you now, before sentence, that the Rules of Procedure should not be misused. (Momir Markovic, from the scene: I apologize, I did not say.) ) The People's MP throws out the bench – I apologize, I did not say – the dignity of the MPs, Article 104. I ask that it enter the stenogram and this is the precedent on which we will be called, as a right and proof that the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic was right when she said that some MPs here have more rights than others. It's you, People's Messenger. Anyone else want a word? The 7th Amendment, with the correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. The government has proposed to reject two amendments that MPs Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic have jointly submitted to Article 7, which are covered by this amendment, by amendment to Article 7, with a correction. The Financial Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic. The DSS parliamentary group has 12 minutes at its disposal, as the time of the parliamentary group, and you have four minutes left as president of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15364	I've reported in as an applicant. This is, in fact, one amendment that was submitted by mistake in two separate texts, later the correction was combined. In the light of which the amendment was rejected, and one and the other, the argument is similar, it is the amendment of pages 2 and 5. Again, it is about changing Article 20 of the basic law, which speaks about determining the public interest and everything that can be brought into question of public interest. I said in earlier statements that we in principle have nothing against making a certain extension of the concept of public interest, because we realize that as it was so far in the text of the law, it would not be appropriate for certain needs of our society, of our country as a whole and for certain public interests to be realised. There have now been some new attitudes that talk about protecting the environment, protecting against accidents, building facilities for these needs. This is about obtaining the undeveloped land needed to move the settlement or part of the settlement, when it comes to the fact that public interest is determined for the expropriation of immovableity for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, etc., these are the new elements. In this regard, yesterday we had an amendment to a member of the law that is completely pointless, we asked to be deleted, because this new condition on the exploitation of mineral raw materials does not give any kind of precedent, on which basis a different right or a different form of compensation for the expropriation of such immobility, regardless of what part of the settlement is being displaced. What is controversial here was also disputed in Article 3. The bill, it's the introduction of expropriation users. (President: Two minutes. Are you going on? I will continue in front of the parliamentary group. This is about the user of expropriation, the company and here we have suggested that a new position be introduced and that the activity of a company must be a public interest activity. What made us ask for it, and why does the government think it's too high? I guess he thinks it's too high because in the context of determining the concept of public interest, when it's defined, it doesn't need to be particularly pointed out for a company, that it must have a public interest in its activity. We think on the contrary, precisely because of the other provisions of this law that can enable administrative transposition, because of the possibility of a company being sold over time, that it simply corrupts the basic intensity, which is why certain immovableities are expunged and that, later on, what was a public interest at the time of land assignment, i.e. expropriation and land allocation to implement the objective of expropriation, is later thrown out into one whole other purpose. This is about one additional sentence to prevent possible abuses in the future. If something in the eye seems superfluous, in a Semantic sense, it's not superfluous in the essential sense. If there is no fear that any of the private persons, perhaps the government would like to protect, will be damaged, if there is no fear of such things, then I do not see any reason why this amendment would not be accepted and I do not see any reason why the justification applies to the protection of the non-financial role in the contract, when it comes to the Republic, and that it is said that the non-money stake is the only and sufficient measure, especially when it comes to the fact that the plan's act must be brought. So we have to have a plan act. In order to secure a non-money stake based on expropriation, the contract is the basis for expropriation, but I find it insufficient to base it. How do you plan to implement anything on the ground, and it's about building objects without a plan? The plan's act, after all, has to be made. By separating these two conditions which, according to us, must be cumulative, disabling part of the expropriation, and exactly what we have warned about is that the expropriation is carried out for more important restrictions on property rights, not necessarily evil in the need of protection of public interest. I really ask you to accept this amendment to Article 7.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15365	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Finance Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. The government and the Finance Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. The government and the Finance Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Goran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15366	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, citizens of Serbia, I will try within these two minutes, as the ruling majority has assigned to us by the new Rules of Procedure for the interpretation of the amendments, in short to explain my amendment to Article 7(7). Proposal for an expropriation law, which refers specifically to the time limit for the implementation of the expropriation procedure. In fact, this member was scheduled by the government for about 90 days to execute this procedure and such a large period of time they justify the whole process of determining public interest, which is in fact composed of some two phases. The first stage is the time of processing of the proposal, in order to establish public interest, and the second phase is needed by the government to make a decision. Regardless of the argument given here, we believe that 90 days is too long and we suggest that it be a time of 30 days, in order for the procedure to be conducted more efficiently and faster, so as soon as possible, it will take about 30 days to start a administrative dispute after the government's decision was announced in the Official Messenger, which would mean that it would all last for 120 days. It is in itself a long period of time, especially as establishing public interest can be a very broad term, because as you know it can be the Republic, the AP and units of local self-government, therefore, cities, municipalities and even companies and other economic entities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15367	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15368	I'll take advantage of the MP's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15369	It's at your disposal for 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15370	Taking into account all this, it takes a long period of time for the government to determine whether or not there is no public interest, and all as we see it, the government is trying to explain that it is working on behalf of the citizens of Serbia and their European perspectives, and we are witnessing ourselves that in this European perspective our citizens will enter without their jobs, dignity, without honor, which has always been a feature for the citizens of Serbia. Normally, we're against one of these kind of bill in general. Also, I would like to point out another expropriation that is in place, it is an expropriation of the electoral will of Serbian citizens, because we are witnessing that in many municipalities in Serbia, where they have particularly worked in power, such as Zemun, Kraljev, Leskovac, municipalities in Kosovo, the practical end of electoral will is done, and all of this is done in the name of some public interest, in the name of Serbian citizens, and this time we want to point out that there is a very often some secret interest in an individual or a group of individuals, which means that we insist that we always open our eyes well before something is declared public interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15371	Anyone else want a word? Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 7th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Avramović. The government and the Finance Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger was taken as a measure. Does anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15372	All amendments to Article 7. The draft law amending and supplementing the Expropriation Act aims to establish some elemental order regarding the process of establishing that public interest. However, what is much more important and that all applicants of the amendments, except for this one amendment, which was luxuriant in nature with industrial villages and zones, aim to preserve the unimpeached human right, the right to property, the right to have a citizen in possession of his property, that no one interferes with him, and if someone enters his right of property to be most under control, with respect for human rights, because all of this is a struggle for respect of human rights. However, when the foreign factor forms a government, and domestic rich people help form such a government, we have these solutions, as in Article 7, in particular in Article 14. The bill, which Aligrudic and Palalic are likely to discuss more because it is the best amendment to this bill. The most convincingly best amendment. He aims, first of all, to prevent abuse, and what kind of abuse is this designed by those of the government? Because of the citizens and the public, I'm going to explain it on a very simple case. There are quantum markets in New Belgrade. There are 16 hectares of some immovableity, owned by the company "The Unity" from Apatino, interpret - Miskovic. It happened by once expropriating. In the existing Expropriation Act, there is a clear provision that has given rise to expropriation, so if, within some time, that land that has been expunged does not lead to purpose, which is why there is expropriation, then it goes to deexpropriation. If you put on short deadlines like this, then you're practically stalling deexpression. Just to remind you, you have entered into something that is the right of property that is an uncut right, and to remind you that there are no statutes of limitations, as there is no period of limitations for life, so there is no period of limitation for property. If you vote this way, I call on all lawyers, lawyers' chambers and all those who conduct the proceedings against the Bank of Intez, Miskovic and other oligarchs in this country to contact us, to deliver the documentation, to the public to understand this insidious DS operation. It is similar with the Belgrade City Construction Directorate, which, 20 and a few years ago, expunged some land, so it did not bring it in for purposes. Now I'm going back to what we talked about yesterday, which is why we got ugly, warning and getting out of here, who determines the public interest? How does the public interest determine? What's the public interest? You can privatize everything. In your case, it is possible for a public company to privatize, precisely because of the public interest of what his doll will be here in a few days. His secret interest that you don't show, and you know who financed it, how he financed it, and he showers three times a day. That's why we're talking. That's why. Lawyers, any documents you have, forward to the SRS parliamentary group. Let's finish, go with clean gloves, clear those accounts, see who's behind who. Why isn't the state taking care of state policy, but taking steps to help one man? He can't. His personal interest cannot be a public interest. He can't. Forbidden. It's forbidden in the Constitution. One man makes you change the law. 25 years ago, the Labour Relations Act was changed because of Dragan Nikolic, director of "May 1st" Piroth, because he had no university, so an alternative was given to school preparation. That's one remembered precedent in legal history. When you came, every law was precedentd. A private front is someone's personal interest. Someone who's taking you to Brussels to get Ollie Ren, Ollie the parchment government, and when you support all these amendments, of course you won't, and when all the amendments are passed, the Expropriation Act is mutilated. Why? Because the eighth session is over.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15373	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15374	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to Article 9. The draft law amending and supplementing the Expropriation Act seeks to halt the possibility of conducting an expropriation without an appropriate plan. According to this article, as proposed by the government, it turns out that it can, but does not have to own the plan act needed to be attached to the proposal for expropriation. According to the government's proposal, a copy of the joint investment contract is sufficient to obtain the immovableities necessary to secure the non-money role of the Republic of Serbia in a commercial society. Take away someone's property with compensation, so may it be on behalf of the State, it must absolutely be carried out in accordance with the regulations, not arbitraryly, as suggested by the Proposer in Article 9. So it turns out that if you don't have a document or a plan, then another one, if you don't have one, third one, as long as you don't have an expropriation. When I spoke about this law in principle debate, the Minister left me with one answer, which is how it is arranged and whether it is possible to expropriate land by private companies that use mineral raw materials for the purposes of their production and whether or not these companies have any rights prescribed by this law. Just to mention, the companies mentioned before the privatisation were in social property and expropriated private property for the purpose of expanding exploitation surfaces. All these companies have their own exploitation fields that represent the planned goal of expanding the area of exploitation in the future. But in that area are plots, buildings, forest areas, springs of water that are privately owned. Exploitation fields are mentioned in the Mining Act. I'm interested in who and how in this case to carry out the expropriations whether the principle of volunteering of the immovable property owners applies here to sell their property to private companies or by law, that property will be bought apart from the owner's will. Also, I note that Jelen Do, all three cementers and some other companies use mineral raw materials for their production, but they do not enter the category of legal entities mentioned in Article 8 of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15375	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Finance Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic and will use time at the disposal of the DSS parliamentary group president, four minutes. The time available to the parliamentary group is nine minutes away.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15376	This is about, as we have explained in the explanation, a completely incorrect provision of the law. Here is a five-year deadline for deexpropriation. In order to explain it a little bit better, I'll try to say it in these four minutes. In fact, expropriation is done in the public interest. Public interest is determined as stated in the law. This means, when it is found that there is a public interest, there is an expropriation. The public interest wouldn't exist, they wouldn't come up with an idea, it wouldn't have occurred to us if there was a public interest, if what is public interest we shouldn't do quickly. If what's of public interest we have to do for 150 years, then it's not a public interest. This is about a provision that first and foremost speaks of how an expropriation solution is annulled or amended, in case the conditions for cancellation or modification of the solution are met. That's what we people often call deexpropriation, because it gives the right to the former owner to recover his property, of course, it's one restitution, one vomit in the previous situation, compared to the fee that's been paid and everything else, there are certain rules as it seems. It's about protecting property rights. I repeat, someone who has entered the expropriation procedure without his will, which is the owner of the facility, he without his will enters the expropriation process, he has only the right to a fair, or now said market, fee. He, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which foresees only an exceptional limitation of property rights, has the right to his own property, has the right to his land, you do not know what is a specific object of expropriation, does not have to be an object, can be land. If this right is limited by setting a five-year pre-exclusive deadline from the date on which a settlement is made, that is to say, a compensation contract is concluded, that is total nonsense. You have a three-year deadline in which you have to start bringing in the purpose of the plot that is obtained by expropriation by the users of the expropriation, he doesn't do it, he doesn't perform the works, by you means, he loses his right to restitution within five years. Why? I'll tell you why. Because there are users of the expropriation that you are precalculating, which some SRS MPs have been talking about, who are asking you to protect from deexpropriation the next day. There's no other reason. What reason does it make you write something like this or stick to your letters you wrote for reasons of pure jurisprudence? Accept this amendment. Please accept it, it doesn't change anything. What nonsense you have written best says Article 36, the basic text, which you have not changed, and point 4. which says: "In the case of expropriation for the purpose of exploiting the mine treasure, the rightful solution on the expropriation will be annulled or amended in the sense of the position of the 3rd member if the user of the expropriation within six years of the eligibility of the decision on compensation, i.e. from the date of the conclusion of the compensation agreement, has not done much more preparatory and other work necessary for the exploitation of the mine". This is where you give a five-year general notice. What are you talking about here? How is this possible? You know, you here give a material condition to undo the solution to the user's expropriation. You're laughing at me, and you don't understand what I'm saying, and it's a big tragedy for all of us because this is about to be adopted. Put your head down a little bit. Think about what you're told here, that this is about us being absolutely right. The fact that you don't understand what you wrote and you can't read your own text and the text of the basic text of the law... (President: Four minutes. Nothing, then I'm going to the nine minutes left with my MP group. So, you don't understand yourself what you wrote and your smile is actually your personal shame, as assistant minister you shouldn't do that. So it's about you chasing the right of the former owner to undo the solution to restore your object and the obligation of the user to expropriate. These are two different entities, the user of expropriation uses exploited land and objects, and the owner of the facility is the one who has the right to return it to him unless it was brought to his purposes, my people. Don't give them any borderline conditions for five years. You're directly attacking property rights. What are you doing this for? There's no reason to set a five-year deadline for de-expropriation, on the side of whoever took the object. You can't do that. I ask you best to accept this amendment, because you will have no harm in accepting this amendment. By adopting the text of the law which will be unchanged in the form of how you proposed it has damage to our society, there is damage to every single person who lives and works and works in this order, we have damage as a state before international institutions and before the Council of Europe, whose conventions we have accepted and signed, we have damage in every respect. I hope I don't have to do this on my knees here, to accept this amendment, and I've already said why it's necessary to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15377	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. The time available for the DSS parliamentary group is seven minutes. As an applicant for the amendment, you have two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15378	Thank you, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister Dragutinovic, this is the essence of the adoption of this law, which is precisely Article 14, that everything that has been misdefined in the previous provisions of the law is, in fact, the crown of the protection of those for which this proposal on amendments and additions to the Expropriation Act is actually written. This Article 14 most directly violates the guaranteed right of property, the right of property for which all those who have fought for centuries – that each individual has the right to property, to be guaranteed and protected by all the highest legal acts in one country, and even if those rights are limited, such as the case of expropriation, now in the provision of Article 14 we see it. It is precisely the essence of the provisions in Article 3, which we talked about yesterday, where the number of users of expropriation is slowly introduced, where the number of users of expropriation that are actually private persons, with a desire to declare their private interest as a public interest, is right now in Article 14, where the right of previous owners of expropriated immovableity is limited so that in the event of the arrest of the intention, on the basis of which the expropriation was carried out, they have the right to seek deexpropriation within an unlimited period – this right is now fully narrowed down. Then you have proof that this is exactly the government's explanation – why this amendment refuses. So that argument is so general, so inaccurate, so illogical that it really leaves the widest possible doubt – why this member here is defined. Be careful, it explains: "The amendment cannot be accepted for the reason that the provision of Article 14. The bill provides protection of the rights and legal interests of the owners themselves." It's not, in any way, because this right is limited. Then it is said "as well as potential investors and provides efficiency in bringing intent". It's exactly the opposite. It doesn't exactly provide efficiency in bringing in intent, because now he's thinking that the right of former owners is limited to five years to seek deexpropriation, unburdened he can do this whole job or never do it. Thus, the contradiction and contradiction in this provision of the Law is best seen in Article 36 of the basic text of the Law, where it is even said: “That the right to deexpropriation can be sought if, within six years of the right of compensation, no deexpropriation is carried out.” So he's six years old, and his right here is limited to five years. So he didn't even have time to finish that take-in job in six years. It's a provision, so, which is completely unclear, which is contradictory, which deeply penetrates the rights of the property of our citizens, protects the slowly interests of those who make this law, and I want to say -- that this is a law that protects private interests, with the desire to be declared public interests. In that sense, this amendment, and I believe it will receive the broadest support, because these great problems and great abuses are being eliminated. I urge Minister Dragutinovic to accept this amendment on behalf of the government. I urge representatives and ruling coalitions and opposition to support this amendment in the voting day, in order to remove potential and possible abuses. It is best, as has already been said here – that this law, as a harmful law, which penetrates the deepest of property rights, is withdrawn from the congregation procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15379	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is five minutes. The DSS Group has five minutes left, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15380	Unlike those who defend their concept with silence, we from the SRS warn on time – yes, this is a central member of the complete Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Expropriation Act. This law will allow those in power to declare everything public interest. When they declare it a public interest, there is no longer any possibility of any protection. Here, very modest mention is made of urban and technical and planning documentation, which in every respect is the basis for beginning to think about expropriation. Let me remind both the MPs and the public next. In this concept of their amendments and additions to the Expropriation Act there is no room for the application of provisions 82, 83, 84 or 89, I do not know which member of the Law on Planning and Construction, where envisaged – the return of city building land to earlier owners, there is no, they do not think about it. There's a system here. The legislators of this law are only exposure, way, means, extended bat – whose, whose dolls are you going to look at here for months, which I'm going to set up? Those who have taken and do not know how much they have and have little, little, little – there is something else in Serbia that is not in their hands. When considering this, you need to bear in mind that if an earlier owner died four and a half years after the decision was made, then the heir appeared, and to get the solution that the heir has to pass for another two years – there is no right to report as successor. When inherited, what inherits – inherits, in fact, the “status of the former owner” because it has already been kidnapped by expropriation? In the event of a return, it is not a matter of baseless enrichment, but of the legality of expropriation, and you can declare everything public interest. This should also be added to the fact that there is a mixing that simply in mixed property can be some dependent enterprise, which was founded by a public company and that oligarch waits, lays down one two, three years or other variants, privatisation, so we can also take on these companies as public, which are engaged in activity – the exploitation of mineral raw materials, mines, etc. That's why we're going back to it – you're only giving the bracket, you're giving the frame, you're giving the shell that it's legal – it's not legal, it can't be legal. There is a difference between general interest and public interest. The public interest primarily insists on the state, the state jurisdiction, the state's business, and in general interest, actions and jobs that are unimaginable, which are essential for the life and work of citizens in a given area are potential. That's a huge difference. This way you confiscate, then confiscate further. Why immovableity is interesting in Serbia – due to future changes in mortgage records and trade. You didn't come up with that. They're the ones who are a little yellow, not very yellow, but a little yellow, and they're just thinking about how to make a fortune, a fortune, a fortune. You know how the value of our companies falls. What did you say the other day this honorary consul of Nicaragua? He says that by 2000 companies were not sold, but they were not worth anything, they were doing nothing, and then they had to invade the crisis headquarters, so Vlahovic's privatisation went...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15381	Time is five minutes. The time available for your parliamentary group has been used. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Pejcic. The government and the Finance Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15382	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, I hope you've healed and will pay attention to these sentences. Today, an amendment to the Expropriation Act is on the agenda. The Expropriation Act was passed in 1995 and we will all agree that it is indeed anachron, that it is written in another political environment, or already 14 years old, and that it has been overcome. In that sense, we expected you, Madam Minister, to pass a new law here, a new bill that will be agreed with the Constitution, which will be in line with constitutional principles and that MPs and opposition will discuss the new proposal. Since this is just the makeup of this law, you also said that there are three reasons why this law is being complemented. First of all, by extending the circle of users of expropriation, secondly, it is a complement to the provisions to determine the public interest and under three additions to the provision to compensate for exploited property. In that sense, I wrote the amendment, just taking this third reason you stated, and in Article 15, I suggested that paragraph 2 be deleted. Given the expansive properties, the funds are coming from the state budget, and we do not have a control mechanism for professional services that assesses the market value of certain properties, I have suggested that Article 15 delete attitude 2 and thus help the state, citizens of Serbia and improve this law. Since I'm running out of these two minutes, I'll be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15383	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Milos Aligrudic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15384	This is about one inconsistencies in the text, which if it's interpreted as I'm going to say, and can be interpreted that easily, then you're going to have some negative consequences for something called legal security and respect for the fact of legal traffic. I'd like to ask the assistant minister who's assisting Mrs. Secretary to listen a little bit, I think she'll be useful. So, in Article 1. The bill, I'm talking about a member of the 16th text of the law, is about the general principle of how the expropriation fee is determined. However, Article 16 separates practically two types of subjects depending on how the right to use on land occurred, this is about land, first of all. Then the former owner, within the meaning of Article 84, differs. The Law on Planning and Construction and Persons who have become users of construction land in state property within the meaning of Article 87. The law on planning and construction. It's actually about how the land use rights came about. What is lost from sight here, so one category is said not to have the right to market compensation, but only to valorise the invested assets and other things that have entered as some kind of real costs throughout the process, what separates those two categories of persons, in my opinion, is not correct, nor carried out consistently until the end. Why? Because in practice, in life, you have situations that are mostly like this. The land wasn't in traffic at the time, city building land, but the buildings did. Someone who had been assigned land to build a building earlier, who had become a land user on this basis for building buildings, he could certainly have sold the facility. In large cities and areas where there are lots of city building land, you have very often these cases. Traffic wasn't a limited matter, she was free all the time. When one object is repeatedly in traffic, it often changes land users. When someone has the cost of buying an object that you do not respect here, they also include the location of the facility, and the location of the building is given the location of the building plot, so that never in practice, in life, the purchase price for some buildings depends on the structure and quality of the building itself, but also on its location. It's clear to everyone. Therefore, if it can happen that the rights from the moment of land allocation, those first land allocations, were likely multiple times in traffic, and that each security maker obtained the right to use land, most often with property rights to the facility, although it does not have to be the right of property to be entered in land books, it can be based on the right to use, and otherwise, it has always come under market conditions. Now that you have one category of person for whom you may have the justification to treat it like this, combine it with another category of persons who can't formally show or prove the basis for the use of that land, you can't formally separate it from those of others to whom it relates, and they have not only real costs but they've obtained their right of use under market conditions, you can't disqualify them and then you can't separate them from these other persons, according to the Law of Planning and Construction. I think two things were possible here. It was possible or not to propose one such provision, to equalize these persons, which I know would bear certain problems, or you could otherwise amend the bill and separate these two categories of persons, regardless of not being separated by the Law on Planning and Construction. For reasons of correctness in legal traffic, for reasons of correctness of writing this text of the law, you could in this law, in principle of speciality, in relation to other regulations, single cases in principle of fairness, which the law can define, in order to treat these categories of persons differently in legal traffic. What you wrote here, I'm afraid, above all, is deeply unfair, regardless of what can be legally correct, but it is deeply unfair, and the job of the legislator is not only formal legally to make something right, but to be to the greatest extent and fair. I'm afraid this provision you've been recruiting isn't fundamentally fair.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15385	Anyone else want a word? MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The time available for the New Serbia parliamentary group is eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15386	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, chairman, amendments submitted by DSS MPs Milos Aligrudic and Mr Petkovic are extremely correct. They were written in such a way that it was absolutely necessary to accept them. I think that the whole, legally clear explanation and when we look at all these amendments that were behind us, it is clear that things are not completely clear when it comes to this law that the government has passed, because the citizens of Serbia, the titles of absolute rights, property rights, individuals, will certainly be damaged. We have seen that there have been amendments here where even industrial parks are offered and it is very dangerous to be of public interest, we have seen what differences between general and public interest are used so that one fama is practically in society, that everything that will be done is in this public interest, but it is forgotten about individualization, what is actually property, what is the right that is absolutely property law, which is both inviolable and which is practically one right guaranteed by the Constitution. That's why it's completely unclear how this is going to reflect, but time is going to show. All of these forms, first of all, of public interest, are practically trying to convalve through a single picture of how it should all be and that's something that will help the state. I repeat, he must not be touched in private property. We've seen a number of amendments here that, as I said, have been submitted to the DSS. There was room to be accepted, especially this amendment by Mr Aligrudic, which clearly speaks about the purpose and speaks of a lot of what will be unclear. You can't build from the municipalities of central government exposure. You can't pass laws that only individuals will benefit greatly from. In the debate in principle, the NS MPs have now made it clear in detail that there will be a huge incorrect difference, that people who own private property will be safely damaged by the application of this law, for the simple reason that such a country will be made which will be declared a public interest, will be extremely damaged by the price and that later, as proposed by some industrial parks or some mergers, will be much more valuable to the country than when they sold the country, and everything under public interest. Once again, it will be very incorrect for individuals if this law applies. It was much more correct both during the arondation and during some nationalization than it would be when this law was passed. This law is not good. I think it is very correct that the legislator agrees with the real situation, with the real situation, with real life, because it will be extremely difficult, as Mr. Aligrudic said, when some people are due to inherit something, and already in the desert solution have not appeared, and you know that in such situations it is correct that those who have the right, not correctly, but simply so, the law states that they are the bearers and the rights and obligations of the one they inherit, and the additional solutions in the courts, are certainly able to achieve this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15387	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. The government and the Finance Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Dragan Shormaz. The time available to the DSS parliamentary group is two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15388	And this amendment, in my opinion, was supposed to be accepted, but fine. We're trying to fix this very bad law with these amendments. The best would be, as has already been suggested by several MPs from different parliamentary groups, that the whole law be withdrawn and re-worked in a much more correct way, and that much more respect be given to private property as a sanctity of civilised society, a civilizational sanctity, the only one we have throughout the world spread. Namely, this member of the law speaks of public enterprises and their dependent companies and their engagement. This solution is completely unnecessary, which is why I have suggested that the whole member be deleted because the process of establishing public interest is certainly urgent, and the dependent company can always be uninterrupted, so some public enterprise can always report and appear in such a business, so that this member of the law is completely excess. What I want to say in these 30 seconds is that I am surprised that such a law and such a solution will be supported by MPs and I hope not, because then it will show that ideology is not even important to them, but just sitting in power and that they do not have the ideology and politics MPs SPO and G17 plus, because it is still about parties that belong to the right center, G17 plus, as we do from the DSS in IPP. To talk, to contact people from people's parties in Europe to see if they would support such a solution. They would certainly criticise him and certainly not support him, because it was something that was done in the mid-20th century in communist, socialist countries, and it is not appropriate for parties belonging to the national or conservative parties of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15389	Anyone else want one? No, I don't. ) The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic, the Government and the Committee on Finance, proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is submitted to the amendment, MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15390	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the amendment that we have submitted, we are seeking to remove the views of Articles 4 and 5 of the 21st of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Expropriation Act. We believe that in this way, at least part of it would be prevented from demeaning, playing out the concept of expropriation, which should by no means mean a mechanism to gain some other private interest. Even if all the DSS amendments were accepted, I'm not sure playing this idea would prevent it. We, through the submission of the amendments themselves and through discussions on the amendments themselves, have negatively defined ourselves according to the expansion of the circle of expropriation users. I would like to remind that the users of the expropriation, besides the Republic of Serbia and the AP, are cities, the city of Belgrade, municipalities, public funds and companies that form public enterprises. We believe that by spreading the circle of users of expropriation and these faces, there is a situation that all these users can demand that one person give up one of his private rights and that is exactly what we see as a possibility for many abuses. It is also not clear to us either the way or the principle that the promoter had in mind when he expanded the circle of expropriation users and that is one of the basic reasons why we, in addition to all the other objections to the law, cannot support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15391	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. We have completed a search of the bill in particular. Does the representative of Proposer Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want the final word? The word has Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15392	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, based on a two-day debate on details and previous debates in principle, what you have most criticised is the standard of this law, that this law is strongly deviating from international practice, justice, which in itself is easily criticised, and the possibility of abuse. What probably went through your discussions most is that this is a completely unstandard law. Yesterday, however, there was also a debate on details, about a law that is completely standard. I'd like two sentences to say about this law. A draft law on the prevention of money laundering and on the financing of terrorism has been criticised, although it is not a law that we wanted to look like the EU, it is a law that literally applies in this form, literally with those obligations of lawyers, 108 countries that have the law. So if there's any law that's done according to international standards, according to the departments, it was that law, so you criticized it. As far as this law is concerned, I would say that it is not disputed what has been carried out from your discussions, that it is better to have finished public property laws, the restitution of nationalisation, and therefore I ask you to understand this law as it is, and that it is a transitional law, and that after the adoption of these laws, the law on public property and restitution, will be amended and this law. So this is a temporary law. That would be my final word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15393	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide on the bill, in principle, details and generality in the day of the vote. We move to the 12th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pores Procedure and Tax Administration (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Dragan Stevanović, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Milorad Buha, Dragan Zivkov, Marina Toman, Tomislav Ljubenović, Boris Aleksic, Marko Milenković, Natasa Jovanovic, Dejan Mirović and Mirko Munjic, as well as the Government. In writing, the Government withdrew the amendment to Article 29. The bill, which was submitted on 27 November 2008. You received a report from the Finance Committee, with a correction, and a report from the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15394	On behalf of the SRS, first of all, I will say a few words in general, as an authorised representative of the SRS, and then, although you have told me that you will accept my amendment to Article 3, I will certainly say something in addition to it. In fact, we have tried to challenge this law in principle, referring to the fact that this is not an adequate response to the economic situation, the financial situation, the state of public finances in this country. We felt that the answers to these challenges, i.e. those problems we have today in Serbia, were definitely not even the least contained in the draft of this law. I agree with the fact that Serbia also has a tax indiscipline, as you have stated here, a poor tax culture, but definitely responsibility for such a finding lies on those who have been talking about European standards for eight or nine years, and at the same time do nothing to make public finances in the sphere and in general in the sphere of functioning of the state administration and all its segments, these standards at least begin to meet and define. In the debate on the previous law, I gave myself the right, on behalf of the SRS, to conclude that it is only to announce that a single measure, which represents a serious standard in the field of state administration, is defined through one law and, objectively, nothing more is as European standards or standards of serious and modern-developed states in the world, cannot be recognised in legislation that, as a government, you bring before MPs, or before the legislative body - the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, we believe that the key is to ensure the stability of public finances, to ensure public income and stabilise public expenditure. At least it's an administrative arrangement of the tax administration. To the extent that, and to stop decapitating, as you have defined and stated here, in the tax administration, it certainly is necessary and necessary, but the state of Serbia has a tax base problem, the state of Serbia has nowhere to collect taxes. Personally, I think that this country should put into function everything and scientific and every other capacity, to find a way to increase production, to increase exports, to structurally change imports, to create space to provide a basis for achieving VAT-based revenues, not that the government, in the process of thinking or announcing some budget rebalancing, is announcing as one of the measures an increase, possibly, in VAT rates, which is certainly not good. That's a few general words I wanted to say as a representative of the parliamentary group. I'll certainly use my time to discuss the amendments, if I may, convince Mrs. Minister to accept another amendment to the SRS. Let me say a few more words at all about the amendments. Conceptionally, the amendments followed what you proposed through this law. So, politically, we can't agree, but we've been following the concept of what you've proposed and I don't think there's any reason why you shouldn't accept any amendments. As far as you're going to be hearing, we're going to see it through the debate, but it seems to me that the amendments seem to seem completely meaningful and that there is no, I repeat, reason not to accept them. As regards my amendment, which I proposed to Article 3. The bill, as it says, predicted that in Article 24 after the word "tax administration" in the corresponding decline, I would add the words "and the tax department of the local self-government unit" to the corresponding decline, and in point 3, at the end of the sentence is replaced by a tight one and the words "or to the burden of the budget of local self-government units". Since the state finally, with Solomonic efforts, found a way to finally complete the process of defining the tax departments at local self-government levels, since certain tax revenues were defined to finally become local self-government revenues, the state also managed to define the tax department at local self-government levels. It's been going on in this country with more or less effort. I don't think in the good part of the local self-government it's still defined and doesn't work in one real and appropriate way. That's what I said in the principle debate. In 2008, the state took down twice the tender to provide the software package and the technical means to define and round these departments, and the only misery was finally done. What's also important for this part of the story is to say that the tax administration, what it passed on to local self-government, has passed on in a rather chaotic and unsettled state. The data is highly unsystematized and unscheduled. I said, no co-ordination of local authorities, cadastrian services and other competent state authorities has yet to be established, so, objectively, local self-government will take a long time to establish and raise all things to a level that matters or needs local self-government. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, since you have through the law provided that it will indicate that part of the income, which needs to be paid back to the taxpayers, will be returned from the Republic of Serbia's budget and you added that it will return from the budget of local self-government, then this amendment meant that everything the state wants through the law and wants to offer to the bonds through the law, by the tax administration, to that same obligation to the taxpayers have the same tax departments of local self-government units. That's where I wanted two things to be solved. On the one hand, to protect taxpayers and to ensure that everything they are interested in, any need they have in this sense and context, can be achieved in the tax department of local self-government, but on the other hand, I have forced the responsibility and urgency of local self-government authorities. It means, at the same time, two birds are killed with one blow. I think the amendment is completely meaningful. This reasoning for refusal I think is a little irrational and I don't think there's any reason you shouldn't accept this amendment. Thank you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15395	The word has Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15396	After reading, which is the ex post mind, well, the amendment of MP Dragan Stevanovic to Article 3 really contributes to the accuracy of the basic solution, according to the decadent tax department and units of local self-government and the budget of the unit of local self-government, which is why I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15397	On the basis of Article 27, given that the proposing representative has accepted the amendment, I would ask the chairman of the Finance Committee to consider the possibility to decide at the convened session of the Committee that the amendment adopted by the Government would become an integral part. Cellulities, if there is no such possibility, will then be declared by the Assembly in the voting day. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Proposal to add a new member. The government has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 4a be added after Article 4. The Finance Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 7th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15398	I accept the amendment of MP Lidija Dragutinovic on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15399	Thank you. Once again, on the basis of Article 27, I ask the chairman of the Finance Committee to consider the possibility to decide at the convened session on the amendment that Minister Diana Dragutinovic accepted on behalf of the government, so that it would become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Buh, the messenger of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15400	Ladies and gentlemen, I expect the same positive reaction from the minister, after these two, it's natural for the third to go. However, I must take a critical note not of acceptance, but of the overall proposal to amend and supplement the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration and the Ministry's relationship and all state services in this area. From the reasoning of the bill, we see what changes are going on. The legislator says it is an expansion of tax administration jobs, employment of new workers in this area. However, practice shows us that tendencies are completely opposite. In practical application of the legal provisions in the field of taxes and contributions, we have a stagnation and the Ministry of Finance and all other state bodies. Ten days ago, the director of the tax administration gave us the following information. He says, up until now, about 280 thousand companies have been registered in the register, active only about 112 thousand, about 40 percent. Of the 35,000 businessmen, there are 16 thousand active, again about 40 and some percentage, which suggests that according to the number of companies registered and other companies, entrepreneurs, only 40% are active. If it's said here in the law that it's the opposite of tendency, then there's someone out there who's not telling the truth without saying he's lying. If we see by the volume of traffic carried out in 2006, 2007 and 2008, then we see that the stagnation is in traffic. In tax terms, in nominal terms, financial indicators have seen increases, but financial volume transactions have been reduced. Tax authorities have far fewer obligations than in business 2005, 2006 and 2007. That's one thing. This argument referred to by the legislator does not stand. The concept of the law itself, as it was conceived in 2002, is very bad and as such it should experience transformation in terms of adapting to the modern legal conditions of norming the area. In this law you have installed a dozen, fifteen laws, you have broken out of certain legal regulations and inserted into this law, so that here we have provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, the Law on State Administration, the Law on State Servants and Peasants, the Labour Act, we have even provisions of some collective agreements that you have entered here. Any amendment to each legislative regulation will require a change of this law, which is inapplicable and harmful, irrational and in any case will be harmful to the state interest that a stop is being changed. I see this is the sixth or seventh amendment to this legislation. Every year we change, and what it clearly says about a technically poorly executed legal project. We should change it in a certain way and adapt it to the needs of practical application. In addition, we can see that there is a problem with the tax administration because of the low incomes of tax officials and officials. If we are witnessing the reform that the state has made since 2002 with this legal project and in 2003 with the introduction of VAT. We completed the reform in this area and had to finish in 2003, without saying in 2004 it had to be over. It's 2009, and we haven't lived up to everything that this reform had to bring. Why? Because the current government always stands at step two, does not take the third and eleventh steps it must take. The reform is not complete. We here, in reason, are calling for certain reform turns in this area, so it will bring us no reform. You have not brought the reform to an end, and what you are proposing to these legislations is not a reform, but it is only a adaptation to certain legal projects and an insane introduction of provisions, which is best spoken of by art. 23 and 24 of this draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which is so gross that it represents one of the largest laws in the entire domestic and possibly world legislation, and which should be corrected in a normative and legal sense immediately as it is adopted in this Parliament. We should be worried about economic and financial developments in the fourth quarter of last year, especially the first and second months of this year and the indicators that we receive from both the Ministry of Finance and the Government, especially from state statistics authorities. We need to see what's going on, why we're dropping production. Industrial production dropped 17% compared to January and February 2008. Besides, we're running out of other productions. We see that our financial revenues, which are elemental from VAT, have dropped about 30% compared to 2008. We have a 35% drop in imports, but analysts who deal with these issues say that the decline is mostly in the area of imports of repromation, which we need in any case concerned. Is the current government concerned? I don't think he's worried. We have a 25% drop in exports, we have a 15% drop in investments, does the current government have countermeasures to stop these negative flows? Is there anything to do with the Ministry of Finance, in terms of stopping such a negative trend in the area of production and revenue collection? State authorities, tax authorities are obliged to point out these negative trends to their indicators. We witnessed last year and here the SRS pointed to negative trends in control of large systems, particularly privatized large systems. Controls in large systems, especially in systems purchased by tycoons, we almost didn't have any. I ask the question of the Ministry of Finance – when did you exercise control of the tax inspection, budget inspection and some other tax authorities and other inspections, at Miskovic, at Bek, when you were in Sartide, saw their balance sheet there and carried out control? This is where I provided information on the control of the banking system. In 2008, a letter and number controlled 34 banks registered in 2008. In all 22 cases, a request was filed, one for a business offense and 21 applications for perceived illegality in the work of the banking system. I claim there are hundreds and thousands of them, but simply the state doesn't want to enter that system. Why? Because it's privatized, because it's the banks whose owners are the foreigners who brought the capital here, they've significantly increased the value of the dinar the moment they enter their foreign exchanges, buy those foreign exchanges, and then transfer them back to the banking system of the states where they came from. That's why there's an oscillation. You're aware of that, but you're not doing anything. That's why we have a terrible outflow from foreign reserve. The NBS sold on the foreign exchange market in the last quarter of 2008 a billion and 450m euros, only in the first two months of this year we sold 550m euros, solely for stabilising the course. Who bought those foreign exchanges? They bought out foreign banks, transferred to their home banks' accounts, from where they were formed. On the other hand, they were bought by tycoons, relocated abroad. What does the people of Serbia have to do with it? There's nothing. I took 11 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15401	The SRS parliamentary group is available for 58 minutes. Anybody else want a word? Yeah. ) There is a word from MP Dragan Stevanovic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15402	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, you said you didn't like this amendment. I claim that this amendment is essentially the concept of what you're proposing, regardless of what we're essentially against, but it doesn't come out of this at all, nor does it change the concept of this law. Here's why. You, for example, have said here in the light of the law that the amendments made by this member are intended to make the mandatory collection process more effective. That's what you put in the same explanation in which you refused this amendment. I can understand that your intention is to ensure that the process of realisation and security of public finances is effective, but sometimes criminal provisions shouldn't be seen as "aposteurs". Our intention with this criminal provision is to act preventively on the awareness of those who will participate in this public competition process. I agree that the deposit they deposit should not be returned to them, but if they enter the public tendering process with the assumption that inadmissibility and irresponsibility will be punished, efficiency will certainly rise to a higher level. You have to accept that. Here's an example for you. I haven't had a chance to get punished for not putting my seat belt in the car, but for the fines that are required, I'm bound when I'm seven in the car. People are very strange. They enter public procurement procedures for company purchases of not knowing how many tens of millions of dinars or a few million euros, and they're doing it from the whim, and they're willing to leave and lose their deposit, and that's why they're doing it, out of whims and spite. If you are truly defined that the efficiency of public finances at any level, whether local or national, is different, or to be sure, it seems to me that this criminal provision, or punishment of up to 5%, that is to say, by amendment as a preventive measure, will not undermine the efficiency of public finances.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15403	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. The word is from Minister Diana Dragutinovic, representative of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15404	I accept the amendment to article 18 submitted by Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15405	On the basis of Article 27, I would like the chairman of the Finance Committee to schedule a session to discuss the adoption of the amendment for the sake of consistency. Otherwise, in the voting day, the Assembly will declare itself. A letter from Marina Toman submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic, on behalf of the promoter, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15406	I also accept the amendment to article 19 that Marina Toman filed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15407	Thank you. The finance minister has accepted the amendment. On the basis of Article 27, I would once again ask the chairman of the Finance Committee to also consider a decision on the adoption of the amendment at the meeting of the Finance Committee. Does anyone want to talk about the amendment that the proposaler's representative accepted? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. The amendment remains under review because the Committee on Finance has not adopted the amendment, and the Assembly will declare in the voting day, unless the Finance Committee has scheduled a session and made its decisions to become an integral part of the draft law. If it had been done, then this would have already been an integral part of the bill. Here you go, and I'm sorry to keep you waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15408	Mrs. Comic, I am now informing you, given this weather as in that show "Hello," I'm going to say it once, because I have a little time. The Committee on Finance also considered amendments to this proposal for a law, and representatives of the promoters were present during the discussion. First, by all Committee members, the proposing representatives are asked to say which amendments they accept, and then they are distracted to do so in a clear and sound sense, so that some new session of the Finance Committee is not subsequently scheduled. A representative of the parliamentary majority in the Finance Committee was also most kindly asked to declare what the parliamentary majority would accept from the proposed amendments. At the previous session of the Finance Committee, when we were in a similar situation at your request, we later called for a session, and then the Finance Committee accepted, by majority of votes, amendments by the government in the meantime and then we concluded that we would no longer do so, but we are asking the Government for full responsibility to give its definitive assessment of each amendment in common with common sense. And by asking us to sit down again to discuss it, we are not able to do it, because we are bound by the Committee's conclusion. I'm not mad at you, but I'm taking the opportunity to inform you about what happened, how it happened and how we're going to do it in the future. Seriously. Now I'd like to talk a little bit about these amendments, of course within the time of the SRS parliamentary group. I hope you don't mind me answering. On the grounds of these two Articles 18 and 19, in the reasons for which these amendments are rejected, the Government has stated that amendments propose an increase of 20, as in the basic text of the law, or 30 as proposed by the Government, to 40 as proposed by these two amendments, that the first-degree tax authority should act in the re-processing procedure following the objections of the second-degree tax authority. When the government rejected those two amendments, she said - we are making changes in Articles 147 and 152. The law, in order to bring the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration into line with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. As for Article 18, there have been two changes in attitudes. In the first of these positions, the deadline was reduced, in the second deadline increased from 20 to 30 days. However, Mrs Dragutinovic, this is not your fault, to be clear, there is a mental error here in 2002, when it was first brought pro-European, best on the globe of the Earth, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. The promoter of that law was that Heidi, come on, come on, the one who came and didn't have a house to bite him for, now has 11.5 million founding capital in Meridian Bank. With him everything is euphoric, that there is Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I think she should look at something, because from time to time, there are some manic-depressive psychosiss that we wouldn't have to fight politically with in this way. What do I want to tell you? Mrs Dragutinović, when you return to the Ministry, find one of those older people who work at the Ministry, if not all of them are expelled, and ask them to regulate what is in Article 147, where the deadline is increased from 20 to 30 days, that the position should be eliminated, because Article 147 in one position and Article 152 in another position, which regulates the same matter, the time limit in which it is to be taken in a re-trial before the first-degreed authority, by acting on the observations of the second-degree tax authority, which has annulled the first-degreed solution, returned to the re-trial procedure of the first-degreed body and made objections, or indicated what everything should be removed in the re-processing process. That deadline can only be in one member, it can't be in two members. Why is he reporting here in two members? It comes out because the laws are now being written as a literary composition. Literally speaking as a literary composition. Lucky for us when he was Balinovac, he used more archaic terminology between 1929 and 1939, therefore, except etc. The laws have to be very precise, because in the Prgogrens, someone has to interpret what the author wanted to write and because of the text that the author writes it turns out that the entire Assembly is archaic. She's not archaic, she's very modern, which is what the DSS Justice would say. We're pursuing these integrations. As for the deadline, Mr. Stevanovic, who has been working amendments to this bill, has suggested that the deadline within which the first-degree authority will again decide on the second-degree's observations be increased from 20 days to 40 days. Why? Because it is possible, above all, to choke on a large number of cases and because of the fact that it is possible that, following the observations of the second-degree authority, a case-by-case investigation and the determination of some new facts which were not present in the first procedure, so whether that paper or re-examination of the taxpayer's business books is not relevant, but it is important that there is a reasonable reason to increase that period. Is it possible for the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act to increase, extend, shorten and otherwise define deadlines for individual procedural actions in relation to the General Administrative Procedure Act? It's possible. Why? Because it's a special law, a special law, and there's some specificity in it that's fitting and justifiable reason to set deadlines differently. So, as a matter of principle, the law changes, the necessity changes the rules. Mr. Buha tried to make you a parallel, to tell you how many economic operators there are. However, Mrs Dragutinović, we have some information today, we have sent you a letter to inform us of this, the Finance Committee sent you a letter on the DSS parliamentary group initiative, which I am talking about, it is said that 60,000 businesses have been blocked. We asked you to provide us with the data, and here, if you haven't been informed by yours, we're counting on getting that data by the end of next week, to see what caused the blockade, is that the blockade 50,000, 100,000, two million, two hundred million, which is why the company's accounts are blocked? In what part does this apply to unmistakable taxes, in which part does this apply to other matters? Of course, we need this to function normally and to see what the situation is, first of all, in public finances. Of course, I will use the time, since the new Pro-European Rules of Procedure allows us to conduct a principle debate on all amendments under the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15409	He won't allow it, People's Messenger. You need to stick to Article 103 and talk about the agenda. It is your right to use time, but in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15410	Look how I knew what to say, I only spent three seconds. I would draw your attention to a very important thing that has not been pointed out to you so far, I'm surprised that some parliamentary groups have not submitted amendments, and we don't feel that we have an obligation to only submit amendments, where there is some particular interest, to draw attention to ourselves, but that doesn't mean that every member needs to be given some amendment. In one of these members, the government is as a proposer of a period of limitations in tax claims, an absolute deadline, on, on, it's a good thing that you did it in law, that there wasn't even that deadline, it's a good thing you put in any deadline. However, it cannot be ten years as a general limitation period under the Law on Bond Relations. In the tax procedure, precisely because of this specificity and precisely because of the fact that it is, if I can say so, "the debt towards the state, the debt to the public services, the debt to the state authorities and everything that is financed on the basis of public income, everything that represents public expenditure", there would have to be a shorter deadline, probably six years, as in some countries. This deadline should not only be interpreted as a deadline in terms of the claim, but should also be interpreted as a time limit requiring the effectiveness of the tax authorities, because in tax matters, tax policies, it is a public-law relationship, not a bond relationship, it is not another, but a public-law relationship. He who performs, steps forward in the name of the state, in the form of the tax police, the tax administration, does public work for the state. Relations between the state and the individual where the tax is established, the tax obligation is a public-law relationship and it is therefore good and desirable for these deadlines to be shorter than those prescribed by the Law on Liaison.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15411	I ask the National Assembly's service in charge of the work of the Committee of the National Assembly to order the Secretary of the Finance Committee to provide me with a copy of the minutes, with a decision or conclusion of the Finance Committee that they do not wish to convene meetings in the event that the motionor, or a representative of the Prime Minister, changes his opinion on amendments that have been accepted, so he does not wish to discuss, in that case, the amendment he accepted and the motioner on the basis of Article 27. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment is an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 24th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been submitted by the amendment, MP Tomislav Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15412	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I have tabled an amendment to the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, I have submitted an amendment to Article 24. Article 24 provides that after Article 169, they shall add a title above the articles 169a to 169c. The amendment refers to Article 24, new Article 169b. The position of the 3rd member reads: "The public competitions are conducted by a competition commission appointed by the director of the tax administration. The commission has a president and two members, who may, if necessary, have deputies. "The amendment proposes to add the words "organising units" to Article 169b, in item 3, after the words "director". The Government has decided not to accept this amendment with the following explanation - the amendment is not accepted for the reason why a provision is proposed in accordance with Article 30(2). The State Administration Act, under which the Director solves administrative matters and decides on the rights and responsibilities of the Authority's employees. This amendment shows the intention to ensure decentralisation in the administrative sense. Organisational unit managers should be entrusted with both powers and responsibilities. When we talk about filling jobs in the IRS, it's basically the same thing. From which party is the director of the administration, the parties and the managers of the organisational units are from. Whoever makes the decision on who's going to be employed will be employed by one of his party staff. When we talk about professionalization at work, it is nevertheless decentralisation and providing the possibility of decisions being made... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... At a local level, something that will contribute to better quality organ work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15413	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Dragan Stevanovic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. You have the time available both as a representative and as a parliamentary group. As a representative of the parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15414	Madam Minister, as my colleague Tomislav Ljubenovic said, our intention through this amendment was to be this administrative decentralisation. When we analyzed what you suggested, brought to the Assembly, I spoke to the tax administration people and, as far as I'm aware, there are four organisational units at the level of the Republic of Serbia. Those tax administration organizations have their own directors, so at least they said, I believe them. Our intention through this amendment was essentially this administrative decentralisation. The law said in general that the commission would be elected by the director of the tax administration, and then, in principle, only as one administrative body, the commission would collect competitive documentation and, again, the discretionary right of the director to decide on it. I don't know what they are or exactly the needs of the tax administration for this decapitation, how many workers will be needed, but I don't think it's grateful that only one man decides that, in this case, the director of the tax administration. I felt it would be appropriate, on behalf of the SRS, to say workers in the Tax Administration, departments or branches in Leskovac, Sjenica, in Odzac, not only decides on the director in Belgrade, but also on the directors of the organisational units to which these branches and departments of the tax administrations belong. The SRS believes that the state has never been more centralised financially and then I believe that this procedure is either a kind or a way of decentralisation. I will also use, in favour of this finding, that the state is financially centralized. I once asked that question to your ministry. I'd like to, if you can do it now, or find it appropriate to tell me -- when the state out of power is going to put the Uttering Regulation on funds that are being implemented at local levels on behalf of the use of natural resources on local self-government units, as foreseen by the Law on the financing of local self-government. The government has rerouted the funds by means of a regulation and has absolutely the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We believe in the SRS that this will be a single move, so putting out of force of such a regulation, a move that will also provide fiscal, or financial decentralisation, and that will be absolutely in the function of even regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15415	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is 46 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15416	This is the best Rules of Procedure that exists on the globe of the Earth. Formally-legal for one amendment you can 46 minutes, and that's one class at school. I have to draw attention to the fact that this amendment and the addition of the law has inserted and quite a number of members, all of them being conducted under Article 24, but there are almost 20 members, and all of them concern something that is the working-law status of employees in the tax administration. Then the question arises - why should this regulation have to regulate something that is a working-law relationship when there is a Law on State Administration and the Law on Civil Servants, Landowners, etc. The question then arises as to what specificity this is, that this tax procedure law and the tax administration should be regulated and one part concerning the employment relationship and the status of these tax inspectors, tax inspectors and tax police inspectors. The answer is very simple. Here, let me briefly tell you what this is about. Once the Domination of the Ministry of Finance had DS. Tax regulations have been changed around these tax officials and they've gotten their hands on something, they've hired, they've hired. Then Mladjan Dinkic came in two terms, as finance minister, and in one he was the finance minister, and in the other he seemed to be the Deputy Prime Minister. In 2004, he was elected, once a minister, and then a vice president. Then came the rush of these experts. Here, let me give you an example. For example, in Nis, one Radan Ilic, the famous SPO-vac, the monarchist to the board, was more fond of the king than Mladjan Dinkic; he prefers to go to Ravno Gora than to the Philharmonic. When he came for that director, he replaced everyone, threw you out of the SPS, everything out and started receiving. He took in his party buddies, had to, godfathers, relatives, and just to tell you that his father was, in time, the President of the District Court, in charge of that case, the Sorceress, and that I don't order you any further. While the Coalition was together, he and that Banana were there again with Zivkovic. So there is a continuity of destroying Nis - destroying Nis, remember. Nis has been an injured place since 27 January 1997, when the coalition together built local government. If you don't believe me, ask Milet Ilic, he'll explain it much better. You might as well ask Zivkovic, and he'll explain everything nicely, since it's now in his head. Now you need to make some cover. He must no longer say so nakedly – he has a membership card, he has been a first fighter since October 5th, he went to the National Assembly to light himself up. You remember how many ministers were in the government so far who had "5 in their biography. He found himself in the Square of Nikola Pasic in October." You remember, in November 2000, Labus broke in, crisis headquarters broke into businesses. Afterwards, they prayed for it to be stopped – that the porters could not be directors. There's got to be some way to put the frame. Then the question arises, that this working-law status was not regulated in 2002, when this law was passed – it was pro-European, best, since before that law nothing was right, nor was the Law on Public Revenue, nor was it about public expenditure, which is still in force, just so you know, and not to talk about which other regulation. I'm just surprised Dejan Popovic didn't rebel. He and that Raicevic were the creators of our first tax regulations in 1991. I have to say, those rules were good. The practice was bad, and the regulations weren't bad, but when you started with ash and ash, you had to wipe it out. I'm just surprised that the two authors, also the five-eyed, that is, this one was a rector, and now somewhere, it seems to me, while this other Raicevic, is a professor at the Faculty of Economics. He's already grasping his head when he hears "Democratic Party", so you know. He was even the first director, I think, at the time of the Republic Public Revenue Administration, or this Novakovic – it doesn't matter, but it started. The tax system, according to the new constitution, has been arranged, and that has to be said. It is said - incomes are public, the service must be centralized. You started decentralisation two years ago in the system – returning jobs to local self-government in the part about local self-government revenues, so that someone wouldn't call me, scream, etc., so you later introduced a vault, so you introduced some more control, so you introduced quotas without telling you about a budget inspection that also exists at the local level, those departments of your budget inspection. They had to be checked, so when they determined what was going on in public procurement, etc. in public enterprises of local importance, then you rushed faster or better with public prosecutors – to stop the proceedings and the persecution started and these people, I must tell you. A year and a half ago, you reduced the congregation to the local self-government unit to decide who will be the head of the local tax service. So you're going to break down, atomize the system -- the worse, the better. For who? For one whose dolls will be in the front row. We have another phenomenon. You can determine exactly when you enter the tax administration who is the representative of the X company, Y – companies, Z – companies, Jota – companies. They're here, but they've got an abbey somewhere else. I agree with your story that this material part is very important for the tax inspection, for most people who work there, but there are chosen ones, where the material aspect of working in the tax administration is insignificant – the main application is obtained elsewhere. We can also talk about it – what does it mean when a tax inspection, the tax police go through a legal person, check books, loggers, and a colleague who comes next – doesn't have to look at what was before, and that's all washed up, that's all clean. Why do you think this special unit was made for large taxpayers? Not to charge or comply with the law, but to protect the media, because they are the engines of Serbia's development -- where they stab their button, there comes a coat right away. Of course, you had to sort of stand behind this. You've been presented with objective problems. However, it is not just objective problems – it is something else. Find a tax inspector, take him to a bar to drink two dunes and open his soul – you'll hear about crime, what's going on. They are no longer hiding, simply – they are working under stress. Mrs Dragutinović, we just had another law. Do you know that the changes in that law have introduced that the market value of the immovable property subject to expropriation is determined by the tax authority. Does the IRS have any skills? Now I'm going to remind you of something else that happened at the end of last year. At the end of last year, you passed the Public Procurement Act. Did you know that real estates are no longer the subject of public procurement? They are not good. So, all those who are obliged to respect the Public Procurement Act, when they provide the immovableity they can do it directly by contract and then you realize who took five-six thousand squares, two built-up floors, as a form of compensation. Those who threw their paws on some land made sure there could be some construction in the future. We have interesting properties. Maybe in America there's a big problem. There may be a big problem in Germany, where there's not a single inch of land that's not loaded with mortgages, but there's still room for us. When it comes to urban places, when it comes to cities like Belgrade, you know what the price of real estate is, as it changes. Literally speaking, at two kilometers 50%, the price changes, the market value of some immovableity, and whoever puts their paws on it, he's done his job. Whoever makes the big mall, he's done a big job. This must be followed by the tax administration and therefore the provisions of 20 and some members, which regulate the status of persons employed in the tax administration, means - income-finding inspectors, tax police inspectors, allegedly, improves a position in relation to what is prescribed by the Law on State Employees. They will have the right to a slightly higher salary, and there will be other things to be respected, and should they finish the job – to increase public revenues, to legally collect public revenues, I think above all, and that whoever is the taxpayer is identified as a taxpayer? You have, even in one provision here, about establishing a tax base, exceeded, or not only the methodology of establishing a tax base, but you have entered into value, which is the matter of the Law on property tax, the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens and Other Regulations. That's it. So if I didn't take a good look at something in the Property Tax Act, I'm going to insert these provisions into the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. If I haven't done something materially and legally, and as far as income tax is concerned, I'm putting into the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, even though what I'm putting into this procedural law is a material provision that needs to be there. Of course, to apply it in a normal way, it must have a special status. To make it simple for all MPs, we in the SRS parliamentary group have never received a list of who was at the quorum, and the ZES parliamentary group gets a list of who it was every day. Someone can say, why didn't you ask? And that can be the reason, and the answer and everything. Then it happens the next time you look, then it's said, no, it's given at the end of the session, not at the beginning. So there's always some excuse. Depending on where he sits, as he presents himself, it can be a big reason, and it can also be a sneeze. I object to the introduction into the provisions of the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act of this number of provisions which regulate the working-legal status of employees in that tax administration, regardless of whether it is an organisational unit, central, etc., because then I don't see why you praised the Law on State Servants, because there are provisions on certain specificities in that law. The law predicted the possibility that there was something specific. Now you're here to regulate something by law, with these changes and additions, you leave a lot of things to the sublegal acts of some manager. Secondly, you probably won't notice or want to talk about it, but I'm not sure you know what the decentralisation process is. If you've defined something as a public income from a republican level, a republican public income, I don't know what this kind of decentralisation means to you. I can understand that there are outsourced departments, field departments that are part of the tax administration, but that what you need to solve there is working-legal status you treat as decentralisation, I'm creeping out at that thought. Some bright mind could say - and independent Kosovo is a form of decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia directed by the Republic of Serbia. From the point of view of the Constitution, we can call on you for days not to secure the payment of income, public revenues in the oven for all taxpayers. What don't you have on the taxpayer records from Kosovo and Metohija? You're going to say - we have some. You don't, you don't have the main ones. We appreciate some, say, imposed, forced reality, but keep an eye on when you talk about decentralisation. I am an opponent of decentralisation in those matters that are of national importance and which the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has put as a republican jurisdiction, because the process of decentralisation with us can mean - any village of Obaška. You saw for yourself, in order to pass the Statute of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, a meeting was organised in Jagodina, so a meeting was organised in Nis. The point of that meeting is to pass the statute, give this consent, and based on some solutions and definitions, Nis can have a chair next to Novi Sad in Brussels. I don't allow any chairs in Brussels, because Brussels is so far away, and what you're hoping for, you talk, you hope for eight years, you talk, you talk, you talk, there goes the flag, there goes this, there goes, everything goes, and your fog store is the most expensive store. So please be careful. We have not submitted a large number of amendments to these provisions on the working-law status of people working in the tax administration so that you simply do not object, and again some obstruction in two minutes etc., but this does not solve the problem. There's a problem with the feuds. Right now this feud is being held formally-legalally by the Democratic Party, remember, but there's no greater influence. There are these "youths" who have been sitting for a long time, and there are these tycoons that are coming in, who are supposed to provide. Don't be surprised, it's a similar situation with both the National Bank and other institutions, almost identical. Of course, you're going to say -- no, there's experts, there's experts. I know. Go to Prcilovica and explain to that peasant what you have to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15417	The word has been issued by MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, deputy president of the parliamentary group Forward Serbia. Time for an authorised representative is 15 minutes and time for the 25-minute parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15418	I'll use the time of the authorized representative. Prosperity Club Forward Serbia was not in a position for its amendments to enter the procedure, because this law was given to the Assembly to consider an emergency procedure, but in the course of setting up the agenda an emergency procedure was lifted, so that we wrote amendments lost the right to surrender because we had to do so until the beginning of the first principle debate, i.e. the beginning of the session. I am using the parliamentary right to say a few words within the time available to the representative of the parliamentary group that I consider to have an exceptional weight, in relation to how to deploy, or to fill jobs in the tax administration. In principle, I reminded myself of the 2005 situation, that in June 2005, 231 employees of the tax administration in Serbia were without any reason given the solution that the technological surplus and cancellation of the labour contract were. Many of them were undesirable, apparently regardless of their expertise and calling, under the heading of the Regulation on streamlining and reducing the number of employees in state bodies, which has been in force since 2004, have remained out of the tax administration. At the same time, with the layoffs of people who had calling and knowledge, but apparently were unsatisfactory, party-like workers were employed without proper calling, work experience, professional skills, and many of them today are bosses and executives. At the time, the finance minister, Mr Dinkic, presented to the public and the media data that it was about workers who were misjudged by their superiors, that they were corrupt, that they had done poor intelligence tests that many people said were, many of the questions on these tests, almost offensive and all of them had doubts that they were actually serving as look-alike rabbits for someone, I don't know what, the goals and the tests of some of our unknown organizations. What all of us and you need to worry about here is that more than half of these and so fired workers have received work disputes, that the compensation for the immaterial and material consequences of 10 to 15 000 euros and that the damage to the compensation of these and such work disputes falls on the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget. For the rest of the disputes are under way, and I ask you to simply figure out the weight of this procedure, 231 employees, so at the lowest price of a 10,000-euro compensation demand, that's two million and 310 000 euros, that's over two billion 150 000 dinars per budget, and that question is whether at this point the budget can withstand the burden of someone's whim and the change of party-likeness of people employed in such an important body to enforce the laws. The inspection method itself and the implementation of a law is basically expensive, but if you have done damage to fire 231 people and have already received more than half of them working disputes, with very great certainty that the other half will receive them, and you are asking the Assembly for the right to hire new ones and to give them the salary or the cost of implementing this law will not bear the budget, but only the tax administration, which is again one and the same economy. Citizens of this Republic of Serbia, I wonder if this kind of treatment has brought the reputation of the tax administration into question how damaged the budget is and whether you and the Institute of Permanent Transfer, to which you have not responded what it means, are really doing something in the interests of the citizens of Serbia and the budget or to their harm. Thank you. (During this speech, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15419	The word is from MP Slobodan Maras, authorised representative of the LDP MP. Time is available to the parliamentary group for 14 minutes and 24 seconds and time at the disposal of the authorised representative for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15420	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, at first I must only rely on what Mrs Tabakovic said before me and in much of what she said and I must agree. It is true that half of these disputes have already been obtained by workers and there is likely to be more, but this does not reduce the need for tax administration for new employees for the simple reason that we mentioned in the principle debate that a large number of quality personnel are being drained and that it now also makes up the province administration and the city administration in Belgrade, and I suppose other local ones will be even more difficult when local self-governments take over to work taxes that are in their jurisdiction. Mrs Dragutinovic, there is a lot left unsaid on the subject we started on Tuesday, regardless of what you later stated that it was true that the NIS report was submitted on the final loss account, but we need to get to know some things here, when it comes to the subject, the public and the most to know the citizens. The NIS since 2002, in conclusion with its 2007 final account, has shown profits. In 2002, the profit was 6.1 billion, in 2003 6.6 billion, in 2004 2.4 billion, in 2005 3.9 billion, in 6,27 billion and in 2007 5.26 billion. What am I saying that for? Because according to the regulations, this profit was shared between the State and the NIS. In the course of last year, more precisely in December, we concluded a sales contract and purchase of NIS shares with Russia's Gazprom. Mrs Dragutinovic, I'm sure you know that the unsettled profit, which is the end of 2007, when it comes to NIS amounts to over 9 billion dinars. You also know for a fact that a member of the 441th contract provides, which speaks of corporate governance, that since the transfer was concluded and as long as the Republic of Serbia is a shareholder in the company, it has at least 10% shares in the NIS share capital. The parties agreed that corporate management of the company would be carried out in accordance with the principles laid down in the applicable law and the founding act. So, as long as the Republic of Serbia is a shareholder in the company, it owns at least 10% of shares in the NIS share capital. A positive voice of the seller is needed to make the following solutions, i.e. the NIS decision, independent of the administrative body that is in charge and in which most Russian parties now have, which is the adoption of financial and audit reports. Why am I saying this? I noted that on Tuesday, and this has been confirmed by the NIS itself, and Mrs Minister also confirmed it. The NIS management handed over the 2008 final account within the legal deadline and made a profit, so that another 15 days would be requested to carry out the corrections in the report and then submitted a final account showing a loss of more than three billion dinars. What is it, Madam Minister, and above all, is it important that the citizens of Serbia know the same? Before selling its 51% to Gazprom, the NIS Assembly decided that all profits will be achieved... Madam Chairman, please tell me that if you could ring the bell, I'm sorry this isn't about my colleagues, but it's a distraction. You have no intention of ringing the bell. Okay, I can talk louder. All profits in 2008 were due to go to the budget, such a decision was made by the NIS Assembly, so all profits go to the Republic of Serbia's budget, and with this document and the revision of the final account, for which I want to use harder words about what was done with it, the Republic of Serbia has lost. According to the recent director of NIS, Mr. Saramandic's only profit in the first six months of 2008 was over 100m euros, which is 123% more than expected. And in the third quarter, there was profit and it is absolutely impossible to lose more than 100m euros in the fourth quarter of last year and to show the loss of NIS. Serbian citizens are damaged in this way, the large budget you are taking care of is damaged. That is why I read that as long as 10% of the government of the Republic of Serbia owns NIS without it cannot bring a financial report, no revision can be made. NIS brought some of their auditory houses to the Russian intervention, without your consent, it couldn't have done that. The final account was handed over without your consent, and that couldn't have been a loss. Today we read in the paper that NIS had to allocate 50 million to pensions from those funds paid by the Russians, and you gave up a profit that is certainly over 30m euros for 2008. Who gave that right? I'm tired of talking about NIS. You can laugh, I believe it's funny to you, and so much so far, but the facts are one thing, we've been saying for six months, don't people do it that way. Mr. Prime Minister said here when we were asking questions that he didn't understand why I had such a negative attitude towards that contract. I have a negative attitude towards those who carry out that contract. Someone has damaged the state of Serbia, someone has to answer for it. We're talking about the economic crisis that's rocking us right now. Well, we're making ten times the crisis in our country. How is he made available by means? There are big problems with this final account. You said you'd do anything to control him in the best possible way, and you and I both know that every final bill can be fixed and everything can be in accordance with the law. We ask you to give us an answer to the question how is it possible that more than 100m euros, which the NIS had as a profit, in the middle of last year, to melt into loss, who ordered to withdraw the final bill that showed the profits? Is that the reason to iron out these nine billion dinars of unscheduled profits that existed until 2007? I'm saying this for tax purposes. Taxes are paid for profit. And there's the damaged budget of the Republic of Serbia. Who gave consent? I repeat, as long as we have 10% as the Republic of Serbia in the NIS, without our consent, I can't have financial reports, I can't have audit reports. Someone agreed to damage the Republic of Serbia's budget, because he was careless enough to let something like that happen. I don't know if it's possible now that it's the urgency for those who have supported this agreement to show how the Russians are doing business? I have nothing against them, they work in their own interest, but who defends our interests? Who defends the interests of the Republic of Serbia? You're one of the responsible, as finance minister. I'm undermining, it's billions of dinars, which the profit had in NIS every year, and now we're suddenly at a loss. Okay, you can do worse, but you can't melt over 100m euros in three months. Mrs Dragutinovic, 2008 was also the last year in which the Republic of Serbia, as the sole owner, will be able to obtain it. So we gave it up. I'm afraid even in these unpaid nine billion, there's going to be a problem because of this loss that's been made. Next, the problem that arises: what is NIS's bonus to go to any bank now and ask for some credit, since you're losing it? Of course, you'll agree to ask Gazprom's bank, but what are the conditions? I'm sure they won't get conditions like someone who's got a profit, does positive business, but as a loser, a little worse conditions will be. Does anyone take care of that? Once again I have to say the following thing: LDP has nothing against the Russian side, we have against that side that represented us in such a bad way and that continues. You sold 51%, there was no reason for such a thing, you were promised the South Stream, God forbid it was, we want it to be, because it's in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. But what's this about? Someone's got to be responsible for that. The NIS itself has been confirmed, so it is a loss, and we want to hear how it came to be. They can iron whatever they want, we have a statement from the director who responsibly claimed that in the first three quarters big-positive business. What could have happened? The price of oil fell? What was the price of oil at the beginning of the year? So it was extra-profit. It exceeded 123 times what was the plan. Now suddenly loss. Please, in accordance with your powers, competences, responsibilities, give us answers to something like that, but not through the media, please, because I think that, as the MPs who started this topic, we need to hear the answers to those questions. That's enough to justify ourselves. Okay, well, it's a global economic crisis, and it's gonna hit us hard. Mr. Governor made it clear the other day that these two billion are too, and that next year there will be much more. We can take it all together. We're all citizens of this country. But not in this way, that someone in the name of the Serbian state is giving up the profits that the NIS had. In whose interest and who ordered, did the new owner, does the new owner, with the agreement of someone from the state summit, decide to withdraw the report in which the profits were presented, submit a new one showing loss and thus damage Serbia's budget, through that profit and through a tax to be paid for the profits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15421	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Proposer representative, Finance Minister Mrs Diana Dragutinovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15422	So I accept the amendment submitted by MP Boris Aleksic to Article 24. This is my favorite amendment, I have to admit, very well written.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15423	Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Lydia Dimitrijevic. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is 28 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15424	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the amendment submitted by fellow Mr Marko Milenkovic to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration is very similar to the previous amendment and proposes the same solution, which refers to Article 24, the new Article 169g, which regulates the way in which the executive posts are filled, the electoral procedure, the list of candidates, where it is proposed that the list of candidates with the best result in the election process be delivered to the director of the tax administration, who should make a decision on admission to work for indefinite time. Of course, this text is not in the spirit of providing decentralisation in the administrative apparatus the meaning of this amendment is that the membership of candidates in a working relationship is carried out by directors, but the organisational units for the areas to which the competition relates. For example, it cannot be determined in Belgrade who will work in the Tax Administration in Prokuplje, Kursumlia, Blacu, Žitorajji, but the competition should be conducted by the director of the organisation unit in Nis. There are no fundamental differences here, because in all these leading places there are personnel from that party, but in one technical and practical sense accepting the amendments would be a form of administrative decentralisation. The part of the draft law governing the tax collection process and the tax administration authority implementing the procedure, with few technical improvements, is not as controversial as the government’s intention, or one party’s intention, to provide and define a competition for new professionally trained workers through the law, and all in the function of hiring party personnel. The proposal is likely to succeed in its intention to adopt the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, thus creating an opportunity to increase the number of tax officials and provide motivational factors to stop the outflow of trained personnel with high expertise. The fact is that, in order to improve the business climate in a serious body such as the tax administration, it is necessary to work to provide motivational factors, but the fact is that for one area they cannot be professionally members of one party only and only they are given the opportunity to reach employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15425	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs Dragutinovic, good afternoon, I hope you're feeling better today. Otherwise, for your information, the editor-in-chief for all these amendments and supervisors in the SRS was my esteemed colleague Dragan Stevanović, so it is more evidence that there are really a lot of young professional and educated people in the SRS who can very competently discuss the various laws that are in the procedure in front of the National Assembly, so that the hack who is headed against the SRS in one part of the public, that we are primitive, uneducated, etc., that we do not shower three times a day as others, now this is the best proof that this is not true. Mrs. Kolundjia, we may not shower three times a day like you, but we shower at least once a day, so don't worry. Maybe it's not healthy to shower three times a day. Perhaps it was Mrs Dragutinovic celebrating, so now the woman is a little cold, especially in this wintertime. Okay, we're just kidding. This law, Mrs Dragutinovic, raises several issues that are problematic. First of all, what Mr Krasic noticed is quite true. Therefore, in this tax procedure and tax administration, there are too many provisions that are purely labour-legal. In this matter, as well as in criminal-processing matter when we talked about the law on international aid in criminal matters, we said that the legal system was disintegrating. Approximately, you're doing it now when it comes to working-legal matter. We have one basic fundamental law that regulates this matter, which is the Labour Act. I'm not going in at all what his quality is. The fact is that it is a basic system regulation that regulates labour relations in the Republic of Serbia. Since 2005, we have the Civil Service Act, and I don't want to talk about its quality either. The fact is that in 2005, when it was adopted, it was quite spectacular, that it was in line with European standards, that the OSCE mission in Serbia gave a positive opinion, that it was in line with the state administration reform strategy, etc. We have a special law, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which now introduces some newspapers and into this special law, such as the Law on Civil Service. Therefore, the Civil Service Act already contains some deviations from the general labour rules contained in the Labour Act. The Civil Service Act is a special law in relation to the Labour Act. You've made one higher level of specialty. Now in the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, you are largely deviating from the Law on civil servants. You're saying the matter of tax collection is extremely important to the state. Yes, it is. For the state, it is also extremely important to defend the country. Does this mean that we will now get a special law on labour relations in the military administration, that we will get a special law on labour relations in the health administration, because health care is also an important area of social life and tax collection, as well as defence of the country. So there are too many of these special laws and thus the unity of the legal system is broken. Coli Krasic was well aware that you in this law, not only in these changes and additions, but in the basic law of 2002, brought two incompatible things together. On the one hand, material law, and on the other hand, procedural law. The law is called the Tax Procedure Act. That part of the name of the law suggests it's one procedural law. The tax procedure, you will agree, Mrs Dragutinovic, is nothing but a special administrative procedure. The other part of the name of the law is the Tax Administration Act, which is a purely material and legal area for you. So that's the area of labour relations in the tax administration. Now you have made great exceptions in this area, not only in relation to the Labour Act, but also in relation to the Civil Service Act. What has particularly fallen into my eye is one provision that you have not changed in the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act, which concerns the election of the Director of the Tax Administration. I will remind you, since 2005, when the Law on State Servants was passed and when the Law on State Administration was passed, then the Government, and these principles were accepted by all later governments, claimed that the professionalisation of the state administration should be carried out, that the state administration should be free of political disciplines and that there should be as little so-called state administration as possible. political officials. If you look at the State Administration Act that should be applied to this matter, there are only two political officials in each segment of the state administration, and above all in the ministries. They are the minister, elected and resolved by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and this is the State Secretary, the former deputy minister, appointed by the government. Only these two entities are political officials, Minister and Secretary of State, and all others, if we follow the Law on State Administration and the Law on Civil Service, should be entities that are completely independent of the shift of power, completely independent of any political party. So, strictly professionals. You have introduced a significant principle in the Law on Civil Servants that should depolitise the state administration in Serbia, which is the principle of coming to all state positions through a public competition. Only the minister and only the secretary of state don't set up in public competition and that's normal. In no country in the world governed by the principle of parliamentary democracy, the minister does not become someone based on a public competition or his deputy. Everyone else, no matter how important they take place in that hierarchy, should come on the basis of some competition, based on some objective criteria, not just on someone's party membership. Since 2000, we've had a lot of problems as a state because individual resolutions, certain areas of social life, are divided by a system of party prey. This part belongs to DS, this part belongs to G17 plus, usually when it comes to finance there are these experts from G17 plus, this part belongs to another coalition partner, etc. The Law on State Administration and the Law on State Servants, both of which were adopted in the package as part of a single strategy for reforming the state administration, in which you swore and swear to continue, and you talk a lot about it, but you don't act according to that strategy, and that's the basic problem. Therefore, the Law on State Administration and the Law on State Servants wanted to depolitise the state administration and introduced the principle that important positions in the state administration, and the tax administration is one such body, comes from a public competition. Now if you're reading the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration in that section relating to the Director of the Tax Administration, what are you going to see? You will see that it continues to come not in the principle of public competition, not on the principle of expertise and objectivity, but also on the principle of party membership. You have not changed, correct me, Mrs Dragutinovic, if I am mistaken, you have not changed the provisions of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which provides for the director to be appointed by the Government, director of the Tax Administration, on a proposal from the finance minister. It remained like a relic of some of the past times that you allegedly wanted to get rid of. It does not say anywhere that the director of the tax administration is being appointed by the government, and after a public competition previously conducted, only to be appointed by the government. This means exclusively by political criteria, as agreed by you in the ruling coalition, it will be appointed director of the tax administration. Is he professional, whether he really takes care of the country's financial interests, whether he's subject to corruption, nobody cares. It is important that it be the man you agree on in the ruling coalition, or the heads of the party leading the ruling coalition. If we look at the hierarchy of civil servants under the Civil Service Act, the Director of the Tax Administration is an official in office, he must not be a political official. You, Mrs Dragutinović, are a political official, although you personally are much less than some of your subordinate employees. I highly appreciate your expertise, your culture of conduct in the National Assembly, the attitude towards the MPs who have submitted amendments and who are taking part in the debate on the proposals for laws coming from the government. I appreciate it and respect it with you, and some of your colleagues don't behave that way, but you are really a positive exception in this practice. So by some definition, you should be a political official. You come to the place of the Minister of the Political Factors, the dice come together, and now the DS has a chance to have a finance minister and it is quite logical that the Minister of Finance chooses and resolves the Assembly, beyond any competition. A civil servant in office, according to the Law on Civil Servants, is not some political wish of the SRS, you yourself wrote in the State Employees Act in 2005, so the director of the Tax Administration is a state official in office. Under the law, he is appointed by the government, it is not controversial, but according to an earlier public competition. There's no public competition here. This means that the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration not only derivates the Labour Act, not only derogates the Law on State Officers in respect of the rights and obligations of persons employed in the Tax Administration, but you also derogate the State Administration Act and the Civil Service Act as regards how the Director of Tax Administration is elected. Here, Mrs Dragutinovic, another question is asked. How many people who work in the tax administration and the finance ministry take care of the country's financial interests, and how much they care about the interests of various tycoons and called businessmen, who are in Serbia in not so few numbers. Now on purpose here, from courtiasy to you, I will not mention this man's name, but a few months ago, when you adopted amendments to the Excise Act, that affair opened up. The man was a State Secretary in the finance ministry, sitting here about where you are sitting, helping the Minister of Finance at the time, and now Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, helping him monitor the presentation of the MPs, was the secretary of state, not for several months, went to work in a large tobacco company, and now in the tobacco company, he represents quite the opposite of those represented by the secretary of state. When he was a secretary of state, he reportedly cared about the interests of the state, the people, to make the state's register as full as possible. The man went away after three months to that private tobacco company, now he cares about the interests of the tobacco company. The citizens of Serbia are no longer important, now they are no longer the individual tobacco producers in Serbia, and now it's the master's pocket that pays for it. Whoever guarantees us, Mrs Dragutinovic, this is the basic problem that is being put in place in this law, that people who are sitting in the Ministry of Finance, as your secretaries, assistants, advisors, etc., are already not working for the interests of various tycoons, mobsters, businessmen, etc. Here is the question - if that is not the case, why do you, by Law on Tax Procedure and the Tax Administration, derrogate and Labour Act, and the Law on State Employees and the Law on State Administration, etc. You continue to retain great influence of the day-to-day policy on the functioning of the tax administration. I can believe that you are personally concerned that the state register is as full as possible and that the citizens of Serbia feel the burden of this economic crisis as little as possible, I can really believe that you will not disappoint me in this regard as others, but I am not sure about the people who are sitting around you, who have come to these places in various party combinations, that they are not already working for the interests of various tycoons, businessmen, etc. who do not care about the citizens of Serbia. They don't care about the problems you're facing as a minister, how you're gonna fill the state's register. They are full of newspapers from these big businessmen who are mind-blowing everyone about how the economy is being run, full of news articles from financial problems their companies are facing, over-indebted, completely irrationally taking loans, threatening to fire workers, etc. They only care about their personal interests, the interests of their companies, in which part of the world they will build a villa, how many pools they will build, whether they will put crocodiles from Amazonia or Africa in that pool, etc. That's what they take care of. They don't care that now Mrs. Dragutinovic, a cold woman, has to sit in parliament and discuss with SRS lawmakers whether to accept or not to accept some amendment. They, Mrs Dragutinović, don't give a shit about you and us and this country. I guarantee you that there are still those in the Ministry of Finance and you, rather than, at least formally preventing them from going into work tomorrow with private employers who only think about their private interests, you continue to leave the tax administration so wide open to the involvement of various parties, owners of capital, etc. at a time when it is evident that Serbia has been in an economic crisis that has been shaking the whole world for more than a year. These are the problems, Mrs Dragutinovic, which are being placed under this law. Those problems will still remain open. What is very unfortunate for the citizens of Serbia, is that these problems of working relations, influencing political parties, tycoons, businessmen etc. Especially escalate in 2009, in a year that will be extremely difficult economically, and it will be even more difficult, because you are now leaving space in the laws, the generous suspicious types in Serbia are doing what they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15427	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras. Time available, as representative of the parliamentary group, you have two minutes left, and the LDP parliamentary group has 14 minutes and 24 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15428	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Ministerial, I will be brief this time. Mrs Dragutinović, I expected, when you came out after me, even though you wanted to say that one amendment on your part was rated as your favorite, that you would say something at least. You might say, "Marash, you're lying, you're not telling the truth, that's not true, or you're going to say something else, so you're going to say yes, that's true. It's completely insane that we in our country, we who run the government, expected to have as much profit as we did in recent years, and now we're showing a loss. We'll do everything we can to examine how it happened, who did the failure, who allowed the report to be fixed, to later send another who had a loss. I have to remind everyone, I'm sure you all remember the smile on Director NIS's face when he was asked what his salary was. You know why? Every year they had a profit. On that basis, they could pay 13. This year there's no 13th salary. Of course, I'm not sorry they won't get the 13th salary, but I'm sorry that the republican budget, according to the people who did so recently, was damaged by at least 30m euros. At least 30m euros based on profits from the NIS did not add up to the republican budget. The president of the assembly is your Energy Minister, Mr. Skundric, ask him. Call him, ask him how it's possible, if we've had profits all year round, which in the first part of the year has crossed over 100m euros. I have to remind you, last year in the fall NIS on a list of 500 European companies found 20 places per profit it makes. Who works in whose interest? Please say something. If you have nothing to say, please come out and say I have nothing to say. It's completely disastrous that it is, but there's nothing to tell you. Tell me I'm not telling the truth, but say something, because of your dignity, not because of mine, because I'm behind all of what I've said and what I've been saying so far when it comes to NIS, because there are documents, signed, certified. I don't have a problem with that. You obviously have, but please, come out, say, take responsibility, say something, not tell us what your most likable and beautiful amendment is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15429	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Time at the disposal of the parliamentary group Forwards Serbia is 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I see here that the wish in the bill is to employ new workers in the IRS, that they are being motivated to work, to perform a certain systematization of taxpayers, etc. However, the problem with this law, as well as with all the laws that are passed on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, is that it...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15431	Excuse me, MP, I warn Parliament Dusanko Plecevic not to disturb, produce sounds and violate Article 104 speakers and not to behave unworthyly and inappropriately. I remind you that you already have one warning and that you do not force me to proceed with the sentence. This applies to other MPs, members of the SRS, who persist in deciding to behave unworthyly, and misbehaved in the National Assembly, violating the Rules of Procedure and obstructing the speaker during the presentation. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15432	A problem with both this and other laws that they selectively or partially apply. Let me remind you, we are currently living in the time of the global economic crisis. State...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15433	I warn MP Momir Markovic to stop violating Article 104, you've already had one warning today. I'm warning MP Suleiman Spah not to throw from the scene. People's MP, you have two warnings, you are currently violating the Rules of Procedure, you are insulting the dignity of the National Assembly, and you are leaving me no place but to give me a third measure that involves banning and taking away words. Indeed, I ask you to take very seriously your right to seek all rights under the Rules of Procedure that belong to you and other Members of the People. Do not remove the legitimacy of those who belong to opposition MP groups, believing that you can only speak of others having rights, but by taking away MPs the right to free word. I will be forced to say the measures, which in your case are the measures of taking words, which for this session probably means nothing to you, but I have to apply the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, MP, one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15434	We live in the time of the global economic crisis and the state is at least declaringly trying, i.e. government and individual government members, to tell us that this will be a year of savings for everyone, and for the government, for the Assembly, for budgetary users and for employees in the bodies of the state administration, etc. A few years ago we passed the Law on Employees in the Authorities of the State Administration, determined the coefficients, the law is full of inconsistencies and inconsistencies, but as such a law must ultimately be applied. By amending and supplementing this law, you put one part of the Law on Employees of the State Administration out of force. You're setting some extra coefficients, but come on, and I could understand that, but then what's he saying is that a four-day working week is going to be introduced to reduce the number of working hours, so that employees in government authorities will receive less wages? I don't have anything to do with it, but get out of this booth and tell me if that's the case. Maybe I'm wrong. Let me ask another question, what about employees of various public income funds, say, with employees of the Health Insurance Fund, I don't mean health workers and health care workers, but people who are employed in funds? Their wages are 40%, 50%, 60% higher...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15435	I warn Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic that the warnings that I express to the MPs understand and accept as saying the names of all the MPs I see who, despite the warning, violate Article 104. I really ask you to stop with hypocrisy, to seek rights for us, and to deny those rights by our actions to others. National MP Milovanovic throws it away. I remind you that the warnings have already been made. National MP Milovanovic continues to throw away, a procedure that is inadmissible to Article 104, and I give you a warning, asking you to take it seriously, that after that, measures will be taken on the basis of Article 106. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15436	What about these employees, how much of their earnings in the same categorization are greater than the employees of government authorities, when they also receive salaries from public revenues? What about the profits of the people who work in pension funds? How much are their profits? How much is their earnings greater than the employees of the authorities of the state administration, since they receive salaries from the same register? Madam Minister, in order to explain to you what the problem is, it would be best to find someone, send them from some of the pension institutions, to exercise some of their right to work, but without your intervention, your pass, your power to pass there. He'll come back to you after ten days wrinkled, torn, scratched, scratched, dirty and half mad by a state administration that doesn't do its job and receives fantastic salaries. I had one chance with that facility. They walked me from the counter to the counter, until in the end I was invited to be an MP and to stop doing it. For the right that belongs to me under the law and they keep making up some new papers, some new requirements, I finally asked them -- where does that say more in the law? But let's go back to how the laws are partially implemented. It's been announced here for a long time by the fiscal register law, so it's even passed, so some changes and additions have been made, it's complemented, but how? By releasing certain taxpayers from their obligation to have fiscal bills. It was brought in that lawyers, because of the nature of the work they do, do not have to have a fiscal register, so dentists do not have to have a fiscal cash register because of their work, so doctors who work in private practice also do not have to have a fiscal register, because, behold, they do a delicate job, a tax official can abuse it. You have to admit that it's a pretty stupid excuse, because tax officials have access to much bigger secrets than a patient's diagnosis through a tax procedure they're conducting. Let me ask you, Madam Minister, since when does Soroš have the right to have no fiscal register, since when does the SBB have the right to have no fiscal cash register? Public companies working with citizens are obliged to issue a fiscal account when charging the services they provide. It's for the tax they charge. For those who do not charge, on the basis of the number of contracts from everything they have with citizens, they are obliged to account for VAT and to pay for it whether or not they are paid by citizens, right? Since when does the SBB have no obligation to account for it, to express it, or to have a fiscal cash register? Is that due to Mrs. Licht, who, whose, whose, who gave him that for the right? Public enterprises, state institutions, whether in their own local self-government, whether state administrations must have fiscal cash registers. You know what, there's a lot of other things to manipulate and cash. If you are unable to issue a order to tax officials to check this claim, check and deliver a tax report, it is my advice that you no longer do this job. There's no point in doing anything if you can't abide by the law that you're proposing and you're passing. When it comes to this famous government programme for economic recovery, exiting the global economic crisis of the entire country, I already told you in a debate in the principle that it is not right for Serbian citizens to place money from Serbia's budget in loans indexed in euro. That some taxpayer who has fulfilled his tax obligation is asking the state for help and obtains credit, but in dinars that are indexed in euro. We are witnessing that in the past month, there has been some small, almost no oscillation in the course of the euro. So it's been moving more or less in the range of 1%, especially since these measures were announced and since they started in their application. Who doesn't guarantee me that now that the euro is in the company's stagnation they don't start taking such loans, and citizens and businesses, look out, it's 122 billion dinars, a billion and a half euros. Only one dinar for the euro to jump, the citizens will have to return a billion and a half euros more. It's that problem that gives me the right to doubt that you want to go through those loans to cover your budget deficit. That would be justified if you took loans from foreign banks in euro, placed them on the market in dinars and indexed in euro, then I wouldn't be afraid for currency stability, because any credit would be covered by the foreign exchange credit you took from abroad. Like this, you don't have that kind of cover. What is currently a stable euro is not the merit of the RS government, but of current opportunities, the financial opportunities of citizens. So there is no need for large imports of goods of broad consumption, not because it has enough domestic consumption, but because there is no one to buy it, so there is a calming of the euro. When I told you about banks, that you have disabled domestic banks for work, for what they were created for, just to remind you, you are now placing these 122 billion euros mostly through banks that were all over September, October, November, December and a good part of January and February pressing the euro course to get as many euros out of here as possible and returning to their headquarters. That's quite true. So that's the kind of pressure that's been put on. Even Raiffeisen Bank only took nearly a billion euros out of the state in one day, although it was an agreement with the National Bank not to do so. You're making loans through these banks now because you don't have homework. What little he has doesn't have enough permeable infrastructure for these loans. At 0.5% of the cost you will give these banks no less than 122 billion 600 million dinars for all of this, as a reward for what they've been doing to us in the past. Madam Minister, stop practice when it comes to punishing you for making a difference between taxpayers. It is quite clear that the entrepreneur, both the legal person and the responsible person, must pay the fine, but I do not understand how for the same tax offense one pays more and one less. I understand that an entrepreneur and a responsible person once pays a fine, a legal person plus a responsible person. Tell me what's the difference, except in the form of registration, between a small company and an entrepreneur. Tell me how big it is. There's no number of employees. In the traffic they make, I can list at least ten entrepreneurs who have far, far greater traffic than 90% of those who are small. So, when it comes to this criminal policy, you level it, but not by increasing it to legal persons, but by finding some measure in this whole story, and by punishing those responsible for the severity of the tax offense. Write down how much anyone has to pay if he fails to tax or doesn't do what the law requires. So much for now in my first report.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15437	National MP Suleyman Spaho wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15438	I'm referring to Article 104. The rules of procedure because you harshly, Mrs. Comic, have violated the dignity of this assembly. A moment ago, before this speaker, you warned me that I was supposed to be hitting or something. I was standing there, believing to see if any of my colleagues were banging so I could help you, let me tell you, you warned me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15439	People's MP, please follow closely the course of the session of the National Assembly, I have not warned you. I warned you that you had two warnings and that you should stop the proceedings that constitute a violation of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and other members who regulate the obligation to conduct and conduct in the National Assembly. You have no right to speak because you have misused the position of Article 1 100. Rules of Procedure, considering you've been warned, because you're not focused enough to monitor the flow of the National Assembly. I'm warning you again that with a much more serious approach, we can all work in a session much more efficiently and better. Thank you, People's Messenger. Natasa Jovanovic, a member of the 24th amendment, submitted. National MP Slobodan Maras, in the debate in particular, and on Amendment 24. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15440	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, just now the Madam Chairman warned about the noise heard in this room. I think the much more dignity of this National Assembly is destroying the silence that comes from you, Madam Minister. I asked you two to give us an answer to some questions. Just keep your mouth shut, but don't be surprised if there are demonstrations under your window in Prince Milos or where, in front of the finance ministry, there are dissatisfied citizens. You said earlier - we're talking about amendments here, so you can't answer. We're talking about life. We're talking about this country, we're talking about the RS budget, but this is where the finance minister sits. If the only answer you have is silence, don't be surprised by the noise in front of your window.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15441	The word has a minister of finance. Did you want a word on this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15442	I have to admit, Mr. Marash, I'm not used to answering questions yet, when the one who asks them knows the answers. I thought I answered that question. Let me do it again. So you're asking me if what you're saying is true about showing up, or practically turning into a loss on the final account when it comes to NIS. Is that, if that's your question, approved by the finance minister? I would tell you this - everything you said is true, I can't swear by a single number, because I didn't see the exact number relating to the 2008 NIS profit, but the NIS definitely achieved profit, according to our methodology, or international accounting standards. What exactly was the profit, I don't know about the dinar. Also, you know very well, that's also true, the Shareholders' Assembly has decided that the entire profit virtually belongs to the RS budget. You also know that in the 2009 budget, which was adopted, we have calculated with that profit. And it was a surprise to me when I found out. What am I doing now? There's something going on, I'm trying to see what they've changed. The finance ministry, the finance minister certainly did not give consent to such a thing, a team before I planned it, so that was the revenue side of our budget. What I've heard is that there's some element, some member of the contract that suggests we couldn't do something like that. But when I read that contract to me, which I'm an economist, I'm not a lawyer, just what they've been doing -- it doesn't follow from that contract. I've given legal services and I'm questioning what they've changed. That's what they're doing right now. Anyway, it's all true, and NIS is making a profit all these years. It is custom 50% to transfer you to the Republic of Serbia's budget. This was all done by the new owner, without the consent of the finance minister. For all the things you asked, so you knew the answer and I guess you knew I couldn't agree to that. As this is exactly what you said, so it wasn't exactly what you said two days ago, but I forgot, when it comes to the interest write-off law. The law was passed, if I remember correctly, or on the 5th, and began to apply on 13 November, and the first payments under the law were in early December. So the first payments were in early December and all that could be checked. Also, everything is ready for March payments already in February. So this is true, and what you were saying about the interest write-off bill is not true. Can I move on to the amendment now? So, the amendment submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic to Article 24 I accept on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15443	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Therefore, on Article 24 of the amendment submitted by the National MP Natasa Jovanovic was accepted by the proposing representative. The People's MP, Free Maras, wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15444	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I wanted to thank you for coming out after my third call to confirm everything I have stated - that with this surrender of the final account by the new owners, I am undermining "new owners", the damaged budget of the Republic of Serbia. I expect that, as you have now had the willingness to confirm what I said, you will do everything you can to make sure that something like this doesn't happen. I didn't say for a moment - that you approved it, I just said that someone obviously approved it. So I didn't want to involve you personally for any moment. I am deeply convinced, as you have now had the willingness to confirm what I said, that you will have the willingness to examine this to the end and not allow the Republic budget to be damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15445	Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15446	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to Article 24. It's a bill of law. The purpose of the amendment is to raise the professional level of civil servants. The amendment has been filed because of the growing problems facing the state administration. That is also recognised by Minister Markovic, who announced in a statement on a daily paper of 12 March this year -- that there will be a reduction in the local administration for eight thousand people over the next four years, and that thus it will reportedly save 12m euros. When we compare this fact to IMF requirements, it is clear that there is a direct link between the IMF's conditions and the destruction of the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia. Savings can't be an excuse for that for the following reasons. The right to save would be to withdraw a pointless and harmful decision on the unilateral application of the Transition Agreement, which costs us about 267m euros, according to the authorities themselves. So it's more than 20 times the amount you're going to get from firing state local employees. I therefore appeal to the honourable minister that, when the announced budget rebalancing is announced, the decision to unilaterally implement the Transition Agreement should be abolished. I appeal to accept this amendment, because this will raise the level of work of state authorities and reduce corruption. In the end, I urge you to remain consistent in your position on the IMF arrangement and not to give in, as in the case of unilateral application of the Transition Agreement, because in the press of 12 March this year it was announced - that the distinguished Mrs Dragutinovic disagrees with the prime minister's assessment that Serbia must be in debt for even two billion dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15447	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15448	Madam Minister, I haven't heard what you said to my colleague Mirovic, but I think you are advocacy and that such a provision stands under f) of this amended article 169, or supplemented, because this is an anti-constitutional provision. As counterpart Mirovic wrote in the amendment, it is discriminatory. Put yourself personally in a situation if you weren't a minister, because you might be the director of the tax administration somewhere, right, or one of your colleagues. Imagine now that one of the closest members of your family, your husband or your sister, or your brother has a job that is, as the law says, related to the work of the tax administration. This someone is discriminated against and cannot perform this activity simply because you are an official or director of the tax administration. I must now return to the beginning and to the basic law of Bozidar Djelic, because this is another novelty. We have had various attempts since 2002, i.e. this is the fourth change and addition since 2002, when the basic one was brought in, so Djelic suggested - that tax inspectors can force tax collection to take place day and night. Then my colleague Stevan Kesejić, an SRS MP at the time, well remembered, wrote the amendment under our pressures and arguments -- that I can't tax authorities break into people's houses at night, that member has changed, or given up. In the next amendment and addition of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration was such an idea, it seems to me again to Bozidar Djelic, but a year later - that tax inspectors can carry arms, enter companies and business entities and charge taxes with a gun behind the belt. Then we went so far as to create another parody of such a member, so we said in the amendment, yes, that there should be a special table where he would put his gun down when he entered. Then under pressure, it gave up. So, don't repeat the same mistakes of your predecessors now, and it's really amazing, you know, if someone's suppressed the tax and anyone who's subject to criminal prosecution, disobeying the law, he must, if he's a well-organized state and tax authority and other competent authorities, carry the consequences for it. But now that we're family members, that's what he says to "close relatives", let's ban them from taking action that is closely related to the tax administration -- it's really not just discriminatory, who knows how much of it is now in Serbia. You know, there are now competitions for tax administration authorities in many cities. I know there's a contest in Prijepo. It's called a set of circumstances. You say yourself that you're in a deficit with the staff and that you need first of all professional, quality people. A colleague of Stevanovic, who is the author of these amendments, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, which you accepted, told you, if you remember at the beginning of the story, it is the most important human resource. Right? You will now really refuse to compete, to be employed by the tax administration as officials, because you forbid his closest relative to him to do the job. We return to the beginning of the story of a distinguished colleague, Stevanovic. How, then, are we going to preserve this most important resource in one country, which is the human capacity and potential that this responsible job should be doing? Being a tax officer isn't an easy job at all. You can blame your neighbor, my friend, the whole street, etc. If you do your job responsibly, because this one will tell you - what you came to me today, come tomorrow. These men on the ground know best in these units of local self-government that are now charging property taxes. They have to go into every house and talk to a man, see what they're gonna do and what they're gonna do. If that is the case, and if we ask them for responsibility, and that they act maximumly in accordance with the codes of their profession, then do not discriminate against their closest relatives, but accept the amendment of counterpart Mirovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15449	National MP Marina Ragush. The time available for the parliamentary group is three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15450	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I really hope you're feeling a little better today than you were yesterday. Sometimes in this House, the atmosphere becomes so heated that we all forget ourselves a little bit and forget even that human component, but I hope that all of us are truly forgiven. These are dark times, great trials are ahead of all of us, we're all on a historic mission, and we're on a major historic test whether we're going to pass it or not. This concerns both the ruling majority colleague and his opposition counterpart. I really need to thank you for finally remaining consistent with your professional work résumé and reputation. The SRS generally had no doubt that in the first place you yourself would have no interest in the people as a categorical imperative. Accepting six amendments will correct me if I fail in one, really gives us hope, pours out somewhere and trust, and it is a really strong signal that at least a good example of good practice exists, that we will all succeed together in this year, in years ahead of us, to arrange our own house independently, to resist all the pressures, to prove that we are nationalally responsible, that we are all members of still state-of-the-art parties and that we are all ahead of our own ideology, our political path to be on one mission, to build a strong national state, where citizens will be able to have a truly equal chance of living with a decent man's life. Also, what should have been an example of good practice here in this House is the next fact. I hope that Mrs. Komic, I don't even doubt it, even if she thinks about it, as well as colleagues from the ruling majority should consider the proposal that the time for an amendment of two minutes is really very little. You will not, of course, resent the members of the SRS for using, at one very important moment for the duration of our political group, of course, every possibility, in fact, the only possibility such as this Parliament, that in the time that the Rules of Procedure allowed us to disagree with certain events that really harm parliamentary democracy in Serbia. Indeed, the government should bear in mind the following. The opposition should help make life in Serbia as good as possible and as good as possible. A time of two minutes for one amendment, you will agree, too, Madam Minister, is very little for all arguments here to be presented and suggested to the authorities to make life in Serbia much better. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15451	The 27th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Finance Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Proposal to add a new member. The government has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 29a be added after Article 29. The Finance Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed a search of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want the final word? The word is Diana Dragutinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15452	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just wanted to take this opportunity to thank you for the amendments I've received. There were three groups of amendments. The first group that improved the text, it's more linguistically correct, didn't leave room for ambiguity, and that group of amendments I accepted. There was another group of amendments, which essentially improved things, and that group of amendments I accepted. There is also a third group of amendments, where I didn't know how to react, especially to Mr. Dejan Mirovic's amendment. What's gone too far? Would that amendment, would its adoption as a result have more corruption or more violations of the Constitution of guaranteed law? It seemed to me that he might be more of a source of corruption. Anyway, thank you for the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-13-0.u15453	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3). I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 18 March 2009, starting at 10.00 a.m., as a day for voting on all agenda points of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Thank you.
