ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19425	How can I answer that if I don't register? Okay. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in light of tomorrow's US Vice President's visit, which, when he comes to Belgrade, is likely to say that he has come as a friend of Serbia and of the Serbian people. It is a classic sentence, used by US politicians and their senior officials, regardless of what the Serbian people called for for a certain period, used various terms, for example. - primitive, calling our people murderers, said we should be bombed without any remorse; it will be forgotten, regardless of the consequences we see and endure every day. This visit will come and pass, he will go to Pristina afterwards, but we will have the problems that we have, because, of course, that same US has done nothing for the last 10 years to help us solve these problems or eliminate the consequences of the bombing, but the situation, from day to day, has become more complicated and are doing the opposite of what is the interest of the Serbian people and the state of Serbia. A sufficient example of this is what has been happening in Serbia's AP Kosovo and Metohija in recent months. Since the day the Albanians declared independence on our territory, i.e. Albania's national minority, irregularly, from day to day, is increasingly culminating in terror over Serbs below. In various ways, however, the latest statement, first of all, of the US ambassador to Belgrade, as well as EU envoy Peter Feith at KIM, says that there is clearly an even greater terror against the Serbs in KIM, in order to establish power, and so on. KIM authorities by the Albanian national minority, i.e. terrorists and criminals who represent that power. I will quote Mr. Peter Faith, who said this: "Kosovo, northern Kosovo is the last black hole in Europe. The work is dominated by extremists who support nationalist parties in Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia must do everything to help down EULEX to calm down and resolve the situation." I warn you, I said that yesterday and today I say one more time, the next word used in American terminology is 'terrorists'. After the extremists, terrorists are coming. When they say that, all these people of ours will be a legitimate goal for NATO and will hunt their heads. If we don't get serious as a state and don't start doing what we do, first of all, to cancel our welcome to Eulex, because they don't have the legal basis to be down there, to stop applying the SAA and not to adopt these three resolutions, including SOFA. On this agenda, we'll show that we're a banana state. My question for the Government of the Republic of Serbia is whether to answer these questions at all, and whether Mr. Peter Feith will know that in northern Kosovo they are not extremists and terrorists, but legitimately elected citizens, representatives of voters, peoples, and that he should stop hacking at them, but should, together with Serbia, organise real negotiations on KIM status once? My question for the government is that, and for the assembly majority, and that's what I'm going to end up with -- are you going to vote for SOFA, no one said it yesterday, and these two agreements with the military, or not? I'm interested, first of all, in DS and SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19426	The word has a folk MP, Dr Nikola Krpić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19427	Dear Presidents, the working presidency, honourable MPs, the Council of Military Prisoners addressed the MP's group of pensioners, the PUPS of Belgrade, asking us to help them in their efforts to be compensated under the Geneva Convention. They say this - the prisoners of war cannot in any case give up, in part or in general, the rights provided by this Convention and special agreements mentioned in the previous article, if any. This means that our country, as signator of this Convention, has taken the obligation to comply with its provisions. The force of a prisoner of war will make sure that he is satisfied after the end of his captivity; he owes the force that held him captive. This provision under the Geneva Convention was implemented by all its signatories, except for our country, Serbia. For this reason, I ask the following questions to Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Cvetkovic: How long has the Restitution Commission arrived to address the issue of compensation for the slave work of living prisoners of war and descendants of the dead World War II prisoners? The second question, which amount of the Restitution Commission has accepted for the payment of wartime prisoners of World War II and their descendants? The third question, how long did it take to solve this problem at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy? Fourth, I would like to ask that this issue, in writing, be given to the United Pensions Party, the Parliamentary Group here in the Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19428	The word is Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19429	I am particularly pleased that with us, the finance minister, Mrs Dragutinovic, is with us, because I have a question about the visit to this one that said that we are illiterate, degenerates, rapists, baby killers, butchers, aggressors. In fact, Joseph Biden's visit to Serbia is estimated to cost at least 500,000 euros. Because of Beyden, there will be a few hours in Belgrade at the airport, shops, taxi drivers will be out of work, SWAT and snipers will be on every corner, and nothing will work. Just because the airport is closed, which will be damaged for at least 20 flights and landings, streets and shops, we will have a loss of about 300,000 euros. The loss will be, of course, the GSP, shops and kiosks, citizens. It is certain that on Wednesday they too will lose several hundred thousand euros. What does it mean -- that because of a visit to this which he told us that we are criminals, Serbia loses at least half a million euros in one day? Joseph Beyden's plane will be escorted by the MiGs of Serbia's Army, which is why the airspace of Serbia will be closed. At least two hours, the airport will be closed, which means that the airport register will be impoverished for at least 20 flights. Since all the stops, all the traffic, due to the closed streets, will suffer, in fact, all the citizens of Serbia, traders who will have to close their stores, and I'm interested in where the budget money will cover the costs of this additional police security, snipers and specialists, who will take care of Biden's security? Mrs Dragutinovic, economist Zoran Popov, is convinced that this visit is too expensive for Serbia. So many security measures, welding shafts and special forces on the roof, can only be required by primitive Americans. The man says, "I lived there for a while, I'm familiar with their outbursts. The meeting will not bring concrete benefits, it is a matter of prestige and fulfillment of promises for our politicians, of which Serbian citizens will have only cost and loss. Just because of the airport's closure, due to the failure of take-off and landing, due to the closure of streets and shops," said Zoran Popov, "will be 300,000 euros in cost, not counting the cost of accommodation, security, welding and subsequent detachment of shahts". Not to mention that this act is inadmissible condescending and forgetting, injustice to the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia who died, wounded or severely disabled and have consequences after the "merciful" bombing in 1999. What's particularly interesting is the similarity of security at the time of Joseph Biden's visit and the funeral of Joseph Broz Tito. So these are two events where the only time this level of security was seen, where three security rings were placed around a person, and 300 US and about 2,000 Serbian special forces are taken care of here. I am particularly interested, this is no longer a question for Mrs Dragutinovic, this is a question for the government, in general, and for the president of Serbia, since I heard today at B 92 that Joseph Biden "reset" his views on Serbia, whatever it means – will he take this opportunity to apologize to Serbia for all that has been done, not only for his statements, but also for his activities? Will this mean a new course and a new policy in relation to Serbia, or a forced Serbia to continue to meet US requirements? What I particularly want to point out is that today, at 12 o'clock in front of the Russian Emperor, the action of all Serbian NGOs, led by the Dvors, the Nomokanon Law Association, the 1389 Organisation, will be attended by representatives of New Serbia and the DSS, and for those who did not know what Serbia was at heart, is exactly not in agreement with our political orientation, this invitation to come before the "Russian Emperor". Since New Serbia is not a party that has vengeful tendencies, I will take this opportunity to present a gift on behalf of New Serbia to the president of the DS Parliament Club, "Kosovo is Serbia", because only it can welcome the president of its own party and the person in the role of Serbian President Boris Tadic to welcome this badge in the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19430	The word has a folk MP, Dr Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19431	Dear Presidents, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask one, primarily, a life issue, but, like any life issue, this has political attributes, too, can be said, even, primarily political attributes. Before I ask that question, I want to make a note. The LDP parliamentary group will today seek an extraordinary session of the City Assembly in Nis and an explanation for the change in what has been served to voters in Nis and the citizens of Niš, as regards the South Stream of the pipeline and the entire gas arrangement. Accordingly, so is my question to the competent minister and, with a question, the clarification. The LDP's attitude is not "why not Nis". I wish there were more projects to bring well-being to both Zajecar and Paracina, where there will be a hub, Nis and other cities in Serbia. The essence of our question and the essence of the LDP Committee Group's initiative is that the competent minister, as well as the city's eyes in Nis, are giving us notice as to why everything that has been done in the matter of the gas arrangement has been kept secret, why is everything different from what was promised in the pre-election campaign? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19432	The word is Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19433	Dear fellow Members of the people, citizens of Serbia, I am using the only privilege I have as a national MP, which is to talk about what interests the citizens of Serbia. As the U.S. Vice President visits us tomorrow, it calls for a few questions. So, I'm just passing on the questions that citizens are asking us, to the MPs. Does this mean that the United States will insist on this meeting at the application of the SOFA Agreement? To those who don't know what that means, I'll use our language to say it. An agreement concerning US military troops' status in Serbia, therefore, aims to enter Serbia with the military, and this, as you know, is nothing new, as Joseph Biden was known for saying in 1999 that during the bombing of Serbia, US and NATO troops should enter Serbia in the same way as the troops of Germany or Japan did, therefore, complete occupation. Of course, they will seek good neighbourly relations with Kosovo and Metohija. Obviously, the United States has not finished its job in the Balkans, they say. The Federation of BiH is asking for a change in the constitution, asking for the suspension of Dayton, which means the revision of Dayton and the destruction of Republika Srpska, which is the product of the agreement, and a unitary arrangement. We have been warning of this for years, but we also warn Boris Tadic and the Prime Minister of what promises they will make to Joseph Biden. We ask the interior minister -- will the citizens of Serbia be able to come to work tomorrow, will the whole of Belgrade be blocked tomorrow, will this assembly work, will it be in time to inform the citizens of all this, or will we be stuck in traffic tomorrow, as he said he would no longer allow it, and that there are no gatherings that will interfere with traffic in Belgrade? Is Biden more important than all Serbian citizens who need to show their disagreement with anything that is happening in this country? Since we have heard that toilet windows in buildings used by the government are also blinded, we ask if America knows better the space of the Serbian government and whether it knows better the possibility of an assassination in that building? It may also benefit our security services to shed new light on events from the near past. So, for both you and the Home Secretary, first, will this parliament be allowed to sit down tomorrow, whether Serbian citizens have a rough day or, God forbid, you can declare the holiday on tomorrow, will you warn them of everything this witnessd Serb has been saying for years as lobbyist of Shipatarian terrorists and separatists, or will you spread his carpet from Beograd Airport to the presidency, which is likely to happen? This is something Serbia hasn't seen since Tito's age, and even at that time there was no such security. If he's welcome and brings us something good, what's security for? I believe that the citizens of Serbia would then go out with the carnations on the street, not that there is such a fear of what will happen to Joseph Beyden when he comes to Belgrade to, behold, the capital of the state that claims to have good foreign relations with his country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19434	Thank you, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. Since no one has answered any more, I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Velimir Ilic, as well as that I am in agreement with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for the session, in addition to the competent minister, Mrs Dragutinovic, whom I welcome, to be attended by Professor Dragan Vukmirovic, director of the Republic Statistics Institute, whom I also welcome. We are moving to a joint principle search of the 58th and 59th points of the agenda – Proposal for an Official STATISTICS LAW and a proposal for a Law on the List of Populations, Domesticities and ACCOUNTS 2011. YEAR A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint search on the proposal for a law on official statistics and a bill on censuses, households and dwellings in 2011, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 parliamentary group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica Group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS Group - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak for up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to file for a word, with a number of MPs, if they have not already done so. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups on these agenda points are MP Zlata Djeric, Parliament group Nova Serbia, MP Milisav Petronijevic, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, as well as MP Milan Lapcevic, the DSS Parliamentary Group, and MP Radisa Ilic, the SRS Group of MPs. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law on official statistics and the draft law on censuses, households and dwellings in 2011. Does the proposing official, Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19435	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, you have two draft laws, a draft law on official statistics and a draft law on censuses, households and dwellings in 2011. As far as the law we're proposing is concerned with official statistics, I'd just like to remind you that the applicable law was passed back in 1982. I would not like to remind you of the time it took from 1982 to 2009, in any case, there have been very major changes in the organisation of business entities, in the institutions of social activities and the organisation of state bodies. These are all the natural reasons why a new statistical law should be passed. During 2002, Eurostat, it is the EU's statistical body, and the UN's European Economic Commission developed a global assessment of the state of the statistical system in the Republic of Serbia. A global assessment report suggested that a master plan be drawn up for the development of official statistics. The objectives of the master plan are to enable the development of official statistics and to create a basis for obtaining the most significant statistical indicators, to focus the development of statistics in the direction of harmonisation with EU standards, classifications and methodologies, as well as good international practice. Finally, to promote the role and importance of official statistics in society. To achieve these goals, it was really necessary to pass a new statistical law. The draft law before you is in line with the principles and provisions of the mentioned master plan, which provides that the basic legal regulation of official statistics should form, basically, two laws. First, which is governed at the level of the state by the legal framework of the statistical institution and its activities, and second, special law, which is adopted to implement major statistical actions, such as the census of the population, the list of agriculture and the like. When drawing up the draft law, it takes into account the basic principles of official UN statistics and the code of practice of European statistics. Eurostat, of course, took part in the draft law and gave its positive opinion on the text of the law before you. The bill regulates the organisation of the system of official statistics and highlights the responsibility of the producers of official statistics. The emphasis is placed on the leading role of the Republic Statistics Institute, as a special organisation, i.e. independent and independent institution in the production, dissemination and organisation of the official statistics system. The law also envisions the establishment of a statistical council of the Republic of Serbia, which is a professional advisory body, independently, independent in its work, whose primary task is to address the strategic issues of official statistics. The Council, as an integral part of the system of official statistics, is particularly concerned about meeting the needs of the widest circle of users, about protecting data providers' rights and achieving their rights. The bill sets out that official statistics activities are based on a five-year statistical programme and one-year plans. The program brings the Assembly, and the government's plan. The specific section of the draft law regulates the confidentiality of data, since the principle of confidentiality of data is given special importance in the statistical system. The confidentiality provisions apply in all stages of the production and dissemination of official statistics. The second law you have before you is the population list law. Most countries of Europe, North America and Israel plan to implement the 2011 census to ensure optimal data comparison. The 2011 census will determine the total number of inhabitants, households and dwellings in the Republic of Serbia, as well as their schedule at lower territorial levels, districts, municipalities, cities and settlements, which will meet the needs of data users in the area of population policy, spatial planning, the realisation of general urban projects, residential-communal activity and others. This will be the first time since World War II that data will be collected about the functional ability of the person to perform daily activities at home, at work, at school. The census will be implemented in 2011, and funding funds are planned in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I ask the MPs to support these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19436	Thank you, Madam Minister. Do the officials of the committees want the word, the Legislative Committee, Mr Vlatko Ratkovic? (No) Chairman of the Committee on European Integration? (No) Did the MPs Momir Markovic, Radica Jocic and Sladjan Mijaljevic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on European Integration when considering the proposal for a law on official statistics, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word, or which one of the presidents? Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19437	We have a proposal for a law on official statistics, as the master's plan predicted, in a package with a bill on population census. First of all, I would say that people's wisdom, which defines some phenomenon or some action, is truly unconquered. When it comes to statistics, there are many and witty and picturesque definitions, of those that statistics are the greatest liar, and I would use one folk – if it were like a bikini. Maybe she best illustrates the statistics in our society. It means that it shows a lot, but from the important things very little, or almost doesn't reveal anything. There are many funny definitions of what statistical methods are, for example, the definition of average – some eat cabbage, some eat meat, on average, we all eat charm. It's not just a funny illustration, but I have to admit, and you admit, by explaining this law, that many of these definitions have many truths in them. If, in particular, the law defines the need for correct interpretation and protection of the professional credibility of official statistics, it only says that I am right when I present such a court. If I'm to present a general court on the law, then it could be called the politicization of the Bureau. This is what I will prove to you in my presentation, and your explanation that the recommendations of the European Union need to pass such a law and that it is assessed by high estimates and that, at the same time, it is necessary to avoid the influence, first of all, of politics, of political parties and of state bodies, in fact, of the fact that the law does not meet that basic condition. I'll define it right away, and I'll explain it. How can you claim, Article 10, that it is important to protect professional credibility, especially when it is threatened by the influences of a non-professional character, beginning with the state authorities, and then you have advice on which the representatives of the ministries appointed by the minister, which is always, as a rule, may have some exception, a political person sitting in a state body, which defines the detour, gives you guidance, defines a five-year plan. So, the politicization of the Institute, which you are reportedly avoiding by this legal solution, is actually carried out by Chapter 3 - the Statistics Council, which defines the position, the way in which this council is appointed. I don't believe this law will solve the basics. Statistics, as a science, as a mathematical method, would have to cover precisely the act, an act that happens in this country and is called production, social product, deficit. It's rank. You would have to give us these facts and acts of execution, of action, to give it completely objectively, in fact, not to be subject to any influence of the policy and of the state authorities, and that at correct interpretation, the work of every political party, scientist, economist, journalist, whoever used that data is based. There's no one who can say that your data is a real coverage of what's called facts. Why didn't they? You know as well as I do, because of the way some methods are applied, in which some price increases are approved and displayed by dates and deadlines. As statistical methods are used, shown and explained, it says that even when we call on the source, the Statistical Institute, we cannot safely claim that the truth, or embraces the truth, is what is shown in your reports. This law, as one of many who is new and who needs to change the world from its roots, does not really solve, but solves and consistently implements one specificity, which is called the National Bank's independence, even in terms of data and statistical coverage of certain developments concerning the National Bank. The National Bank is independent, let us define once and for all, in defining monetary policy, but it is not independent of this state, of the budget, and thus sharing fate with citizens, when it comes to wages and incomes, because as a consequence of this monetary policy, our reality is like this. The National Bank cannot be independent of fate and must share the fate of citizens, because, to a large extent, at a basic price, which is a course, it defines our destiny, so it cannot be as independent as you predicted it in terms of statistical research that it is doing, and so it is gentle to pray that the research that is doing for the needs of all of us, society, economic policy, but it is possible only in the obtained opinion of the Governor of the National Bank. For those of you who have forgotten, I will remind you, that is what the governor of the National Bank needed, and when we started, allegedly, to solve the financial crisis, by entering into the structure of banks where the state has no ownership, but if the National Bank assesses and thinks that they are disrupting a situation on the financial market and can threaten the stability of the market, then the government can enter into the ownership of these banks and bring measures, and through those of our famous Deposit Insurance Agency, famous for being the first director, when four large banks were liquidated, was Vesna Djindjic, who is now in public life again, abandoning the 'Tonnes' and resigning from the Ministry. So, the opinion of the National Bank, or governor, who sees this institution in his image, in his personal independence, but not independence from his political boss, and has frozen his function in the party. This law provides for you to pray that he gives you research, as if he invested some personal resources, some private resources, or perhaps some foreign credit resources, not resources called the National Bank of Serbia. It's already in the definition that it says whose countries this people's bank is and what data it may be if they have protection of confidentiality, which nobody wants to enter or slow down, but they can't be used to increase the importance of one man, who, by the way, has taken himself too much importance, and, for the sake of all of us and, for the sake of our known reasons, the stability of the coalition government, no one in this independence, which, in fact, does not want to enter. It's just offensive for me to define what members are. So the essence of this law is art. 10, 12 and 13. You want to protect the Department of Statistics, as an uncut producer of official and, hopefully, objective statistics, from state authorities, but you also say – especially from political parties or other stakeholders outside the system of official statistics. How do we know you didn't give the law, or in an explanation, that this director of the Bureau was exposed to unprofessional pressures by these and these groups? How will the director know that? What is this article of the 10th ever for, because we don't know what the director will do to protect the professionality of the work of the Institute and the credibility of the institution he runs? Is this only part of the general influence and the Haranga being led, not only on political parties, but through them, as an instrument of parliamentary democracy, which are the first topic if corruption is discussed? Well, does the Party Finance Act apply, well, does it fill in news columns, well, does the Anti-Corruption Body control very political parties, well, does the DRI first control political parties? Set up a law to make the operation of all the actors in this country public, available to citizens. Against that, as a member of the political party, the Serbian Progressive Party, the Forwards Club, Serbia, not that I have nothing but advocating, but you cannot prejudge any political party and identify it with non-professional pressures, from which the director of the Institute needs to protect the Institute, as the primary producer of objective statistics. I think it's not only offensive, it's fundamentally directed, which would say judges, an investigation into the wrong course, and the wrong one. Political parties are the result of a legal system in which the right is forgotten and placed lastly, in terms of respect for the Law on Contracts, respect for the Law on Privatisation and the Law on Vulnerabilities, I have pointed out the most important states in which the very incorrect influence of the state and executive bodies are courts, and trade and others, which you have had evidence in this assembly, in just two, for example, eclative examples, which have talked about the pressure not to execute judicial judgments paying workers money for unlawfully received cancellations or returning to work, the direct influence of Mr Dinkic on the Trade Court so as not to initiate bankruptcy proceedings against the debtor "draj", in which the owner of Mr Novakovic and him, old friends of Mr Dinkic, where the trustee, by law, has initiated bankruptcy proceedings. So, in a country where there are serious diseases, called systemic corruption, which is caused by the way the law is applied, by the way there are laws in which there are apparent abuse holes, you here define political parties as the first and real culprits for the fact that statistics, behold, are going to be under the pressure of political parties. But that's why we have a Statistics Council, which is one massive body, numbering 17 members, and where almost every one of the ministers of this many governments suggests that their member be on that council. I'm just asking the citizens, if they have a chance somewhere, to take a look, for example. The last few "Official Messenger" numbers, or to go to the government site and see decisions on appointments of commissions, bodies, councils, to see how many times the same name, doesn't even matter which, appears in various bodies, commissions, advices and other bodies. The citizens will be absolutely clear that the ministries can't really do the job given to them by law, because their deputies and employees are hired by commissions. That's why agencies must be set up, probably, to do the job the minister and his employees are supposed to do. How many people, proud that they were appointed to this council, went to some meetings that lasted for hours, but I would like any such committee or advice to give me a strategy they had made, or some particular document, or a law that was governed and divided by business. Maybe it's not an accident at all, or it's a completely deliberate job, division of the ministry, that people can't do their jobs, while at the same time it's said that hours and hours of working hours are spent surfing the Internet, those people who are lucky enough to be employed and have computers on their desk. There's probably this kind of waste of working time, but I consider this to be a source of politicization of the Bureau of Statistics, which is introduced by law this time and which is an unproductive waste of the useful working time of this government, which is very expensive. A number of economists have calculated that, through various taxes, contributions and taxes, every citizen of Serbia pays 150 thousand dinars annually to this government, each citizen, not a voter, not a full-time, not an employee, not an unemployed, but every citizen. Did this kind of payment for this and this kind of government result in a service that the government, in turn, gave to its citizens, will assess that handsome and legal opportunity called the elections. I also have an observation that the right to access information, as you regulate by law, once again highlights the specificity of the National Bank, where the previous consent of the governor of the National Bank is defined for the right of access. Whether there is one such protected official, a job or a party member in this country, judge the rest of you who share power with those who represent yourself as an engine and bearer of reform and change in this country. I'll take the opportunity to give you one more detail. On page 3 of the solution, you put such a sentence: "In view of the importance of the Institute as the main institutions in the system of official statistics, it is predicted that the Institute gives an opinion on the reports, draft laws and other legal acts", the key and most problematic thing is now going: "which concerns its activities and tasks". So, the Bureau of Statistics can give opinions on reports, draft laws and other legal acts concerning him. This best paints the nature of this government, which thinks only of itself and of itself and such practice conveys to the bodies it wants to, allegedly, be better regulated and regulated by business. I believe that this law is completely unnecessary and as long as statistics are used, they interpret it in this way and unless they are available to all of us who need them, not the basic ones, but the ones carried out – I don't think they deserve a transitional assessment. Article 10 is scandalous and don't defend yourself. I believe that Europe would mock this way of interpreting non-professional influences, and how important statistics are to say another definition, to which I will complete my presentation. They say – whoever has the Bureau of Statistics, at least one percent gets more in the election, or in the vote count. The Bureau of Statistics proves to us that one and one can't be two. I want you to get the Department of Statistics back what it deserves, which is accuracy, and to give us back to the citizens of Serbia the belief in information and data provided by the Department of Statistics.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19438	The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word. After him is the Messenger of Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19439	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have two laws before us, with the help of the sealing over the past decade, that is, the period when the government in Serbia took over those whose leaders were words – fair, social equality, transparency, democracy, the new era of parliamentaryism, the EU immediately, the KIM in Serbia, and what do we have today when we have to sum up the results and, I would say, "yellow" decade? That's exactly what you'll see after the 2011 census. State statistics are there to remind us from time to time, all citizens of Serbia, and to inform us that we live well, that there are worse countries than us, that people are not hungry, although they are, that they are employed, although they are not, and farmers -- that they have made extraordinary contributions on average, as statistics would say, and they cannot return half of their invested money. That's why there's that long-term coin, from a time when the communists ruled Serbia -- the statistics of our Dick, whatever you want, that painting. Some concrete examples of statistics and how it is managed, I will speak within the time it belongs to the SRS, in principle debate. I would now refer to some new members, first of all, to the draft law on official statistics, and then to the 2011 census law. So, when the bill says "official statistics", it translates into "state statistics", which paints both authorities and those who exercise power at that time. When the state manages statistics, it will guide it as it wants to present itself – in the most beautiful light in front of the citizens of Serbia, embellishing, hairing, adapting data and information, because it is a way for the state, or those who rule the state to play as ideal, something that has long been expected, as well as prosperity, especially if elections are called. At that time, consumer baskets are usually crowded, cars and real estate are purchased everywhere. Statistics record only the upcoming lines of success, and whoever listens to such information is only waiting to hear in the end what country it is, as no one will believe it is the state of Serbia. The moment official statistics publicly announce that there are hungry people in this country and how many of their numbers are, that there are more than a million disreputed workers on the street and that when they officially announce how many Serbian citizens died from the radiation of uranium bombs sent to us by the United States -- then we will also accept that statistics. Their official comes tomorrow to visit Serbia and the people recommended by the concentration camp, death, the people he kidnapped, but currently, Kosovo and Metohija. Have you, gentlemen of the Republic Statistics Institute, calculated how much damage both Biden and Solana and NATO and the EU have done to us in 1999? When are you going to collect every brick, every house, every child's tear, every drop of blood, every unsuspecting child's dream because of NATO bombers and bomb detonaters? Can any of the representatives of the government, tomorrow, show that statistics to this Beyden who insulted my Serbian people? Serbia will stop on Wednesday – because someone is coming to the crime scene. Even football games won't play, they say, for security reasons. Here, I suggest that that day neither the zoo nor the playground on the mouth – let everything in Serbia stand tomorrow, that the authorities and the wonders and worship in peace be given to the one who kidnapped KIM. Article 5 mentions the principle of impartiality. We had the opportunity to see this impartiality often, especially when the elections are being prepared, or they are in progress, at the Public Service, the one that releases the delayed footage of the National Assembly in some vampire times, after midnight, which would be said - for the third shift. The data are usually checked, those that can be used, others remain buried in the sea of other research and probes of public opinion, so if anyone finds them, finds them, and so on for years. Here we ask one question to the Minister, or to the representative of the Republic Bureau of Statistics – how to collect, process, store, display, analyze, etc. Data and information, when we can see it now in a defiled form, and this is best seen on this case that I'm going to show you, that is, all of them are, where the territorial units that have been processed are clearly listed, and what are the specific data? Here is a statement from the Republic Bureau of Statistics, believe it or not, and on it we have specifics – the Republic of Serbia, Central Serbia and Vojvodina. I ask you publicly, gentlemen of the executive authority - where is KIM here? How did someone even think to leave out Kim? In the Constitution, Article 182(2) clearly states: "The Republic of Serbia has the Autonomous province of Vojvodina and the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija". Some data regarding KiM and minimal, let them show anything, let the probe be done even in some Kosovo-Mored village, but these data must be found in a special section – the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija. We know well that our southern province, in 1999, is credited to a gentleman who will be walking in Belgrade tomorrow and visiting the past work of the 'Tomahawk' and F16, the invisible, streets of Knez Milos, occupied and given to Shiptarian terrorists for management. In this statistical list, in this form, I and all Serbian citizens want to see another section -- the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija. If we go by that logic, then the question is why did you single out Vojvodina, which is why you did not put that information under one name – the Republic of Serbia, with data from KIM? I am now publicly concerned about what will happen in a few years, since the President of the Republic of Tadic is proposing some kind of regionalisation of Serbia; while Europe is uniting, it is running some quite opposite process, it is disintegrating the Serbian state. In a few years' time, will we be able to see in some report by the Republic Bureau of Statistics the data for the Shumadian region, for Timoski, Niški, Drinski, Raski, etc.? As things stand, if the current ruling set remains in power, Serbia certainly threatens to collapse and ruin. What is also absurd in this law, especially in a situation where government ministers are scaring us with the global crisis, and it is cited as the reason for the daily layoff of workers and the great downfall in the budget, the government is proposing in this law the formation of a Statistics Council, and that of 17 members whose primary task is to give professional opinions and participate in the implementation of the 'proposal'. This means, again, needless waste of funds from the budget, same as when it comes to agencies, institutions, committees, committees, etc. In the Republic Statistics Office, there are employees who are professional and competent enough to be able to carry out all these Council tasks on their own. But in the very way of appointing members, you can see what the objective of forming this council is. Of the 17 members, 12 directly appointed by the ministers, i.e. the government, two appointed the governor of the NBS Jelasic, is the one who bought a cheap villa, probably bid, one member is appointed the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, one member is proposed by the Statistical Society of Serbia and 17 is the director of the Institute. Here are, in short, pictures and opportunities of Serbian statistics. The government, apparently through the Statistics Council, in which it appoints directly 12 out of 17 members, wants to control and direct the work of the Republic Statistics Office. Later in the principle discussion, I will return to statistics and its results. As for the draft legislation on censuses, households and dwellings in 2011, the last census was made in 2001, at a time when the offensive to Serbian enterprises, domestic banks, Serbia's Army, was launched on workers led by those who should account when the 2011 results are summed up. It may be too late for Serbia, though. I am convinced that all lines will go down a downward path, except for those that graphically depict an increase in poverty, crime, tuberculosis, suicide, cancer, sterility, etc., that I do not count. To begin the list, we need to see, above all, where the state borders of the Republic of Serbia are. I ask Mrs. Minister - how are you going to execute the list at KIM when you voluntarily hand it over to the Eulex, and they, in gratitude, literally put the ramp down to you? The Serbs in Kosovo are slowly tightening the noose around their necks, beating them, judging them, suffocating them with tear gas, and you from the government of the Republic of Serbia are silent. Then, according to some story, a hole is invented in the potsy, wrote Article 16 of the bill, under which the KIM Ministry, or Minister Goran Bogdanovic, will conduct an upcoming list of KIMs, a man who served as minister in the Rugova government, while Serbs were killed by Cypriot terrorists, which the same government was hiding and protecting. It's just amazing. By 2011, as it began, EULEX would not allow Serbs to breathe, let alone list themselves. All this, I repeat, because of the citizens of Serbia, thanks to this government, which gave the Eulex mission a green light to gently, but surely, leave to the Shiptars in a few years' time all the powers of executive and judicial authority. We have another problem that can completely disrupt the census based on this law. You from the ruling coalition need to adopt the long-prepared and disputed AP Vojvodina Statute in a few weeks. On the basis of this statute, the next day Pajkic, Prime Minister of Vojvodina, can answer you – there will be no census in Vojvodina now, but when the Regional Assembly decides. That's relatively possible. You know very well what authority you give to this statute to the Vojvodina. Gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, do you read the newspaper, do you monitor television? Do you know how long the president of the municipality, and from your DS, has been insufferable because of the unequal treatment and transfer of funds to municipalities in central Serbia? Because of the blackmail of a few MPs from the ruling coalition coming from Vojvodina, you Vojvodinas to the dinar, and beyond that, you pay off, and Nisa, Paracino, Bolovac, Zajecara, Čačka nothing, or on a spoon. Where is this equality that you burned so much while on October 5, 2000, you burned, exactly, this congregation building where we are sitting today? Do you know how the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, which gathers a large number of municipalities, where the presidents of the municipalities are exactly from the DS? Look, ask around, 'cause the municipalities in Serbia are about to go bankrupt. Now you get from the IMF three billion euros in credit. Do you perhaps wonder when you will and how that money will be returned to those who gave it to you? The economy is gone, it's sold out by your party colleagues, your workers in Serbia, because of your politics, cut your fingers, others camp outside the presidential building, third strike hunger to death, and you probably think you're doing the right thing, that you're leading Serbia into reform. These reforms will be beautifully shown in 2011, in the list of which this law speaks. Where the section is employed, in many cases a line will be drawn, and when you list citizens, list everyone, and who in their privatisation robbed the company, and how many times they strike hunger, how much they owe for electricity, for food, did they cut off any more fingers to pity their fate. Also, we do not ignore Tadic's idea of regionalising Serbia, an idea that is very dangerous for the survival of the Serbian people and the Serbian state. The President of the Republic acts just like that story where Serbia is a handful of rice. No regionalization is in question. Today, propagating it, when Serbia needs to unite and strengthen, only goes in favour of those whose eternal goal is to destroy the Serbian state in the Balkans.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19440	The People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic, after him, has the letter of the People's Parliament Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19441	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the government has decided to propose two laws regulating the area of official statistics, is the first law on official statistics and is the second law on the 2011 census. When it comes to both law and law, we consider them good laws and the SPS - JS Group will support both laws. On this occasion, I will try only briefly to address a few important issues when it comes to these two laws. First, the proposal for a law on official statistics is a law aimed at regulating the production of data and information, the organisation of a system of official statistics, and in particular the dissemination of data, information, or, in order to make it more clear to Serbian citizens, simply, the activities led by responsible statistics producers to determine and present the results of official statistics, i.e. the fact that all users of official statistics are available. When it comes to the production of data and information, the proposer maintains that it determines responsible producers of official statistics, above all, the Republic Bureau of Statistics, as the main producer of official statistics, NBS, the City Administration of Belgrade, and allows other producers of official statistics to do so, of course, those designated by the Council of Official Statistics, for which this law is intended to form. When it comes to dissemination, activity in presenting results, it is the most sensitive issue in all people when they observe this area of official statistics, precisely because these results should be shown in the right way, which this law foresees. Secondly, very important, one of the colleagues has rightly warned, these data must be available to all users and, again, also important, must be protected to the extent that other regulations provide. Therefore, every reporting unit, each data, must be protected in accordance with the intended data protection laws. You notice that I stick to the law, I'm not talking about practice, some possible abuses in practice, for the simple reason that we think official statistics make sense. Its essence is if it gives us, if it provides us with information and information on economic, demographic, social phenomena, phenomena in the field of work, environments, if it provides it to all users, from state authorities, to the most public. It should be pointed out that this information must be impartial, must be representative. Then official statistics have full meaning. If not, problems arise, issues of data abuse and information. For these reasons, I think it's very important that the law stuck to the questions I'm talking about right now. Today in the modern world there is no modern decision, there is no good decision if it is not based on data, information, statistics, but with the condition, which and the law provides, that data and information must be relevant, impartial, reliable, timely and professionally independent and, which I have already spoken of, available to the general public, protected from all possible abuses. Such official statistics make sense and it's a very important area. This bill provides a legal framework for exactly such official statistics. Very short, when it comes to the second law – on the census. The census is foreseen by the 2011 law, in April, and the last one was in 2002. I think we all know that the census is the most common and significant action of statistical order. In 2011, the law stipulates that residents, households, apartments, or housing buildings should be registered. I think it's a very important job to do in 2011, because the data, the notifications that we're going to get after the list, will also show us a number of conditions and the most important characteristics of families, agricultural households, buildings, etc. We will receive data on the size and extent of the agricultural funds used, data on ethnic, economic, educational, migration and other characteristics of the population, vital data, structural changes that took place in 2002. We're going to get data that's very important for the actively supported population, data on the person's ability to perform daily activities. I will provide you with information that is important for the actively supported population, data on the ability of the person to perform daily activities, and I think it has earned attention to clarify more detailing the data that can be excellently prepared for, as far as can be seen from this proposal, a very large list of agriculture, which has not been done since 1940, and the other data to which it can be pointed out, identify where the detailed list of agricultural populations should be followed. The law very precisely determines the obligations of all state authorities, ministries, the Republic Institute, as a business carrier, the list committees, which are the main organizers of the municipalities, which provide data. All obligations have been established. What I think should be distracted is the great responsibility of all these entities to make preparations in time, to do the job in the best possible way. I'll conclude what I started, it's a very important action of the census, for reasons, I repeat, which has no good decision, no good programme, no good policy, no good direction of development of Serbia unless it's based on real data and information and statistics, of course, reliable, impartial, cleansed, without influence on the side. We expect both laws to provide a legal framework for such official statistics, and that the authorities will carry out all preparations in the coming period and finish this very big job in 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19442	The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19443	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, would be very interesting to see the statistical processing of one day of these assembly sessions, above all, when we look at the classification of agenda items, or the agendas proposed at these assembly sessions. These two laws are naturally and logically one item of the agenda, but it was neither natural nor logical, nor well-intentioned to, say, the previous 15 laws of agriculture, as important areas, process the same as one item of the agenda. This shows the true power or inability of statistics and that, from a certain point of view, statistics can show everything equally important. Statistics, as someone has already said, are, in fact, the possibility of someone's wishes being portrayed as some of the relevant facts. What's interesting about these two laws, first of all, is to define what's extremely important, the official statistics law deals with data production, and the second law on the agenda today is the census law. In both legislative projects, i.e. the bill, we see that they have a good intention behind them, that they have a lot of good solutions, but that they will not be able to be fully applied. Why? Because these laws will not be able to deal with 15% of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or KIM, regardless of what the census law declares it will. That's completely impossible. These statistics, which should be descriptively presented to Serbia to the world, to provide accurate, relevant and impartial data, as otherwise the law declares that there are ten principles, including these two, will not be presented in such a light, as it is impossible to carry out any statistical examination, or statistical research in the KIM territory at a time like this and in this state. We all know that. First of all, the population census law, Article 2, did not clearly determine the relationship to KIM. In Article 11, which lists the ministries to deal with the census, the KIM Ministry said, and Article 16 definitely determined that the KIM ministry would implement the list at KIM. We'd really like to see which municipalities, which way, which means, which tools, which data we're going to get afterwards, because the latest data on the 2002 census doesn't have any KIM municipalities, they don't have any KIM data. That data is incomplete. These data do not have validity, because they can be manipulated, just as they have been manipulated for decades in these areas of KIM and the population list, or through the failure of the census, which has contributed to the situation that we now have been in, that we do not have an accurate view of the population, the number of inhabitants, that at this point no one knows how many Albanian populations really live on KIM, because they have never allowed to be listed, precisely because there is a simulation of the presence, of real houses in which no one lives, popularly said – Podkin's villages; there is building chaos, which should simulate the huge density of population. Of course, all of these created a rather problematic situation in the country, a restless and dreary area in, in general, world politics, which everyone began to deal with. As far as we have information, tomorrow our unwanted guest, Mr. John Biden, will come to keep his letter on what he has to say to the Balkan boys, as they see the situation in our country, as they expect us to do further so that they will be satisfied. All of this should be legalized and we should create an illusion that we can really finally have a statistically precise, defined, relevant, clear data on where and how we live, because from a descriptive method we will be able to analyze and show that we are following everything that is important to the lives of Serbian citizens. The census, which is due to be implemented from 1 April to 15 April 2011, that in 2012, all data should be made available and publicly published, should show everything that is important in Serbia, so that anyone who wants to cooperate with Serbia, in any way, that in any way, economic contact, which interests us, and even any other contact, can receive certain quality data, which will be fully identical to what is a real picture. If 15% of the territory isn't covered by that data, that data isn't accurate, it's not true, and then everything else loses on its significance and truth. For those 15% of the territory that won't be processed, no matter how much we try to claim it will, I'd really like to see the tools and resources that will work on KIM, and 15% of the lack of real and accurate data all other data relatively. What we have missed with these two laws is that all of Serbia, these laws on statistics and censuses, will also determine how accurate, possible and enforceable these laws will be. So statistics have a certain power and a certain impotence. We have official statistics and in the name of the law is official statistics, which immediately points us to the fact that there are unofficial statistics. It's a statistic that serves manipulative purposes, whose witnesses we witness every day, when research is published, like research that agencies need to form public opinion. These are the agencies dealing with the method of random sampling, so they have been free of any kind of responsibility, but they have long caused serious damage to their operation and to the creation of certain images and certain deliberate thinking in the population. Official statistics should give us official answers to questions – who we are, what happens to us, how true we are, what we truly own, what our national structure is, what our educational structure is, what our property structure is, what our working structure is, and what every citizen has as a personal map at this point. That is what these two laws should, by adopting and implementing, later, create and make possible in Serbia. I sincerely hope that until their final application, until the final census of 2011, first of all, the Ministry of KiM will exist, that the rest of the ministries and the government will find ways, although I do not see in any way, they have not yet declared themselves in any way, that this list, first of all, in Kosovo, will indeed be the exact sum of the exact data, and not like that comic phrase, that statistics, in fact, are the exact sum of the incorrect data. We need an exact collection of accurate data. There it is necessary to draw the line once and say and know how long Serbia and Serbia must determine it. Calculation on where and how long Serbia can make a list of its population is very important, and when you look at the official website of the Statistics Institute, you will see that there is a map of Serbia, that Serbia is together with Kosovo and Metohija, and then, in the data where the 2002 census is published, there are no municipalities from KIM, there is no census. It is very important that the citizens of Serbia know that because of the manipulation of these two laws after the possible manipulation of the Law on the Election List. We expect someone in the public of Serbia to come up with a clear strategy – what Serbia truly has, as long as Serbia is ready to defend its Constitution with guaranteed rights, principles and territories and all legislative proposals that come clearly from the Constitution and rely on the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19444	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19445	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, these two laws, the law on official statistics and the law on censuses, which are on the agenda today, are logically connected to the agenda points and I will try to speak briefly about their essence in the course of my time, but also what information is provided by the official statistics and the list of the population to be in 2011. According to Article 2, official statistics provide, on unbiased grounds, numerical and representative data and information on mass economic, demographic and social phenomena and phenomena in the field of working and living environment, for all users, economic operators, associations, state authorities, etc. Statistics follow the general social phenomena and, based on them, the citizens of this country receive information on the direction society is heading, in which our economy, economy, but also in which direction the structure of the population of this country is moving. Statistics also provide us with a number of useful information that can be used as a way to compare the success of various strategies and decisions that state authorities carry out throughout history. Comparing data from the 1950s and today, we can come up with facts that we cannot talk about how successful the various strategies and reforms implemented by this society were and where we are now. According to 1948 data, the population in Serbia accounted for over 900,000 active agricultural populations, or 68%. The population was inhabited in about 5,000 villages, while today it is estimated to be 200 fewer, and according to the number of inhabitants in those settlements, the number of these villages is estimated to be more than 300 for the next 20 to 30 years. So far, literally, it has disappeared from the geographical map of 17 villages, and below 10 residents currently live in 19 villages, and less than 40 in more than 220 villages, which will say that the number of inhabitants in these villages will disappear completely in 15 to 20 years. It's some general trend that tells us where this society is headed. This is also illustrated by the text that came out the other day in "Politica", author Vladimir Nikitovic of the Center for Demographic Research of the Institute of Social Sciences, which says that the trend of industrialization of the country in the 1960s has withdrawn a large number of residents from the village to the cities. However, what has been the paradox of the last 10-15 years, this population not only has been moving from village to town, but is now grouping and creating three major centres, Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis and the only three cities in our country have a trend in population growth, and almost all other cities and smaller municipalities are recording the decline trend of the population, which can only talk about what direction society is heading and how devastating is the policy of centralisation and general trend of demographic emptying in territories that are strategically important for the country of Serbia. Of course, it is widely known that the most populated areas in the Southeast Serbian state are also directly linked to the general economic indicators, which say the smallest average income of residents in municipalities in southeastern Serbia, and that of the 15 last municipalities by number, according to the income structure, below 19,000 dinars, 11 of them are from Southeast Serbia's territory, and among the top 15 municipalities in Serbia there are 10 municipalities from Belgrade's territory. It is logical that in each country the capital draws both the largest number of inhabitants and the highest standard, but it is completely illogical that this ratio at the level of income is 1/4. For example, in New Belgrade, there is an average salary of 49,000 dinars, and in the White Palanca there are only 12,000 dinars, more than 1.4. When data are added on the number of unemployed people, the picture is even more drastic, and data can also be compared that the number of working people, i.e. the number of unemployed in Belgrade, is less than 6% of the total population, while, for example, in Nis, that percentage is almost 15%, and in Vranja and Leskovec – over 25% of the total population is unemployed. As far as the law itself is concerned, he speaks of Article 6, that the producers of official statistics are the Republic Statistics Institute, the National Bank of Serbia, the City Administration of Belgrade, for the territory of the city of Belgrade, and all other responsible producers of official statistics, listed in the five-year statistical programme. So, only this 6th figure suggests how the role of the capital is potentiated, that the City Administration of Belgrade is designated as the producer of official statistics, in the same rank as the Republic Bureau of Statistics, and is particularly numbered, while the other statistics producers are listed as others. Official statistics also say that more than 40% of all receipts in the Republic of Serbia are being divided into Belgrade, more than 60% of the total money being turned over in Serbia, also in the city of Belgrade and surrounding municipalities, leading to an even more drastic migration of the population from the area, in particular, southeastern Serbia and poor municipalities, towards municipalities that are more rewardingly powerful and where work can be found, especially towards the city of Belgrade. This also suggests that around 1,700,000 people live in Belgrade and that, compared to the 2002 census, that number is higher by about 150,000 people, which means that every year, from 2002 to today, some 20,000 residents from various parts of Serbia have moved to Belgrade, which will say that every year the city of the size of Vlasotinac or Brussa has moved to Belgrade. This is what these statistics say, and they also say that if compared and the data that natural growth in the city of Belgrade is negative, then the number of newborns, compared to the number of deaths, this figure of 20,000, is average, people who migrate to Belgrade and greater than is said in this way, is dry. It only speaks of the generalisation trend of the state, that almost every state institution and state body is located, with its headquarters, in Belgrade, that the entire state administration is located in Belgrade, that the headquarters of all agencies, all state bodies, all public enterprises, except NIS, which is located in Novi Sad, is also located in Belgrade and, of course, no wonder why the receptions in Belgrade are the largest, why 20,000 people, or one city, move to Belgrade annually. Just because they can't find a job in their place, because they don't have the basic conditions for living in underdeveloped and less developed municipalities. If the data compares with the level of infrastructure development, the availability of various institutions, education, health services, culture, these data are even more devastating and this trend will unfortunately have devastating consequences throughout Serbia. It particularly irritates data and information in recent months that the cost of the state, based on loans that the state will raise, will be built a metro in Belgrade and a new bridge from Zemun to Borca, and another bridge that will connect Pancevo with the other coast of Belgrade is planned. It will all be built in Belgrade. This job will be found by people who live here, and the population from the endangered parts of Serbia will have to come to Belgrade to find their existence, and will leave their villages or small municipalities forever and will, of course, never return. These trends in demographic discharge of certain Serbia's territories are most dramatic in the Serbia-KIM administrative line, in the Stara Planina area and in the area around Vlasina and Vlasin Lake. There, according to data, statistics, 17 villages have disappeared in the last 20 years, and in many, ten to 15 people over 60 are going to live, saying that in the next ten to 15 years, and these villages will completely disappear. The most dramatic example is the village of Vukojevac in the municipality of Kursumli. I quote the text published by the Republic Institute for Demographic Research: "The last resident was Marko Miskovic, who, like his locals who have moved to Barajevo in the last 20 years, left forever. He couldn't even turn off the light, as it is said, because this village never even had electricity, although it was created somewhere during the Berlin Congress, about 1890. During our research, we had a problem locating the village and, with the help of members of the police intervention unit, which provided our research, we finally managed to determine where Vukojevac was, given that 49 houses were drawn on the topographic map in his ata. During the 1980s and 1990s, peasants sold their housing to Albanians as construction material. They took everything, the houses and all the material into the neighboring villages of the Podujev Municipality. It has gone so far that the entire foundations have been taken away, so there are no more traces of human existence on those hills. On the ground, the only traces of the former population were the healed rural cemetery in the oak forest and the order of the plum trees, according to geomorphologist Milosevic. This is more than a picturesque representation of where this country is going and what will happen to many settlements and borderline, but also in other parts of Serbia, which are economically threatened, where, unfortunately, today very few people live, and that, mostly, over 60 years old, where there is not a single young man and where no child will be born in the coming years, but those settlements will completely die, and let, like this Vukojevac, be completely deleted from the map of Serbia. Official statistics, whose law is on the agenda, need this kind of data much more often to present to the officials of this country and the authorities, in order to do something to make things like this easier and, in due course, to stop, and to get back to the old ones, it's probably hard to talk about. That is why, while the long-arranged route of the South Stream, which is supposed to go logically through Corridor 10, along the highway to Nis, along the highway to Belgrade, continues to go north, it will suddenly, overnight, change and now, according to the latest information presented yesterday by the director of "Srbigas", Mr. Bajatovic, this route will go from Bulgaria to Zajecar, beyond, probably, the Homoli Mountains, towards Belgrade, and the hub will be in the area of Batajnica, as well as the planned gas power plant of 450 megabytes, which should have been located in the wider territory of Nis. This only makes the story and picture more difficult about how negative it will affect general trends in society and how much everything that is going on in this country will affect everything being sown in Belgrade, that all economic movements will move to Belgrade and that the population that lived in even larger municipalities and cities, since they cannot find a job there, will have to seek their arrest in the capital. We will be harsh against it and we will ask the state authorities and the government of the Republic of Serbia to reconsider that decision, we will also look for answers to questions about who made the decision to change the route of the pipeline and move the gas hub for Serbia to Belgrade. The government announced that, according to what I said, it would pass a law on even regional development and the ministry, which created the law, set off in a campaign in Serbia to promote the law. In that law, apart from statistical regions and agencies, which will be the parapartite authorities of the party leading the ministry, there will be nothing out of even development. I ask the Director of the Statistics Institute to present such difficult and sobering data on Serbia's dreary demographic picture to officials and the Serbian government, in order to do something to improve this dreary image. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19446	Do any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? (No) According to Article 93, parliamentary groups have applied for a word in writing. We move on to the debate, and according to the order of the MPs and according to the application for a word in the joint principled search on the drafts of the laws referred to in paragraphs 58 and 59 of the agenda. The first registered speaker is MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19447	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say that statistics, in the broadest sense, are actions involving the collection, processing and distribution of data of general interest. This is, after all, defined and defined in Article 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is also the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. In real life, when we want to plan and when we want to work, we always have to come from certain parameters, from certain data that are relevant, whether it's micro-communities, whether it's local self-government, businesses, agricultural cooperatives, NGOs. So, always in certain activities, we have to start with certain data. This is the importance of statistics, which in a professional, professional and impartial way collects, processes and distributes data of general interest. The proposal for a law on official statistics is based, as we heard, on a master plan adopted at the end of 2002. What's one of the definitions of this master plan is the adoption of one systemic, trial law, and that's exactly the law we're discussing, the law on official statistics. The second segment of the activity, concerning the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is the adoption of laws implementing certain statistical programme actions, such as the census or the list of agriculture. The solutions contained in the proposal for a new law are at an intensity of standards already in place in the EU. They are largely harmonised with them, whether as regards the collection methodology, the participating entities, the authorities responsible for the identification, processing and distribution of statistical data. It is important to point out that official statistics are the main source of information needed to look at the situation and make decisions that are significant in various areas of social life. I'll say just a few areas, these are economics, urbanism, the protection of the working environment and the environment, the monitoring of demographic movements, as well as many other areas, areas of culture, etc. I'll remind you that we've passed a series of laws in the field of ecology, in the area of agriculture. In order to implement all these laws, we have to have an organized, professional and impartial system of collecting certain data, because it is important for the implementation of all these laws. Perhaps this matter, as far as statistics are concerned, is not so attractive, in some political sense, for the media or for some wider layer of citizenship, but it is extremely important, because investors, local self-government, companies, therefore, all entities in economic, cultural and economic life must have relevant data when planning certain activities. What makes the quality of this law is that it makes a distinction between official statistics and other types of statistics. One of the esteemed colleagues noted the research of public opinion carried out by certain media houses, etc. In my opinion, it's not about unofficial statistics when such research is done, it's something that's in the domain of journalism, journalism, etc. Unofficial statistics can be a study of certain social organisations, professional associations, examples of work, the Doctors' Association of Serbia or the Chamber of Commerce, etc. Official statistics are the ones that are regulated by this law and this law clearly norms both organs and methodologies and the relationship between these bodies and entities in the production, dissemination and processing of these data. This law is necessary for our legal order, it is necessary for our citizens, it is necessary for all entities involved in economic life, first of all, local self-government. In this context, one of the programming laws is also the census law that will be implemented in April 2011. With regard to the census, we have a relatively rich tradition. I would like to remind you that in the Principality of Serbia, in 1834, the so-called a list of people. We had a census between the two world wars in 1921 and 1931. Then, after the end of World War II, we had a census in 1948 and every 10 years since 1961 we had censuses. The census was not carried out in 2001, for the reason that budget funds were not provided, so it was implemented in 2002. So in this decade, from 2002 to 2011, we need to have a clear and accurate overview of all relevant data concerning, firstly, the demographic structures of our country and our society. It is important to point out that in the countries of North America, the countries of Europe, as well as Israel, it is also envisaged for the 2011 census, so that the methodology and way of data collection are compatible with the standards in these countries. Statistics and statistics collected by statistics are not their own goal. They are always in the function of certain social entities, economic operators, economic operators, government bodies, state authorities, and therefore it is necessary to support the solutions contained in the law on official statistics and in the census law. It's about technical laws, but extremely important for our legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19448	The word is a folk's letter from Alexander Ilic, and after it, the Messenger of Radisha Ilic. It's the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19449	The Honored Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, statistics, as a field of mathematics, deals with the collection, analysis, interpretation, explanation and presentation of data. It's the basis of every law that deals with statistics. The law lays down a legal framework for the production and supply of data and information, which is also contained in this law on official statistics. The necessity and speed in the adoption of this law stems from our obligation to the IMF, metadata for the Republic of Serbia have been on the IMF site since 1 May 2009. In this way, the Republic of Serbia has become part of the general system for the dissemination, i.e. the delivery of data. What should be pointed out as the most important? Official statistics shall provide, on an impartial basis, numerical and representative data and information on mass economic, demographic and social phenomena and on developments in the field of working and living environment for all users. In order to be complete, accurate and without any reservation, these numerical and representative data and information must be based on impartial grounds. If there is no purely professional approach, impartiality and expertise, we cannot talk about representative data and information as explicit facts. It is therefore necessary to pay particular attention to the activities of responsible producers of official statistics in the collection of data relevant for official statistics. The responsible official statistics producer, as a state body, i.e. an institution responsible for the collection, production and publication of official statistics, must be depolitised to access the resolution of its obligation, in particular to access the data collection organisation professionally and objectively. In that sense, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. The proposal for a law on official statistics, which will be more detailed once the debate on the law is discussed in particular. I want to point out that it is not fully clear why Belgrade is singled out as a special unit of official statistics producers compared to other cities in Serbia. If the city administration of Belgrade is covered, there is no reason for this special separation in relation to other cities, which, as responsible producers of official statistics, would surely contribute fully to the performance of statistical activities by participating in the field. It is not right for other cities, besides Belgrade, to be in the second plan and fall under other responsible producers of official statistics if the Council for Statistics of the Republic of Serbia puts them on its list, because the Council, under this law, sets out a list of other responsible producers of official statistics. All I have stated is that official statistics would not be the exact sum of incorrect data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19450	The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word. It is the last registered speaker in the order of MPs in the application for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19451	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I continue the discussion on behalf of the SRS on the draft law on official statistics and the draft law on censuses, households and dwellings in 2011. Now we're going to do some statistics and on concrete examples we're going to show the citizens of Serbia what brought them the burning of the Assembly, pounding into pots and kicking cardboard boxes on October 5, 2000. I must admit that I was a little surprised by some data, but not in terms of positivity, but in terms of a difficult one, I would say, an unexplainable, absurd situation in which Serbia, its economy, its population, agriculture, etc. When it comes to methods used by official statistics, i.e. the Republic Bureau of Statistics, I ask the Government's representatives, whether the same methods are used by some marketing agencies that investigate public opinion, their relationship with some topical or social status of a target group. I'm asking this because I often get a chance to get the Republic Statistics Office to give one piece of data, and some agency is quite different, and it's the same thing. Then who's right about that? As far as the proposal for a law on official statistics is concerned, I will quote Article 2(2), and about a problem that has shaken central Serbia and that I believe that the Republic Statistics Institute should have taken part. Therefore, Article 2 of Article 1: 'The official statistics shall provide, on an impartial basis, numerical and representative data and information on mass economic, demographic and social phenomena in the field of working and living environment, for all users', including state authorities, or representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, official statistics should in one particular case, which I will explain, be dealt with in time and, at the expense of the state authorities, examine public opinion in the Pomorava County on the issue of possible construction of a facility for the physical-chemical treatment of hazardous waste near Ćuprije. I think that the public in Serbia is seriously informed about this problem, that the local government in Turkey, above all, representatives of the DS, want at all costs to in Serbia, because it is a condition of the EU, to install a waste treatment plant, which will annually treat 43,000 tonnes of hazardous waste, and among them liquid cyanide, as a blood poison. Today we had the opportunity to read in "Politica" a edition for Serbia, that the State Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection had received information from the European Office that he had already received assurances from local authorities that such a thing had already been approved in the local parliament. Officially, I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what does the local government in Turkey do? The Assembly's session on this issue was not even held, because dissatisfied citizens literally surrounded SO Mupri; it happened on February 27th, it happened yesterday. Let no one play with the future of our children, the health of our citizens. Many were puzzled by this problem, especially in central Serbia. Someone plans to install the facility in the trig of Cupri, Paracin and Jagodin, next to Velika Morava, there may be MPs from Kruševec right next to the huge plantation of the Rubin vineyards of over 100 ha, in the midst of the agricultural goods Dobričevo, 700 ha, and it is simply amazing what the current government in Serbia does. I warn you to take care of the citizens of Serbia. In all of Pomoravlje petitions against irresponsible authorities in Turkey and citizens are widely signed, regardless of party membership. They're all scared for their children. If the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina could decide in 2003 to ban the construction of such a facility on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, why not also representatives of local self-government in the so-called area. Central Serbia? Take, for example, what official statistics on the existence and business of foreign companies in Serbia say, especially from former republics of the former SFRY. The data has been worse since the end of 2007. There were over 600 companies and companies from Slovenia and Croatia in Serbia at the time, and three Serbian companies were operating in those countries. It was probably worth an apology to the black country for such a good score, as it is said, both Mesic and Sanader, and for whom not everything, by the president of Serbia. Then they brought in Croatian tycoons to take our agricultural land for a bagatella, to destroy this little bit of what's left of the food industry in Serbia. So much for reciprocity. Here's another information from February 2008. At auctions, tenders and the capital market, 2,200 companies and businesses were sold in total, for nearly two billion and 700m euros, and it is well known that these companies were worth close to 70 billion euros. Now, this is one sequence that, with other statistical depictions, will complete the image of the character of the government and the Democratic Break, within this, as I called it, the 'yellow' decade, from 2001 to 2011. The situation is even scarier when we look at how many firms are in bankruptcy, where, like a pattern, business premises, bars, construction and agricultural land are stolen. Statistics only record it dryly, so it says that at the end of 2007, there were 1,792 companies in bankruptcy, liquidation, for 400 more than in 2006. What's it like now, when we got caught by this so-called. The global economic crisis, we can only imagine. The people, before this last election, were promised 200,000 new jobs by the President of the Republic, and now something contrary to the promised one is happening. Now, here you are, gentlemen of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, calculate, give us the information – how many months in Serbia workers are left out of work on the street, while government officials are just multiplying, whether it's institutions, or agencies, spending their pardons on state money. We also have opportunities to see in this law some advice for statistics, which will have a new 17 members. The workers, literally, should take the sticks, on the advice of the President of the Republic, to keep their jobs. Just don't let the President of the Republic forget that under the window of the Presidential Building, they've been camping for half a year, if I may say so, workers of the slave houses of Belgrade, looking for what belongs to them. Statistics have processed another area nicely. Unfortunately, the results are alarming and warning, as far as leaving the country's youth. By October 5th, those who were in opposition spoke of the former regime, such as former communists for the rotten Yugoslavia, that thousands of young people had fled the country, looking for a job and some kind of existence, and the main passwords after October 5th were "work for young people", "valued diplomas", "new projects in Serbia", "openness", "transparency", "no robbery", "no crime", etc. However, only after two years, total disappointment occurs, especially young people. Individuals who chased these young ones into a burning congregation building made them sell sugars, cements, ironworks, shipyards, business spaces, filled their pockets with accounts from those famous exotic islands. That's why there's a new wave of dissatisfaction and hopelessness. Here, it's 2009. You've been ruling Serbia's maltene for a decade. Explain to me and to the citizens, first of all, to the young, how it is in the 'golden age', as you say, democracy, at the time of your reign, so-called 'Golden Age', so-called 'Golden Age'. "yellows" decades, so many young, literally, fled the country from you, and that number is about 100,000 young? This is a job for statistics, but not just to give us a smut of state, but an explanation for this country's mismanagement. Now you probably find those billboard paroles across Serbia, which were once placed ahead of the election - "Work Now", "Because Life Can't Wait", "Because Job Can't Wait", etc. But here's what statistics say quite differently. Let's see what the statistics on industrial production say, I don't know which, if at all, exists in Serbia in March 2008 - March 2009. In just a year, industrial production records a decline of as much as 14.2%, i.e. one week. Here's another example from the 'yellow' decade about the success of the 2000 Bulldozer Revolution. Serbia's unemployment rate is negative 14% in October 2008. Based on this statistical data, we can conclude that the workers disobeyed the President of the Republic to keep their jobs with the poles, since apparently no one took it seriously. The question now is – where did those promised 200,000 jobs get lost? Let's also look at how it moved, based on data from the Republic Statistics Institute, average monthly household spending. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the average monthly household consumption was 43,295 dinars, and the net profit in the economy in March was 27,485 dinars, provided that you preserved your job with the help of the stick. It's in households where at least one of them works, and the other family members get along as well as they know it. There are often cases in Serbia that the entire family lives on one single pension of one of the residents and that after his death there are no more regular inflows. Now I will repeat one case from Glogovec, a village near Jagodina, where the daughter-in-law kept her dead mother-in-law for almost a year, only to receive her pension, to have a family to live on. It's really Serbia, it's dreary, but that's what it is. To be honest, I thought the data from the Republic Statistics Institute would be more moderate and more acceptable to the ruling group in Serbia, but they are truly devastating, although I thought they were even worse than what we could read on the website of the Republic Statistics Institute; they were slightly modified, to ease the poor picture of the economic situation in the country of Serbia anyway. On this occasion, I would like to meet the public in Serbia that the Republic Statistics Institute is a winner and a world recognition. What's this about? In early 2009, the Republic Statistics Institute shined in the world's starry sky, because it was awarded for its project, along with 12 other projects from around the world, in the context of a competition designed and organised by this bank. Dear People's MPs, do you know which project they were rewarded for in Washington, so Shigeo Katsu, World Bank Vice President for Europe and Central Asia gave them the award? The project is certainly not about rich society, security, youth employment, scientific innovation. A project has been awarded on what we have in Serbia in abundance, which is poverty, and the full name is "The Project for Finding Poverty in Serbia". That's where we came from. We're being designed to see how far they've brought us so-called. Democratic forces, transparency, "fair", "because life can't wait" and that's another example of the past work of revolutionaries. According to the project – of the poor, there are even poorer, and the poorest are those living in the country, uneducated, refugees and displaced persons. In April 2009 – April 2008, the consumer price index increased by 8.8% and the price to a small 10%. Compared to December 2008, the index increased by 7%, which clearly points to inflation, as well as to the deterioration of the population's position, due to rising prices in the future. I would now return to a very important item, which the Republic Statistics Institute has shown in a very vivid and clear way, and thus only confirm what the SRS has been saying to Serbian citizens long ago. So, the Republic Statistics Institute tells us, based on relevant data, that the total foreign trade exchange of the Republic of Serbia for the period January-March 2009 is down 34.6%, compared to the same period of the previous year. This is the best proof of our economy and how ministers do their duty. In numbers it looks like this. Dollar goods -- goods worth $1,666,800,000 were exported, and imported for $3,501,200,000, which means the deficit is billions and $834 million. Exports of goods – 1.276,300,000 euros and imports – 2,682,900,000 euros, representing a deficit of 1 billion and 406m euros. Next, we come up with an amazing data, which is that our main foreign trade partners in exports were Germany – 194.5 million dollars, Bosnia and Herzegovina – 188.4 million dollars and Italy – $179.1 million. Now we all have to wonder where Russia is? Who is responsible in the executive authorities for this situation, specifically, regarding Russia? Why is there no larger volume of exports to Russia, when we have something to offer there, which is food, or agricultural products? Who is this minister, or who is this civil servant who prevents powerful Russia from imposing great burdens and duties, from contacting our farmers, who would surely sell their products to them? More tragic, even absurd, the traffic of goods would be carried out under the most favourable customs regime, favourable to Serbia, based on a bilateral free trade agreement that exists between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Serbia. So many agricultural products, fruits, vegetables, meat, milk, etc. Failing or selling to bagatel buyers by a Serb peasant, all of which could end up on the Russian market. Let's remove the barriers, let the Russians get to the Serbian peasant, if we are to survive and live with dignity from our work. As for imports, the main foreign trade partners are Russia, with $561.4m, and then Germany – 398m, Italy – $320m. As far as Russia is concerned, it's understandable, because of the imports of energy, oil and gas, and I repeat, it's quite realistic. Statistics, he also says, and I repeat, the image and opportunity of the authorities, all those ministries and ministers who are full of the success of our economy, our agriculture, etc., with how many countries in the world we have achieved surplus, pay attention, in interstate trade. For the sake of illustration, there is an official recognition in the world from the UN, as many as 192 states, experts and other democratic experts, who are eloquent, transparent, European undersigned, have achieved the result above all expectations. Serbia has achieved a surplus, believe it or not, according to the Statistics Institute, even with three countries on the entire globe, with Montenegro, Macedonia and BiH. I don't know what their balance with other countries is, but this is a bit of a disaster. And you, gentlemen of the government, with these indicators you want in the EU, with numbers like this. This one is really funny, although it sounds better – the sad data of our reality. May the government in Serbia not interfere with the fact that the state register is empty, that there is nothing left to sell and that soon the social rebellion will be poured over into the streets of Serbian cities. Here's another statistical example of absurd reality in Serbia. On the basis of relevant data from the Republic Statistics Institute, a list of the first 10 products Serbia exports and collects from foreign exchange inflows is drawn up. First of all, exporting men's clothes, worth $34 million. I believe this, and I trust all of you, a little strange, because in recent years there has been so much information about the collapse of the textile industry in Serbia, Malta, as if it doesn't exist at all. We can see that statistics say something different. The second place takes up the export of raspberries, with 19 million dollars earned, and that's logical, given the quality and demand of the raspberries growing in our premises. But speaking of raspberries, some farmers who deal with the cultivation of this variety know that the EU prescribes quotas for certain countries in which it will produce raspberries. Serbia annually produces 80,000 tonnes of raspberries, and as far as we know, the quota will be about 15,000 tonnes. As far as the raspberries growing in our areas are concerned, they're agricultural products, it's realistic that we're making some kind of foreign exchange inflow. Serbia is a agricultural country, so something like that was expected. However, among these 10 products, from agricultural products exported other than raspberries, only corn was found, with only $16m being sold and corn in fifth place. Now I wonder where the fruit is, where is the vegetables, meat, milk, that Serbia produces in large quantities? I wish the Minister of Agriculture was here right now, so he could tell me why so many loans and subsidies distributed to farmers over the past decade? So where are the results, where is the export, so Serbia can benefit? Now we see how dedicated these loans were. We remember all well what Mr. Christin said here last week, just about these loans, when he cited an example of how one year 180 million dinars of credit were allocated to build a irrigation system. Instead of the 180 million being distributed to 60 users, three million each, it was done, believe it or not, the opposite and only three users received 60 million dinars. We suspect they were used on purpose. These funds that have been taken, the question is where they ended up and for what purposes, because it is obvious that the results, according to official statistics, are not available. You probably all remember the case of former Minister Rastete-Vukosavljevic, whose father-in-law seemed to have taken credit for the launch of agricultural production, and in fact, it was an uplifting of a large catering facility, which had nothing to do with agriculture. Speaking of which, most often on the party line, these loans were shared, I'll remind you of one, I could say, and a comical case, which happened in 2007, in the parliamentary election campaign, after the adoption of a new constitution. Minister Mladjan Dinkic, visiting a farmer in the area of Jagodina, in particular, in the village of Ribara, which took the bulls' shelter from the loan, showed all his expertise to representatives of politics, journalists and the people present who followed him. Not realizing that he is on the bull farm, Minister Dinkic, all embroiled and joyful, offered such an official offer to the press, the host of another loan, to extend, as he said, to round up the production process, by buying from these funds urgently, believe it or not, cow husband appliances. The host was looking at the minister a little confused. It's awkward for a man to tell the minister that there are only bulls on the farm around them and that they didn't need machines for their husband. Everyone looked at each other, laughing, but it's a campaign -- who's going to know a bull cow now, even if it's a minister. You know what's weirdest, what's in this list of the first ten products, which is made up of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, threw into the shade and wheat, and fruits, and plums, and meat production, vegetables, etc.? Believe it or not, in the eighth place they found themselves, listen well, hulahop socks. For their exports, Serbia received ten million dollars. What's in this logically next? What's the conclusion? Let the farmers raise their hands from the farm, from the plastics, from the orchards, because of that, apparently, there is no idea, and let them begin by the villages to build halahop stockings. What else does a man have to say to these results offered by statistics? At the beginning of the presentation, I pointed out that the SRS is absolutely opposed to the establishment of the Statistics Council, which are members from 13th to 17th, because it will be only an instrument of assistance that the government will control this significant institution. For the SRS, all state institutions are responsible for any matter, including the producer of official statistics, as opposed to the proposed solutions in Article 6. It's a bill of law. In this way, it can be interpreted that the state institution can sometimes be responsible, and sometimes it does not, or it does not need to be legally emphasized, because it is understood. Then besides every organ, any function mentioned in any law would have to stand for the word "responsible", which is pointless. The question now arises – how will this director of the Institute, based on Article 10, protect the professional credibility of official statistics? How will he not be threatened when this director is headed by a Council of 17 members, 12 of whom are directly appointed by the Government? How will this director protect official statistics from the influence of state authorities, in this case, Government? That is why this statistical advice is invented as an instrument for the control of the production of official statistics. Speaking of statistics on domestic grounds, did anyone remember to statisticalally address the condemning sentences of Serbs in The Hague, who have been incarcerated for over a thousand years in prison, and to compare them with the condemning sentences of prisons for other peoples who have committed crimes against the Serb people? The Hague is a special story, where the most cruel violation of human rights is at work, and it's the Serbs. At present, in The Hague, the book is being tried, as in the time of the Inquisition, as in Hitler's day. Because of the truth presented in the book entitled "Afera Hrtkovci and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandić" – the trial of Dr Vojislav Seselj was stopped. It will not be forever, for justice is slow, but attainable. As for the second law, the 2011 Bill on the Census of Population and dwellings, we are only left to see what Serbia will be like in two years, given what initiatives are being launched by those who run this country. We've seen through statistics that the state is no longer processing data from KIM, which is absolutely unacceptable and unconstitutional. The upcoming list, in 2011, is likely to face the truth – where Serbia is today and in which direction it is heading. This is likely to look like this - a reduction in the number of inhabitants, a reduction in the number of villages, more and more villages in which there is no single population and which are left unfettered, an increase in the number of suspended schools in Serbia, a direct confirmation that Serbia's government of 'white plague', a reduced livestock fund, due to irresponsible government policy and uncontrolled imports of agricultural products, an increase in the area of unprocessed agricultural land, an increase in the number of young people leaving Serbia, an increase in age households; in certain passive regions in Serbia, even more population density will be reduced due to population migration in search of work, to ensure that such existence. All this is due to poor governance of Serbia and responsibility to those who led this country over the past period. No one can add more alive how much money has entered Serbia – through various forms of donations, aid after 2000. When we add huge borrowings in the last seven or eight years, for about ten billion euros, I'm not talking about the previous debt, then privatisation and the funds that were received from it, the logical question is, where is that kind of money? It's just amazing that there was so much money in Serbia, that it was so spent, so much invested, and the people never lived up there. Uncertainty rules everywhere, every citizen fears whether he will have a job tomorrow or not. Indeed, this upcoming list will be one descriptive assessment, but it will certainly be insufficient because of all that has happened since the burning of the Assembly in 2000. We must look at this bill a little differently now, given that the Assembly has seen, as we have seen in recent weeks, passed laws, according to the EU dictatorship, often with a bad translation, but that is essentially the case. Some different norms and principles now rule in Serbia, based on laws passed in the National Assembly. Let us only remember the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, which has raised great dust in Serbia and against whom all traditional religious communities have raised their voice. This law prohibits, among other things, discrimination against a person based on their sexual orientation. We in the SRS, as well as medicine, have a completely different view of such phenomena. Why do I cite this law and this example? Here's why. Knowing how certain groups have been acting most profiting from the adoption of this law and who have the need, I think, a painful need, to impose their sexual tendencies on the public through some parades, the interruption of film projections at festivals, etc., what happens if these people want to express their sexual orientation on the list? When they fail to do so, because I don't see that possibility in Article 4, then these poor dissatisfactions will say that the state is discriminating them, because they can't express their orientation, so they will address NGOs, Strasbourg, etc. Because he who likes to walk in women's clothes and make-up, and he is a man, he doesn't mind saying anything in the list. We're against it, and you'll have a problem with it. Articles 5 and 7 shall prescribe a way of collecting data from households, especially those dealing with agriculture, and shall include domestic animals, as well as pets. Let's just remember the Animal Wellbeing Act, which was adopted last week, how many pointless provisions, and I'd say, and funny ones, that law came through. It is precisely because of this law that it will now not be so easy to cross the census and domestic animals within the framework of agriculture or land. I wouldn't be surprised if some animal protection organisation from Serbia or Europe, based on laws passed in the National Assembly, requested and recorded abused animals on the list. That's a little funny, but you've given this opportunity by adopting this law that I've been talking about for a while. Now let the citizens hear what is, say, forbidden by this animal welfare law and what can be treated as abuse, because maybe the censusor will ask you that too. It is forbidden, for example, to prevent a rooster from cutting its wings, it is forbidden to cut its beaks. Because of this definition, now the owners of livestock farms and stretching coke have major problems. It's forbidden to shorten, cut horns with animals. It's also forbidden to sexually abuse animals, but what if it's someone's sexual orientation and a man wants to register himself on the list? It's breaking the law again. For the SRS, as well as for a huge number of citizens, it's insane, but you've allowed such a possibility by law. Serbia's upcoming census should once and for all draw out the main asset it uses in its own representation of the world and the EU, that it is a multicultural and multiethnic state, as 270,000 Serbs reportedly returned to Croatia to live, and that is a lie and Serbia must prove that lie. What's this about? Take, for example, the last local elections in Croatia, held on 17 May this year. These are the results. In total, in 2009, only 27,000 Serbs voted in these elections, simply amazing. Comparing the 2003 data, 45,000 Serbs voted in 2005 – 37,000 Serbs, 2007 – 34,000 Serbs, 2009 – 27,000 Serbs. For the sake of illustration, 674 Serbs voted in Požega County in 2005 – none alone. Then we should pretend that Serbs are returning to Croatia, that Sanader is waving that data in front of EU leaders. This is a story and information for the government of the Republic of Serbia, for executive power, to prove what the structure and nature of the government in Croatia is, that there are no 270,000 Serbs there at all, because if there were, they would vote in these local elections. The situation is even worse if we know that, according to media information, 5,000 Serbs travelled organised to vote in Krajina. The question is, where are these people? They're actually in Serbia. That should also record this upcoming census in 2011. The number that Croatia is waving in front of various European and world emissaries was artificially, i.e. from the demands of Serbs to issue some documents, so they can raise pensions and so on. Lately, we can often hear statements by individual representatives of the MUP about the number of Albanians from the KIM who took the Serbian passport. In a number of cases, the passport is the need to deal with the actions that are often on the other side of the law abroad, so it turns out, when they are caught by German, French or other police, European police, the media are publishing it there with certain bomb titles – a Serbian citizen, or Serbian citizens caught in human trafficking, drug trafficking, arms, etc., which only causes damage to the Republic of Serbia. These Albanians from KIM, if they want a Serbian passport, should also be written in 2011 as citizens of Serbia, let them pay taxes to the state of Serbia. This way, Serbia has nothing but damage and no benefit. Another problem, which will certainly occur in the inventory of assets, is the status of property that was returned to religious communities by the Law of Restitution in 2006, which has not yet been implemented in action, somewhere because of impunity, somewhere because of the suspension of the state administration, but now is the opportunity to clear this up. I will specifically give you examples from Braničevska eparchy, where Serbian Orthodox Church is restored to monastery forests and agricultural land. Unfortunately, the Ravanica monastery was not returned to 1,246 hectares of forest owned by 1945. What's this about? It's a surface known as the Beans meadow, where there's a military polygon. Notably, the Manasi monastery, close by, has been returned to the monastery forest. However, since NATO has had its eye on the polygon, it is stalled by the competent authorities to restore to the Ravenica monastery what belonged to it by 1945. The bishop of Ignatia has repeatedly warned the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent authorities of the failure, but everyone is quiet. Recently, this problem came up again, when Minister Dulic, seeking to convince me personally, at the Committee on Environmental Protection, said that the facility that should be built near Ćupre would not be built near Ćupre, but on the very plains of Pasular. He probably didn't even know that the Beans meadows used to belong to the Ravanica monastery. It's just amazing that someone could have thought that European scum, European waste, would have drove to the Besular meadows, to the property where Prince Lazarus and Princess Milic once walked. I have already spoken of the Statute of the Vojvodina and of what may come if it is adopted in the National Assembly. We have an obvious example of the census in Vojvodina. According to national structure, the Serbs have more than 70%, and according to the list – 65%. The census aims to reduce Serbs, as a preparation for the adoption of the Statute. Therefore, I ask you to pay good attention to all that will follow when the time comes for this list to be executed in two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19452	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before concluding a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who did not exercise his right under Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Does anyone want a word? (No) I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law on official statistics and the draft legislation on censuses, households and dwellings in 2011. We move to the 60th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the ban on the manifestation of neo-Nazi or Fascist organizations and associations and bans on the use of neo-Nazi or Fascist symbols and markings (principles) You have received a bill submitted by the MPs: Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Radovan Radovan Radovanović, Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuga. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 parliamentary group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica Group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS Group - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak for up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that for this part of the agenda of the parliamentary group, MPs: Miroslav Markicevic – Parliament Group Nova Serbia, Milisav Petronijevic – SPS-JS Parliamentary Group Zeljko Tomic – DSS Parliamentary Group Radovan Radovanović – ZES Group. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft law prohibiting manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organizations and associations and banning the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and markings. Another announcement on the mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group, to be represented by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does the National MP, Olena Papuga, want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19453	The President-in-Office, fellow MPs, draft law prohibiting manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and banning the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and markings will prohibit the emphasis of symbols and any action of neo-Nazi and fascist organisations or associations, as well as the propagation of their ideas. If the registered association or organisation demonstrates claims on such ideas, their removal from the register will be proposed. Prosecution of propaganda material that promotes racial, national or religious hatred, as well as impatience to the freedom of definition of citizens, is also foreseen. The adoption of such a law would by no means mean that Serbia acknowledges that it has a problem with fascism or Nazism, but would only settle into a series of modern democratic societies where such rules are fundamental principles. The bill is the course of modern democratic societies, because democracy is not anarchy, and freedom does not mean destruction. Such laws are the fundamental principles of today's Europe, which rests on antifascism as one of the key values. Under the influence of the bill, when it gets the green light of MPs, not only should fascist and nationalist organisations come, but all those who propagate and justify such ideas. Many organizations that were on the list of MUP in 2005, at the request of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, including "Blood and Honor", "National Machine", "Move 46 County" and "The Face", are logical successors of movement and ideology that occurred during the 1990s, and therefore requires facing what happened in the previous decade and those ideas on the basis of which it was legitimate to kill and banish citizens. The society, by its inaction or by making wrong moves, by introducing historical textbooks of some individuals who are controversial, by denying anti-fascist values that no one challenges to us, led to the appearance and organisation of groups that glorify and heritage those that are unacceptable to most of our country's citizens. This bill should be supported by all parliamentary groups, to show, most of all, that fascism and neonasism have no place in our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19454	Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? (Yes) There are two applications in the electronic system for the time being, MP Tomislav Nikolic, MP of the Prosperity Group, and MPs Milisav Petronijevic, Aleksandar Martinovic and Zeljko Tomic. Please just press the switch in front of you once, because it's a way for the electronic system to mark your desire for a word and to remain registered. I'm looking at the screen, and I'm sorry there's no one to look at next to me, but that's what it says on the screen. Please just sign in, you'll get your word. If you press the key another time, in order for you to get the word, then you're off the list on your own. If you press the key when I call your name, you're off the list again. So I don't know how to say it, but the key in front of you presses once. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19455	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it is a very interesting situation in which the ruling majority decided to put one senseless law in the procedure, which defines Serbia as not a fascist and Nazi state, that it will punish any emerging form of such a symbol, as if it had ever been a problem in Serbia, as if Serbia had ever had an individual who could, according to the existing positive legislation, condemn any procedure that the judge could find to be Nazi or fascist, as if Serbia was a country in which it was created, developed, as if we were Serbs, and other citizens of Serbia, a people who would be persecuting someone by racial, religious and all other grounds, as if we had begun world wars, in order to prove our comprehension, power, their religion, their own country, their own race. We have come to the conclusion that this assembly can no longer adopt any agenda unless it fulfils the blackmails of certain small groups, which aim to bring into the agenda the points that could burden Serbia, to cover the sauce on the other side, to mark Serbia as a country that has not yet cleared up with some of its problems and has not yet drawn close to democratic states, such as Germany, where, for example, there are dozens of Nazi movements, in which there are two parliamentary parties that support them, Germany in which these movements have fully legal jobs, employ all its members, have full freedom to manifest what they do, and we say that this is a form of democracy that we want to introduce in Serbia. So, if you were doing a little more calamarily, you'd know that the apple on the pear can't be pecked. On Serbia, on Serbian citizens, on Serbs, in particular, you cannot tarnish fascism and Nazism, at least as much as you wish. It's a different story if you call opposing your group fascism. But I remind you, then, that you too are opposed to other groups. I see, the first signator is Mr. Canak, the one who cursed the mother to a Serbian one plate that marked one television in Serbia, trampled his legs and cursed his mother's Serbian. What is he? Will he be forced by some law ever in his life, or he invents laws that Serbia will come to the agenda at the Council of Europe and other institutions in which one single, individual case is eager to make a rule out of it in Serbia. This law entered the agenda without the government's opinion. Excuse me, gentlemen who run the National Assembly, when we proposed important laws to you, some still stand in the process, the president's reply was – no government opinion. For example, the law on the transfer of jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina, which was submitted by a group of MPs, cannot enter the procedure because it has no government opinion. The law prohibiting manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and bans and the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and markings enters the agenda, because you will refuse to vote for the agenda in general, because you will not come to the session when the day of the vote is due, because you are running this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There's five of you in here, let me add four-five, and that's all. It's power over Serbia. It's a march over Serbia. What's next? What will you suggest for the next agenda, and those in the ruling majority will have to adopt it? I'm surprised there wasn't a cross painted somewhere tonight that wasn't photographed by all the cameras of the world's television, and one of you said where it was going to be, what time they came to film it. I'd prefer the country I live in. I'd appreciate it a little more, especially when I'm a MP. In that country, no matter how hard you've worked today, explaining the bill, you haven't found a single case. Anyway, let's make sure that doesn't happen in advance. What are they going to do now, arrest people who wear Mladic's shirts and sell some of his badges? To what category of Democrats should I classify you who say it's forbidden to bear markings with the character of the accused? What are you? What, and what universal, worldly right do you exercise when for you the accused man is a man of discrimination? What happens if I press charges against you? It may not be possible for your name to be mentioned in the Assembly, because, for God's sake, an investigation has been launched against you. You may be convicted, or you already know that every Serb in The Hague will be convicted, so let's ban ahead, so that someone doesn't happen to mention their name or use their character somewhere. This is ridiculous law. Maybe you'll point him against some organizations you're in latent or constant conflict with. You've made each other a conflict, but look, these are conflicts of ideology. It's not a conflict of democracy with fascism. It's a conflict between two opposing ideologies, which could be very much, if one is banned, to be the other. Since October 5th, were democracy or fascism at work? Where are the socialists? 60,000 people were evicted from work. Where were their rights back then? What are they? Extreme right. Who declared them fascists, so they were forbidden all rights in Serbia? Who then determined what democracy was? Crisis headquarters. Have you been to some crisis headquarters, ma'am, have you learned that there? No one dared stand up to you. No one was allowed to raise their voice. Regular professors today are no longer regular professors. You didn't even admit to calling a regular professor if you weren't involved. Now you're moving on. Now there's something that doesn't give you a chance to punish. Come on, first, let's kill these in The Hague, then those who glorify them, so we can get to the last soldier who's ever defended Serbia, because he's a fascist, he's a Nazi. He defended his house, defended KIM, defended him in Knin, defended him where he arrived, where his house was. It's like his fault his house isn't in New Sad. What was the first genocide in Europe? Shooting in my Kragujevac. What was the other one? You're a jackal. You're forgetting. What neo-Nazis? You still have the living Nazis who killed us and did everything to us. Is fascism reducing the number of victims in Jasenovac? Is fascism an increase in the number of victims in Srebrenica? Only as it suits you, you, the ruling majority. I thought someone was going to get up and say that – it can't get into the agenda. We're not a secretive. Those who have done so from ancient Rome to this day should pass such laws. Let them persecute those who do so. I myself will list emails, phone numbers and addresses of such organizations in that developed, democratic Europe you call upon. Even when they demonstrate, they mark the streets they can cross, surround them with the police, and they demonstrate, carry their symbols. Will you find any fool in Serbia wearing a cowardly cross? You won't. What are you forbidding? You forbid us to drink blood, because maybe we'll be vampires someday. There are things that are not forbidden at all. It's forbidden to challenge racial, religious and other forms of impatience, it's forbidden to abolish human rights, so there's nothing you can do about it. Where do you find us in fascism and Nazism? I am really ashamed to sit with some people in this congregation. Don't you even appreciate your country and people? By whose directive was this made? You of the ruling majority, beautiful, shakes the state, the state falls apart, and today we will discuss the law on Nazis and fascists in Serbia. Why don't we talk about the poor thing? Why don't we talk about the unemployed? Why don't we talk about factory robberies, talk about Nazis and fascists? We 250 to gather, because the five of you, who have no other business, you're in the docks, you're proposing laws that we need to discuss. I wouldn't even go into the O.R., but somebody's got to raise their voice against this. Where do you paint us as people persecuting other people? What is the name of this Serbian citizen who was persecuting another because of his other race, faith, political commitment? A month ago, a ban on gender discrimination, today a ban on Nazism. When they add up all over Europe that we've passed the laws, they'll grab their heads. Don't let us eat live human flesh, because it has to be shaved, roasted, so there won't be any infection. You've really gone too far, people! "The village burns and the grandmother combs," as if you're all watching that show. If there's nothing to do, let's go home. Let's split up and go home and wait when someone smart invites us to do something smart, not like this. I don't think the citizens of Serbia can forget this for you. I don't think they can forgive you for this. Now you're raising your morale to your electoral body. You who fight for 5%, here you will make laws that put your 5% on your side, and then gay populations, and drug dealers, now Nazis and fascists, for God's sake, you're all at risk. Who are you threatened by? Think about how you behave, how you attack people, what you accuse them all of, why they attack you back! Why doesn't anyone attack me on the street? There are people who hate me, there are people who don't like me politically, but nobody attacked me on the street. But I'm not challenging. They attack me in the congregation, I have to defend myself when they don't know what the congregation's for. We will, absolutely, be against this law. It would have been ideal if it hadn't been on the agenda at all, but now that you've put it on, now you're taking chestnuts out of the fire, let your president talk – how come in Serbia there has to be a ban on Nazism and fascism, because so far he's been doing it unpunishedly in Serbia. Now we're going to ban him by law and now the fascists and the neo-Nazis are going to calm down and there won't be any of their markings. Of course, you've described what the markings are, so that it can be interpreted as widely as possible. Maybe these reds can't wear red anymore. If they put in a carnation, it's a mark that's very close to fascism. Humanism and fascism are being persecuted over what ideology is more totalitarian, except that the communist was not in ancient Rome to wear stripes. This is what we consider a humiliation of Serbia, we are against it. We will come to the voting day, if you have a quorum, to vote against and to convince you never to propose such a law to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19456	Before I give the word to the next declared word, I would like to inform you that, for the authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group, it is for point 60 of the National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, and the word now has a National MP, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19457	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, I will briefly state our position on the proposed law. Before that, let me say that we respect the right of every MP, a group of MPs, all who are authorized to propose the law as they consider necessary. Personally, I don't think this law is a priority for Serbia right now. When looking at the title – the law banning manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and banning the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols or markings, if its aim is to ban such actions, if any, does there really have someone who is against it? It is logical to expect from the SPS, which belongs to the anti-fascist movement, which is the heritage of the NOR tradition, the anti-fascist struggle, which has always given away, and day-to-day chambers, recognition and respect to all those who fought against Fascism, regardless of what hat they wore, that it is against any action, manifestations, propagation of fascist and neo-Nazi organizations, and there is no dilemma there. We are opposed to any actions of fascist and neo-Nazi organisations, but we want to make it clear, however much Serbia wants to express its political position on this, we should not and should not send a message against it that there is fascism in Serbia. There is no fascism in Serbia. Any case, in this sense, that happens, as the law requires, is incriminate. It is not disputed to ban the manifestations of neo-Nazi and fascist organisations, but it is very important, very important to determine precisely, so that Serbia does not fall into error – what it is, who it is and who it is, precisely to rule in Serbia and to remove any doubt from Serbia in this regard. If this law contained only Article 1, it would be enough as a political message and I think we would support it, but such a law as this in general, I must say on behalf of the Parliament Group, is not responding to the title and it is not possible to accept it as a whole. We do not want to be vain, but we have offered a whole series of amendments that can make it appropriate for the title of this law, that Serbia, which has always been known and recognised as an anti-fascist country, clearly demonstrates its position on it. So I am against the manifestations of neo-Nazi and fascist organizations, but when it goes through this law, we are already in Article 2. It is said – if a registered association or organisation shows a tendency to a neo-Nazi or fascist organisation or association during its operation, they are deleted from the register by force of the law. We almost had a draft law on political parties on the agenda, where the removal from the register can only be carried out by the Constitutional Court. It is thus stated for these reasons, as mentioned in this law, you remember, and we see no reason not to be in this case. However, the Law on Political Parties provides for one possibility of eradicating by law, but of administrative character – it did not apply for registration of the association. Why does this matter? It is important that someone who is impartial determines whether it is such an operation, whether it is in such a way that a decision can be made. It's already the first problem to arise in this law. Secondly, why is it closer to the conditions for the Home Secretary to prescribe? Let them be prescribed by the body running the register of associations, organisations, etc. Article 3, which is back on the wave of the title of this bill, introduces another word that I don't think belongs to her here. He says, among other things, that propagate or justify nationalist and fascist ideas. Please, let's get this straight again, why nationalist? Nationalism is to highlight the value of its people, and that has nothing to do with fascism. Shovinism is something else, it needs to be banned, it needs to be prevented, not nationalism and nationalist parties. Once again, nationalism is a positive side, pointing out the positive sides of its people, not to the harm of any other. What's so ugly about that? If it's to the harm of someone else, then it's chauvinism and that's another question, there might be room for him here. Article 4 is fully deducted from the title of the law prohibiting fascist and neo-Nazi organisations. So, they need to be banned, they need to be prevented from manifests, etc., but something new is already being introduced here, completely unacceptable. The production, multiplication, storage, presentation, expansion or in any other way use of symbols to promote or justify ideas, actions and proceedings of persons indicted or convicted before the International Criminal Tribunal, or persons convicted or convicted before domestic courts of war crimes. It's already a member who has no place in this law, for several reasons. Is it possible that there are any sanctions against someone who is accused, because no one is guilty until the court finds him guilty? What's that doing here? Not to talk about the convicts, whether he's convicted in front of a court that's impartial. So, when he was convicted, was he convicted before a court that was impartial? Who can say that the Criminal Tribunal in The Hague is impartial, if, for example, frees one Ramush Haradinaj? So, convicted, but who in front of whom? Here, perhaps, general formulations could come, if all this was forbidden, for those who were convicted of war crimes. So, convicted, but it's totally unacceptable that this applies to the defendants. Article 5 speaks of manifestations, what it is, what it means, well, among other things, it says: organization or spontaneous public appearance in which it is caused, encourages or spreads hatred or impatience towards members of any nation or national minority or persons of different political and personal determination. What does this mean – a different political commitment? I think it's completely coming out of the essence, if it's the essence of the law banning fascist and neo-Nazi organizations. Therefore, even one of the legislators of this law has not been convicted, and could be brought under this, when he says in the Republic Square that he should hang the then, let's say, head of state. This is already something that comes out of the scope of the desired, I suppose, even those who have suggested it here. Simply put, he's out of room. I'm going back to this question when it comes to Article 6, which in the last position speaks of neonationalistic ideas. A moment ago we had nationalists, I felt it necessary to say that we cannot put people who are nationalists into this law, and this is now a completely new term – neonationalist. What's that? Why did I bring all this up? Because I'm a proposer, the way he did this law and what he suggested, is questioning the essence of the idea of banning manifestations from fascist and neo-Nazi organizations. We're very clear, yes, banning manifestations, the functioning of fascist and neo-Nazi organizations, but all this other stuff that's listed here has nothing to do with it and even questioning the essence of the whole idea, the essence of this whole business; national socialist, it existed then, and it doesn't exist anymore. Why did I tell you all this? It is good that Serbia and the law prevent, ban the functioning of neo-Nazi and fascist organisations. So to prevent anything that causes hate, etc., but by law, do not cause hatred in Serbia itself, with the bill itself, impatience and all this. For these reasons, we cannot support a bill like this. Once again, I say, we are to ban fascist and neo-Nazi manifestations, but for this down there, the suffering of everything in it, we are not. There are opportunities, to debate in particular, to clarify all these issues on the board itself, all that is over-cleaned, to bring everyone together about this idea and that the law reflects the essence of what was wanted, which is a ban on the functioning of manifestations, propagating fascist and neo-Nazi organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19458	The floor has a representative of the Proposer, National MP Olena Papuga. I'm just asking you to register with the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19459	To avoid the debate going through, I just want to point out that the bill given by the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina has the term 'neonacism', not 'non-nationalism', so it's obvious that a printing mistake has been stolen. We can continue to debate whether fascist organisations exist in Serbia, which suggests that in 2005, at the request of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, the Serbian MUP provided information, a letter signed by then Interior Minister Dragan Jocic, informing the MPs of the Regional Assembly that there are fascist and neo-Nazi organisations in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, organised or unorganised.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19460	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. I'm just asking you to register. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19461	Dear Vice-Presidents, the respected proponents of this call to the esteemed citizens of Serbia, the first thing I can think of to say is a small replica of a colleague. In the proposal of such a dangerous law, I still believe that DS will not vote for it, do you know what you just said – a press error. Because of that printing mistake, someone can go to jail for 20 years. You should've thought about it a little bit better when you wrote a bill like this, but let's get to the debate. I must say immediately that New Serbia's Parliament Club, New Serbia's MPs, or New Serbia, will not vote in favour of this law. We didn't even want to submit amendments and participate in the adoption, I hope it won't be passed, such a shameful law, which is the most dangerous law of the new Serbian parliamentaryism. Now I'm going to try to elaborate, or explain why this law is so dangerous. This law turns a critical and opposition thought into a hate speech and a verbal delinquent, a law on discrimination into a new discrimination against the traditional system of values. Each patriotic organization is declared hooligan, neo-Nazi and fascist, and now legally treats itself as undesirable and deletes itself from the state registry. During that time, the Serbian people suffered a humanitarian disaster and police torture from our "European allies" in KIM, and NATO fascism is reaching an end to the world-wide situation. Where were the lawmakers to say one word of protest for murdered children in Afghanistan? All the world agencies reported that hundreds of women and children were killed in one day. Is that fascism? Where are the housewives to announce these kinds of modern fascism and how long will we suffer to bring Serbian patriotism into such a negative context and, practically, forbidd in our country, Serbia? Who thought democracy ruled in Serbia and that they were in power of the Democrats seems to have fooled himself a lot and proved to be extremely naive. Following the political manipulation of the election results, the universal media censorship, the gradual abolition of Parliament, follows a final blow to the complete opposition scene in Serbia, in the light of the bill on banning manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and banning the use of neo-Nazi and fascist symbols and markings. When you look at the name of the law, there's nothing to object to. No matter how sensitive any and any banning and disabling freedom of speech and gathering, as far as neonasism and fascism are concerned, things are more than clear. These two totalitarian ideologies have caused mankind so much suffering that any preventive caution from their uproaring is more than necessary. The problem lies in something else – that these two historical evils today have become a handsome excuse for ruling centres to label their political unsuspecting people with names and thus elegantly eliminate them from public discussion and social influence. So the fight against totalitarian ideology turned into new totalitarianism. It is obviously the real motive of the proponents of this anti-democracy law that, under the guise of the legal regulation of controversial neo-Nazi and fascist elements in modern Serbian society, which, by the way, are far below the average of such phenomena in the West, also goes through the intimidation and banning of national organisation and action in general. How could an international criminal tribunal in The Hague and any organised or spontaneous public appearance that causes, encourage or spread hatred or intolerance to members of any nation or national minority, or to persons of a different political and personal commitment, be found in one law dealing with criminal prosecution of neo-nacism and neo-fascism? What this may have to do with World War II and civil war in the former Yugoslavia, in the last decade of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st century, as it has been associated with the threat, i.e. protection against neonasism and threat or protection of political and personal identity? Who is in the interest of who, and why should this relationship be established in the same legal proposal? In light of the reasons for the adoption of this law, among other things, it states: "Recently, nationalist and non-fascist organisations and individuals perform group and individual excessions, maintain their gatherings and manifestations and seriously endanger the security of order, public order and peace and the sense of legal certainty of citizens. There is a synchronisation with similar organisations from abroad. It is therefore necessary to adopt this law by an urgent procedure and thus effectively prevent the threat of legal order and the security of citizens in the Republic of Serbia." Nor, in general and hazy terms, are the excesses really so present in Serbia, nor is this law one that needs to be passed by emergency procedure. There are a lot of other laws to be passed before this, but someone's obviously in a hurry. Let's see why. Although we have spoken on many occasions, we from New Serbia, that bringing the Serbian people into any context of the followers of fascism and Nazism is a deeply offensive thing for our people, we will repeat again why the concepts of Nazism and Serbia are absolutely excluded. Let's look at things on the purely healthy side. Could a member of the Serb people, who suffered severely from the Nazis and its satellites in World War II, be pro-nastastically identified? Could a member of one of the Slovenian people be a follower of ideology who, among other things, wanted to destroy the Slovenes? Is it natural that this idea is followed by the grandkids of the first rebels against the German occupation in enslaved Europe in 1941? Should I remind myself that the leader of these rebels was General Draža Mihajlovic? Serbian neonasism is no product of our own, but a subcultural sect that came to us from the West. In our history and tradition, we do not have this kind of learning and practice, so that newly-roasted followers of Hitler in Serbia have absolutely nothing to do with Serbia, and it takes extreme malice to attribute them to Serbian character. In doing so, many of them have not been proven to exist at all, the Internet presentations have been registered to them in foreign countries, and the legislators of this law have many reasons to invent and personally finance them and promote them, which has already happened. In this key, it is only understandable why such topics are being addressed, and now, possibly, also legal regulation. It should not be omitted from sight and the fact that the Serbian people have been on a pillar of shame and media for 15 years, and political, and legal Satanisation, that both outside and inside can be said of the greatest insult and lie, that there is no end to pressure, blackmail and double standards, and that somewhere there must be an upheaval against such humiliations. This does not mean that this rebellion should have anything to do with neonasism and neofascism. Whoever makes this connection works directly at the expense of Serbian national interests and its motives are highly suspicious. In the further explanation of the legislator, we also find the extension of the indictment: "In view of the complex political opportunities that the Republic of Serbia is going through today, there are frequent individual forms of fallout and violations of the legal order, which threaten constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens in the Republic of Serbia, particularly on a national and religious basis. It is therefore necessary, in addition to criminal protection against actions that cause national, racial and religious hatred and impatience, to provide such legal protection to prevent any violation of constitutional rights and freedom of all citizens." So, the promoter is not satisfied with the problem of neonasism itself, but wants to provide such legal protection to prevent any violation of constitutional rights and the freedom of all citizens in the Republic of Serbia. That's how they say it, and we know exactly what they're going to do. The question arises, why do such a noble intention come about through this law, rather than some other and numerous legal mechanisms, of which some already exist in the legal order of the Serbian state? There's an answer in this matter. Therefore, it is a legal manipulation and replacement of thesis, in which legal protection against neonasism serves only as an excuse for opening a wide front of other bans. This bill only makes sense in the first article, and that member could be the whole law, if that's all you wanted. "This law prohibits manifestations, emphasising symbols or signs or any other act of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations, which in any way can violate constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens and prescribe sanctions for the violation of this law." If there was a decent political and human intention here, it would be enough to say this and New Serbia would consider voting for such a law. Only this member of the proposed law has something to do with the name of the law, and everything else is a highly politically motivated reckoning with non-insects and a blow to democratic freedoms and citizens' rights. Already, Article 2 points to the real objective of this law, which is to delete from the register of all active opposition patriotic organisations, whether parties, or associations of citizens, under the form of a ban on the work of organisations with neo-fascist or neo-Nazi elements, which can easily be attributed to anyone by this media and political authority of the current regime, which will be decided by a highly qualified ideological court, known in all totalitarian times: "Nearer conditions for eradicating from the register set out in Article 2." We just heard the SPS's attitude. We all know how ideologically different New Serbia is from the SPS, but I, perhaps the only one here, applauded Mr Petronivic, with whom I am totally ideologically different, but he also performed here as a European, and as a Democrats, and as an honest man. I believe the police minister himself will refuse even to vote such a mockery of the law. As the greatest expert on knowledge of the history of fascism and Nazism and on identifying the elements of the history of all ideologies in the functioning of contemporary social movements in Serbia, the interior minister, whoever he is, will prescribe the conditions under which an organisation is declared undesirable and abolished. Is this familiar to you from some films, is Orwell on stage here in Serbia? This law imposes itself as open totalitarianism, and new police times are ahead of us. The 3rd article continues to transition this law from one purpose to another, from a justifiable fight against the neo-Nazi monster, of which, by the way, Serbs suffered a lot, but also contributed greatly to its breakdown, towards repression against the general expression of national feelings and opinions. In fact, this is the first time an open replacement of thesis has been performed and, instead of neo-Nazi, it uses the term 'nationalistic ideas'. It is therefore forbidden to say the legislator, "production, multiplication, storage, presentation, splendor or in any other way the spread of propaganda material, symbols and markings that can be caused, stimulated or spread hatred and intolerance towards the free definitions of citizens, racial, national or religious hatred or impatience, propagating and justify nationalist and fascist ideas and organisations, or otherwise endangering legal order". So, all the ex post corrections, the speech about printing mistakes, the stories are for little children. We got the law in the text and how we got it in the text, that's how we interpret it. How from neonasism came nationalism, patriotism and patriotism, in translation, and from neo-Nazi to nationalist ideas, and who's going to explain to us these termologically significant differences and nuances before he abuses them, is the real question for the promoter, who didn't create this mess by chance? If this were a complete mess, it is also evidence that the first signator of the bill is not in the Assembly today. If the law was so important to him, he should have found himself today and explained some of his lucid ideas. In the following, Article 4, we also see why: “Produced production, multiplication, storage, presentation, expansion or any other way of using symbols to promote or justify the ideas, actions and actions of persons indicted or convicted before the International Tribunal, or persons convicted or convicted before domestic courts for the crimes of war crimes.” This means that my friends, the SPO brothers, who were recently on the right mountain, according to the legislator of this law, should all be arrested, if not this year, then next year in Ravnogorski, because they were wearing paintings, or T-shirts and hats with the image of Draža Mihajlovic, and he is, as you know, the gentlemen of this so-called. The law, convicted in front of some court as a war criminal. This member is scandalous on a number of grounds. First of all, how did the International Criminal Tribunal get here? What does he have to do with neo-Nazi organizations and symbols to be banned from this law? What to say about the miraculous legal invention that wants to prevent the use of symbols that are being promoted or justified by ideas, actions and actions, not only convicted persons, but also those indicted before the International Criminal Tribunal or domestic courts, which is why those who are innocent to the moment are being convicted of war crimes! The scales of applying this legal member to political inexperiences are endless. Rasim Ljajic may also be arrested, and the president of the state, which, as I recall, protested several days ago against the level of sentence in The Hague tribunal. The top of the anti-democratic character of this law is reflected in article 5, which gives such a breadth to the regime that every opposition rally in Serbia declares a neonastic event and automatically prohibits it. This legal solution is more brilliant and successful even than the Mexican flu, which was a great global occasion for all public gatherings in the world, in times of huge economic and social crisis, for medical reasons to be banned. "The event, gathering or in any other way by the operation of members or supporters of neo-Nazi and fascist organisations and associations shall be regarded as any organised or spontaneous public appearance in which it is caused, encourages or spreads hatred or impatience towards members of any nation or national minority or persons of different political and personal determination." The whole law, now quite clear, has been written because of the 4th and 5th members, who have come to account with each different opinion on the contemporary history of the Serbs, the work of the UN tribunal or any other opposition political issue. If other types of pressure and ban do not bear fruit, there is a tried-out model of financial pressures and penalties, which is referred to in Article 8, which says, "If the ban on Article 2 of this Act executes a natural person, as a member of a registered organisation or association, a fine of 100,000 to millions of dinars will be fined for the violation of that organisation, or association". As the additional reasons for the proposed legislative solutions put it: "According to the standards of democratic states in Europe, the personal security of citizens is also being achieved through repressive measures. The experience of individual countries of Europe has also been taken into account, and regulations sanction any action and behaviour that can affect the creation of a sense of personal and legal uncertainty of citizens, given their racial, national and other commitment." In this respect, the basic distinction of the infringements prescribed by this law, i.e. the criminal offence referred to in Article 317. The CAP. The key question is: who will be the one who separates the phenomena of neonasism from, say, elementary patriotism, or classical opposition attitudes? The law gives such an opportunity to interpret that, under the threat of the free determination of citizens, any free thought is possible. The motives for passing such a law are enough to suggest that the LSDV, with NATO support, is a media show in Serbia, NGOs and those who have been trying for years to accuse only Serbian people of all crimes committed in the Balkans in the past 100 years and thereby make their sense of existence and justify investment in them. They finally got close to the legal cover for everything they were up to. Whether other members of the ruling coalition will choose to choke democracy and repression as a way of survival in power remains to be seen. Just putting such a law in the assembly procedure is a violation of democracy. The biggest problem is that this is not only about disabling political opponents, but about banning and persecuting the entire Corps of National Definition, Organization and Action. In the end, I want to say that, in the depth of my soul, I think that the basic driving motive of the legislator is to submit such a bill of law is to bite my conscience. Here's what I'm thinking, maybe, a little naive, and let the citizens of Serbia judge. A year or two ago, there were leaders, with some other MPs present here, on the so-called An antifascist event. These days, we're going to share with journalists and all the media photos of a huge black flag that says: NATO = a cowardly cross. Is it more guilty of jeopardizing the national symbols of Serbia? Do we remember how Nenad Canak dealt with a board with the name of Serbia, so RTS, whatever we think of the editorial policy of that TV? Therefore, I want to believe that DS, first of all, will recognize what the aim of this law is, that it will resist the blackmail of small parties in the ruling coalition, because if you vote this, gentlemen, who knows what awaits you in the naked and so difficult and perhaps unsustainable struggle for survival in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19462	National MP Srdjan Spasojevic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100. You're giving up? (Yes) Do you not want to speak or do not work the card? You're giving up. Since it's 13.55 hours now, I'm setting a break by 3:00. Before we take a break, I would like to inform you that, on the basis of Article 85 paragraph 5, we will be working today after 18 hours, by discussing a point that is on the agenda at that time, with a notice from RTS that the direct transmission of the session of the Assembly is today up to 20 hours. The afternoon part of the session at 15 hours will begin with the application for a word, i.e. the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, followed by MP Zeljko Tomic, then MP Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19463	Fellow Members of the People, we continue our work. The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19464	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, whenever a bill is discussed, two questions must be asked – who is proposing the law and for what reasons, or with what motives? As for the motives of the legislator, they are very clear. By order of Boris Tadic, under the orders of the US and British ambassadors, there must be no talk in Serbia about topics that are really of interest to the citizens of Serbia, which are of vital interest, which depends on the existence of individuals and their families. In Serbia, we should deal with artificial topics, topics that do not exist and topics that are interesting for people like Nenad Canak. Whenever the political situation is tightened in Serbia, when people's dissatisfaction with the Boris Tadic regime comes to a culmination, then a NATO spider appears to cheer up citizens of Serbia with completely non-existent topics. The first signator of this bill is a man who is constantly in the National Assembly, in public, in the media, appearing in a black shirt, a classic "antifascist" suit. Today, in Serbia, Mr Nenad Canak wants to prevent Serbian citizens from hearing what is happening at the top of the government in Serbia and who is behind the biggest financial malversions in the early 21st century. There's no need to talk about how Luke "Belgrade" was sold. The value of 220 ha of land, 2.5 billion euros, was sold to a phantom company, imagine Milan Bek, for 40m euros. These are those who fight crime and corruption, which are full of the mouth of democracy, the EU, human rights, European and world standards, etc. Another big affair that should not be discussed in Serbia, because it undermines the authority of Boris Tadic and his foreign mentors, is the "Usce" affair, the damage done to the state of Serbia is 40m euros. The business centre "Usce" sold to the company MPC, a certain Pera Matic, and one of the co-owners is a friend of Mr Nenada Chanka, Miodrag Kostic. It is the famous businessman who bought three-euro sugars in Vojvodina in time, a great friend not only Nenada Canka, but Izoran Djindjic. There is no need to talk about the machinations that occur in a very dark institution in the territory of Vojvodina, what is the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund. In 2006, educated by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, with the huge support of Bojan Pajtic and Nenada Canka, the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, dear Serbian citizens, especially those living in Vojvodina, serve only one thing – to blow in the sails of the DS ahead of the election. It's an institution that doesn't respect the Public Procurement Act, it's a fund that directly transfers funds to contractors, without a tender, without any competition, away from the eyes of the public. The fund, again with the blessing of Nenada Chanka, is the investor of such works on the road infrastructure network in Vojvodina to perform the works at night, at temperatures below zero, in mud, and then the roads last seven days, ten days, two months, six months, but long enough until the polling stations are closed and the citizens of Vojvodina realize they have been double-crossed. There's no need to talk about who the real financiers are and Nenad Chanka and DS are. However, the arrested mayor of Zrenjanin Goran Knezevic spoke publicly about this a few days ago. It's the only man in Vojvodina who's dealing with blurry business, everyone else is clean, innocent, honest, law-abiding. The country's Goran Knezevic gained the courage, though, only when he was arrested, in front of the district court's investigative judge in Belgrade, to say who the actual DS finance companies are and that they are the list of alleged finance and DS sponsors, which was published on their official site, which is allegedly 44 companies, pure nonsense and nonsense. The Black Treva firm, from Žitoraj, from Bela Palanka, gave 15,000 dinars, so Boris Tadic's campaign was financed? So, this Goran Knezevic, the only one, I say, a criminal in Vojvodina, strangely belonging to DS, was able to say that DS funding is exactly the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund and the Oil Industry of Serbia, because it has its headquarters in Novi Sad. The DS and LSV, which has been chaired all these years by the only man who has the right to a monopoly of anti-fascism in Serbia, Nenad Canak, opened all financial valves in Bojvodina, above all, by the Vojvodina and NIS Capital Investment Fund. So, dear citizens of Vojvodina, whom Bojan Pajtic and Nenad Canak promise a better life and fast entry into the EU, finance the DS and LSV campaign, leaving you and your family without a job first, makes it impossible for your children to school, because they don't have enough money to pay for astronomical scholarships, and then they come to you on election day with blue and yellow packages, which they filled with money from that same robbed people, and they are looking for a voice for you, or for themselves. They say it is a voice for you, in fact, it is a voice for DS and Nenada Canka; apparently, it will make it easier for you to join the EU. It is not to be said, dear Serbian citizens, about workers who are forced to cut down their own vital organs on their bodies so that someone will have mercy from ministers to look at their torment and ask how they can help them. Here, they removed those impromptu tents and camps outside the Serbian presidency building, where workers, robbed workers of Belgrade's Robing Houses, tried for weeks to draw Boris Tadic's attention to their troubles and troubles. There's no need to talk about it. Witches should be persecuted in Serbia. We should deal with neonasism, fascism, nationalism, but as these concepts are baptized by these experts from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, and that in the Serbian people we are looking for one phenomenon, one ideology, one look at a world that has never had a foundation in it. One writer said that Serbs after World War II, above all, who remained to live in the Socialist Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, are the rest of the slaughtered people. If a people in Europe, besides Jews, Russians and Poles, felt all the monstrosity of Nazi and fascist ideology and their totalitarian practice, they were Serbs. Then NATO spider Nenad Canak found himself saying that we are Serbs, in fact, not the biggest victims, but that we are the largest protagonists of fascism, if not in all of Europe, and then surely in this part of Europe. A man who publicly asked for Slobodan Milosevic, whose party today, seen historical irony, in a coalition with the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, to hang himself publicly on the terraces. You see what Cank's antifascism looks like in practice. He exhibits himself by washing and depriveing the lives of his political inexperience. That's the man who savagely trampled the board with an RTS sign. This is the man who today is the most protagonist of adopting the new statute of the AP Vojvodina, which is, in fact, the constitution of a future independent state. Otherwise, Mr Nenad Canak proved his antifascism two years ago, when in Zagreb, at the "Vatroslav Lisinski" theatre, he attended some kind of'marriage', quoting Croatian television journalist, "the anniversary of the banishment of Croats from Srema". Then, imagine, he was standing under one of the passwords that said, "Meet Croatia." Now, this is the man who tells us today in Serbia that we should fight Fascism, who will find witches and burn them on some of its ideological, nato and Euro-atlant fires. This is the man who, along with Bojan Pajtic, literally invented the current nakaradian coat of arms of the AP Vojvodina. Just to remind you, the SRS keeps saying that, these 19th-century autonomists who are now run by Nenad Canak have nothing to do with authentic Serbian autonomists. In the 19th century, the best Serbs and the largest Serbs were advocates of Serbian autonomy, but in a foreign, Catholic, black-yellow Hamburg monarchy. When the time came to create, however, not entirely Serbian, but in part the Serbian Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, Jasa Tomic, once the largest autonomist, said the idea of Vojvodina's autonomy in the new Serbian state should be rejected as Austria's old age. Then, after World War II, under Joseph Broz and the Communist Party, some new autonomouss, who would like to separate Vojvodina from Serbia, appeared. And today those who introduce themselves as autonomists are nothing but pure children of communism. These are the ideological heirs of Bosko Krunic, Zivana Berisavljevic, the people who basically robbed everything that could have been robbed in Vojvodina and who now say to themselves that some new politicians are, to advocate some new system of values, for some new Vojvodina. What kind of Vojvodina would you like to arrange for Nenad Canak? Basically, it is Vojvodina completely separate from Serbia. It was only the acquisition of political opportunities that forced him to give up public speaking about how he was to separate the duchy from Serbia. Basically, he still thinks so. If he didn't think so, the Social Democratic League activists wouldn't be sharing the New Sad and other cities in Vojvodina car stickers with a big letter "V". Car stickers, all over the world, have only completely sovereign states. Go to Novi Sad today, go to Saturday, Panchevo, Sremska Mitrovica, Sombor, and you will find numerous cars bearing the "V" mark, and that brilliant idea has come to you, imagine, no one else to the great anti-fascist Nenad Canak. This Nenad Canak, along with Bojan Pajtic, also came up with this fully-supervised coat of arms of Vojvodina. He's to the point where they say he represents two beers, a lion and a deer in Vojvodina. Never did the Serb people in Vojvodina, or in former southern Hungary, use that symbolism. Then he realized Nenad Canak was searching for authentic Serbian national symbols in Vojvodina, so he invented a coat of arms, probably dreaming of it after drinking two or more beers, and, imagine, a man came up with a brilliant idea that the coat of arms of Vojvodina should be "the lion" and "the deer". Here, today this man proposes this law, which we have heard from an authorised representative that they themselves do not know what phenomena and concepts this law refers to. A little bit of this bill deals with neofascism, a little neonasism, a little national socialism, a little nationalism, so one wonders what is the phenomenon these antifascists, alleged, in black shirts, want to stop in Serbia? If anyone has the moral right to speak about what fascism means in a political sense, then it's the SRS MPs. Just to remind you, in 1979, then Master Vojislav Seselj doctored at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade on the topic "Political essence of militarism and fascism". If someone has really entered this matter from a historical, legal, political, philosophical, sociological point of view, then it is just the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj. It's a man who had such a destiny to experience that not only should he be judged, his statements, his political actions, his ideology, but to judge, imagine, even his books. This is what those who say to themselves that the continuations of anti-fascist traditions, continuers and followers of those who fought against Hitler's SS and the SA squad in Europe, who burned books that did not fit their ideology. These days in The Hague, a new flamer, an ideological flamer, is ordered to burn one of the latest books by Dr Vojislav Seselj "Afera Hrtkovci and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandić". The book is a thorn in the eye of Hague investigators, Hague judges and prosecutors, and they are trying to prevent citizens of Serbia from reaching the right title of the book in any way. You, even, have brilliant Hague prosecutors and investigators who say that if you use the term "taste", it's an ugly name for Croats. Then, for this reason, they probably prevented the trial before The Hague tribunal, which has been headed against Vojislav Seselj since 2003, from mentioning the full title of the book, and the unfortunates do not know that they were called Pavelic and his brothers and even proud of what they were wearing, they considered a heroic name. So, in today's debate, the SRS will try to prove a few things. First, that fascism is gone in Serbia, not only is it not today, but it has never been there. Secondly, we will try to prove that the bill, from a formal and legal point of view, is meaningless, not built, unspoken, full of holes and gaps, and that, in fact, it was not clear to the legislators themselves what it was that this law, if adopted, it wanted to achieve. What's interesting is that it seems that the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina has turned out to be some free shooter in this coalition. Their coalition partners, when it's thick, are looking for Nenad Chanka. Then Nenad Canak is similar. Then his voices are good. Now that a pointless bill is being discussed, then, dear Serbian citizens, his coalition partners from the Democratic Party, from the Socialist Party of Serbia, are being fenced on by the same Nenad Canka. The question now arises – what kind of coalition led Serbia, reportedly, into the European Union, reportedly with rapid steps, when they disagree on whether support should be given and whether a bill proposed by their coalition partner is a good one? How can the citizens of Serbia trust one authority that says that it works in harmony, that they have agreed on everything, that there is a consensus of coalition partners, that they know exactly what they want, that the calendar of European integration is established, and here we are today coming to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to talk about Cank's bill, and the Democratic Party is silent, avoiding publicising what their position is; the Socialist Party of Serbia, as far as we have seen, and if I understand correctly, will not vote for this bill? So, quite a strange coalition. (President: Twenty minutes is the time at your disposal. ) To make things weirder, the bill did not have the courage to explain here his idea maker, antifascist in black shirt – Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19465	People's MP, time at your disposal has been used, 20 minutes, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19466	Can't I go on? (The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet, from the place: How can he not continue?) How could that happen today? )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19467	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. I ask the MPs to consult the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, describing the course of the session when a word is given to the authorised presidents or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups. Each authorised president or representative shall have 20 minutes at his disposal. There are two other authorised representatives: the people sent by Zeljko Tomic, the authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group, and MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, the authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group. Time at the disposal of the SRS parliamentary group will begin to run once all authorised representatives, or members of the parliamentary groups, have finished. In cases where an authorised representative of the SRS Parliamentary Group is last in line, he or she has also used the time available to the parliamentary group. So once again, please read carefully the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which describe the course of the session that is currently under way. There is a word from MP Zeljko Tomic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19468	I'm reporting on the basis of article 27. Mrs. Komic, please take care of who's applying for the word and don't pretend that you don't see that I've taken my word for it. You have been paying attention to the MPs for several days, in a rather inappropriate way, to read the Rules of Procedure, and you say ironically – read it, it is not difficult, but in fact you are applying this Rules of Procedure to me more... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19469	People's MPs, the right to receive words of violation of the Rules of Procedure is for an injury that was done just before you report for the word, not to talk about what happened several days during the session. You have no right to be false when you quote some of what I'm explaining. I'm saying it's not complicated, because it's not complicated. I ask you not to abuse the terms of the Rules of Procedure, for they serve all of us equally, to be used, and not to be misused. There's a word from MP Zeljko Tomic. Please, I'm just asking you to register with the system, Article 231.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19470	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the honourable MPs, what I want to say at first, is a lot of it has to be heard, and we're going to have to repeat something for the public, but something has to be pointed out. Today we are not talking about the spirit of the law, about the atmosphere in Serbia – that we should ban the profissistic, Nazi and not know what kind of organisations, but we are talking about the bill. So black on white, the letters that determine certain things. So I have at the very beginning to say one completely strange, not so important, but a very indicative thing, simply, illiterate form, where, let's say, this first part of the title would be amended, the law would, look at the good title of the law, call itself "the ban on use," not "the ban." Please, even grammatically you don't know how to spell the name of the law. Second, to make a little rough jokes. The law banning the manifestations of neo-Nazi and neo-fascist organizations and such markings – does this mean that Nazi and non-fascist organisations can exist, because they are not banned, not here, but simply write "non-Non-Nazi and fascist," and does this mean that neo-Nazis and fascists can freely express their commitment, their views in Serbia? It's just amazing. You don't even know how to make it, and we're going to talk about the content now – of course, I'm talking to the legislator. When you look at that spirit of the law, because I know what the proposer of this bill was going to say, of course no one civilized, to say, normally, in Serbia would mind. Of course there is no man in this republic who can justify the cowardly cross and all those crimes committed by the people who had that symbol above themselves, but it is a sensitive issue of banning anything in any state. However, totalitarian ideology such as fascism, or Nazism, has done so much evil in the world, especially with us, in our spaces, that any preventive caution is necessary. There are laws like this throughout Europe. We point out that the problem here is in something else. These two historical evils, fascism and Nazism, have today become a wonderful excuse for ruling centres to label their political unspeakables with their names and thus elegantly eliminate them from public, social influence. So the fight against totalitarian ideology turns into new totalitarianism. We don't fight totalitarianism and its heritage here, because if we were fighting it, we'd probably ban those who started gulags, naked islands, dog cemetery rules, rip a mustache, etc. No, we're fighting certain things here. I'll remind you, I said at the beginning, it now turns out that Nazis and neo-fascists can freely do whatever they want in Serbia. If we literally understand this law, it's not a joke. Why? In the Republic of Germany, it is forbidden to highlight all the symbols of World War II that were related to fascism and Nazism, but all the symbols that later appeared in various neo-fascist and neo-Nazi organizations can be freely used in various demonstrations, etc. That's what MP Tomislav Nikolic was talking about. That's what this is about. Because, of all the jokes, someone here could get hurt, as the verse puts it. Secondly, how could the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague be found in this law dealing with the prosecution of neo-Nazis? How come now that he's not in the title, not in the announcement, but he's getting through there in one member, and that's very interesting. I can repeat some of the former speakers' views that the move of the defendants and convicted in The Hague tribunal is opening Pandora's box. Who are the war criminals? There's no definition of nationalism, of neonationalism, of who could be prosecuted, of these laws, of convicts, of convicted war criminals. That's the question someone asked. Is it Draža Mihajlovic, for whom the ruling coalition now established a commission to find his grave, and can his character now be on shirts, because he, by former communist authority, remember the court of Milos Minic, is a war criminal? I remind you that he was the minister of military in the government in which the president was Slobodan Jovanovic, whom we rehabilitated not so long ago and who looks at us from the most valuable Serbian banknote, the first Serb to teach at Sorbonne. And he was a war criminal until recently. Why not now? Of course it's good to calm down the passions in Serbia, to forget the divisions, but you're running out with one of the nakaradan, I'm sorry, I also have to call it a stupid bill, which you're creating and giving birth to new divisions. That's your basic problem, because you've shared the necessary things, and the insults and the swearings and the breaking of those television tables, to show that you exist. You have nothing else in your political careers, you haven't built anything. You were in a position to build, Nenad Canak was the Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission when you said you were going to bring a new constitution, and you didn't bring it, we had to do it, in collaboration with even the opposition at the time, but now it's another story. What does World War II have to do with civil war in the former Yugoslavia in the late 20th century? What is involved in the threat, that is, protection against neonacism and endangerment, i.e. protecting a different political and personal definition? It was all arranged by various general acts, the Constitution of Serbia and certain laws, not to quote them now. What do you combine incompatible things? What does that have to do with the title of your law, the way it is? It should not be omitted that the Serb people for 15 years are on the pillar of shame and media, political and legal Satanization, that, in our country, unfortunately, and in the world, there may be the most offensive and false, there is no end to the pressures we experience, blackmail, double standards and that it simply must work in us a kind of resistance and rebellion against such humiliations that we have been, and today, unfortunately, we are exposed to. That doesn't mean that this rebellion, this public criticism, let's say, of NATO, is an ideal story for today, has to do with Nazism, neonasism, neonationalism, and what terms, funny and rogue, you used here. Who today makes the relationship, today, works to harm not only national interests, Serbian interests, but also the interest of the Serbian state. It is seen from this text that the promoter is not at all satisfied with solving the problem only of neonasm, Nazism, fascism, what you have already mentioned, but of spreading the story, spreading the story to the Hague indictees and convicts. I'll remind you that the president of the party that he's proposing, Mr. Nenad Canak, and how he encouraged and encouraged some of the Hague indictees. He came to the Square of Nikola Pasic to escort Sreten Lukic to The Hague, to encourage him and to encourage him. He found the strength to go to the opening of the golf course to Dragan Vasiljkovic, known as Captain Dragan. That wasn't the problem. At that time, The Hague indictees were sympathetic to someone. What is it today? What kind of law is this? What do you do when the Hague indictees settle in, I'm not talking about convicts, just indictees, in this part, along with Nazis, fascists, and being punished? If this law applies retroactively, would one who encouraged and encouraged the Hague indictees, such as Nenad Canak, answer by this law, or did you from LSV forget a little? Serbia isn't. We watched Dusan Mihajlovic, Vladan Batic and Nenada Canka at the meeting when Sreten Lukic, such a pompous man, went to The Hague. We haven't forgotten that. It is, in essence, about the great legal manipulation and the replacement of thesis, where legal protection against neonasm only serves as an excuse to open wide fronts of new bans. Finally, Nenad Canak came to the opportunity to ban something, not to give someone something, to punish, to be restrictive. He beat up enough of his own, not just what others said. I'm a personal witness when under the feet of angry leaguers in Novi Sad was a political opponent, an SPS representative, when I saved him from the rabid leaguemen, only because a political opponent, otherwise, made it impossible for an older man. Today you're in a coalition, gentlemen of the Socialists, with them, it's simply amazing, or, gentlemen of the League, you're in a coalition with the Socialists today. And that's terrible. Again, this bill makes sense only in that first member, almost all speakers pointed out. That member could be the whole law. Then that ghost of the law I've been talking about all along would be the fact and the law. But there's everything here. Article 3 is, in my opinion, the most interesting, because it says here – who expresses, spreads impatience, although the Constitution guarantees that no one should be offended on the basis of racial, national or religious feelings, who propagates or justifys nationalist or fascist ideas, will be punished accordingly. Gentlemen Socialists, I publicly urge you to inform your party president, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Mr Dacic, that MP Zeljko Tomic is responsible for saying that he has been a nationalist, has spread and promoted the national idea throughout his life and that he will do so for the rest of his life and, if he violates this law, he will never call for immunity; it should further mean that I will be in jail for the rest of my life or something like that. What it means to be a nationalist, which, for example, could have been said by Winston Churchill and Charles de Gaulle, who is a pattern of a nationalist, so in our premises, Slobodan Jovanovic, whom I mentioned, and even one of the children's poets like Uncle Jova Dragon. If you don't believe it anymore, if you trust your guest tomorrow, Mr. Joseph Biden, I'll tell you his definition of who he thinks is a nationalist. On April 28, 2002, in the US-Albanian League, Mr. Joseph Biden said: "Yugoslav Kostunica, who is a tough nationalist, is in conflict with Zoran Djindjic, who is also a nationalist." Please, when it comes to these formulations of nationalism, neonationalism, Nazism, fascism, let's see that term, where you draw these terms from, to see whether it is true that Marxist textbooks from which the citizens of this country have been taught and brought up in a historical dump or not, and whether the nationalist is the one you claim to be nationalist, the one that Joseph Biden claims to be a nationalist, or I can now speak freely who is a nationalist, because for my concept, the nationalist is also Mr Balint Pastor, who makes his own efforts for his nation, for his people as many elections within the state of Serbia, by all legitimate means. Giving the interior minister this much authority to decide and cut and who's to blame, and who's to pay, and how much he'll answer, is an introduction to a police state. I'm glad I heard the Socialists won't vote for this bill. You've made papaziania. If I were Vuk Draskovic, I'd address you in English and I'd tell you – don`t mix grandmothers and frogs, don’t mix your grandmothers and frogs, but you've mixed up a lot more. I must remind you that the motionary, who is even being called here to the Constitution, in an explanation, just not in the bill, has also brought in that calendar of the Duke's Republic, which is a witness against the constitution, but has never been asked for responsibility, no one has ever respected him for anything. You try to resort to the full political disqualification of political opponents, and now you're going to find easy excuses, but it won't be so easy to follow your hand. I remind you, the DSS has always sought and contributed to calming tensions in Serbia, which is a calmer political atmosphere. When we created the government in 2004, the number and killings on the streets and political killings and all that made Serbia adorned before that, and what you do is fostering division in both the people and the political life of Serbia. We cannot, by our political definition, by our own spirit, support such a papaziania and if something was not clear from our position and if it is not in the future, we can very easily delude, because it is evident that you have no arguments and no representative of the ruling coalition, your coalition partner, has publicly supported this law, with any argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19471	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19472	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, when a debate is being held on a law with a title like this and a text like this, in my opinion, we could look at two questions. One question would concern relations to the law with such an idea, and another – relations to the concrete text of the law, that is, this text that we have before us. Here, some of the debaters who came before me had a grudge, in general, against the legislation with this idea. I could not agree with that, because when social miles and the structure of society do not promise that certain harmful behaviours will be condemned or sanctioned, then the legislator should by law allow the sanctioning of such behaviour, of course, with the application of force, because the legislator is tasked not only to sanction certain social phenomena, but to be in the service of repairing society, by imposing civilization standards. So the approach itself to adopting a law with this title is not wrong, but it is wrong to write such texts of the law. I'm going to try to explain briefly why, trying not to repeat what the distinguished colleagues were saying before me. First of all, it's a matter of technical nature. We have talked with colleagues about some names and concepts that do not comply with the title of the law, which significantly alter the essence of this law. We have been given an explanation that it is a printing error, and we really want to believe that it is a printing error, but that is again the preamble to the question – what is it and whose reality it is, because this text that we have received is a public document, which essentially does not correspond to the intention of the legislator. Now very specifically, some colleagues were just talking about it, I'm going to make a few comments about the measure itself, about the very content of what the writer of the drafts is proposing. First of all, I'd stick to Article 3 of this text. It is said to be closer to the conditions for eradicating from the register set out in Article 2. Item 2 says – if a registered association or organisation shows a tendency to a neo-Nazi or fascist organisation or association during its operation, they are deleted from the register by law. Did the writer of this proposal have any awareness of what this draft gave authority to the interior minister and would the interior minister forbid these organizations if something looked like Nazi or fascist symbols to him? If, perhaps, the Minister of the Interior, if such a text of the law is adopted, will say – they are combed in a certain way, they look like something to me, such an organisation should be banned. This is inadmissible in democratic societies. Then I'd stick to Article 4. That article has already been quite said, I would just add that the inadmissible generality of this article, because its content does not give the possibility for the full application of this law, and it also offers these opportunities for abuses. If this is put into function as Article 3 of this draft law, then we can see what kind of danger this bill carries with it. I think that is also the view of the LDP Parliamentary Group, that this approach is inadmissible, because the concrete text of the law reflects the lack of knowledge of the methodology of rights and surfaces. Putting a bill like this in the process, considering it, voting on it, I find it inadmissible. There was much to do before this law entered the procedure and prevented such incomplete legal text from coming before the MPs, or before the National Assembly. At the end of my presentation, I would refer to something that was said before my presentation. I'd resent some fellow Members of Parliament for giving such an evaluation. First of all, I'd say demagogues don't defend civilization standards. Something about being born qualified or not qualified for something is also said here. By birth no one can be qualified or classified in a socially unacceptable way. Such an approach is a racist approach, in fact, the evening of fascism. I think such a relationship, such an approach to such social phenomena, is inadmissible. I would ask that, in our argument, we do not serve historical truths or ignorance, call it whatever you want, because, first of all, it is not true that there were never Serbs who were fascists by their political or ideological definition. So that's the wrong information. The false fact is there was no genocide before the Kragujevec. There's been a lot of them. All we can remember is what was in Tsar Russia, moving the people, or what was done in the Ottoman Empire with the Armenians. It was a long, long time before what happened in Kragujevac in 1941. I would resent the historical inconsistencies in the defense, or argument of certain claims made here. Let me resume. The feature of this text is not knowing the methodology of writing bill and surface. We're putting serious grudges on that approach. And, if the law is already imposed with such an idea, we insist on taking it more seriously, and particularly consider whether the Law prohibiting discrimination and Criminal Law have sufficient capacity to make the values declared in the law with this name of protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19473	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Radovan Radovanovic, an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19474	Madam Chairman, fellow Members and fellow MPs, the bill on banning manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and banning the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and markings stems from the definition of the vast majority of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the past, but also day and day. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina three years ago, on several occasions, launched the adoption of declarations and a bill on these and similar topics. We regret that only now has the time to talk about this in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that it is only now being adopted. Better ever than never. Since 1990, LSV programs have given us the right to be the very ones who propose this law. There were few political organizations that were against wars all along the 1990s, the evil that they bring. Not only with words, but with concrete action, the LSV continued to oppose any conflict with our neighbours. As far as the proposer of this law is aware, there is no organised operation of the pro-fascist organisations in our country, but we must not stick our head in the sand and pretend there are no such and similar events, whether in terms of marches, for example, what was to happen on 7 October 2007 in Novi Sad, but, not only the efforts of the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina, but also LDP and G17 plus, more citizens' associations and a large number of residents of Novi Sad and Vojvodina, we have made it clear that in Novi Sad, Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia cannot organise such gatherings. I remind you that our country's authorities could not legally prohibit this assembly because they had no basis for it. Are you printing propaganda material? We only remember Mr. Davidovic's brochure, the leader of the "National Machine", by the way, be proud of his nickname "Firer" and currently inaccessible to the authorities of our country, who are looking for him for a judicial verdict and, on the basis of it, the maintenance of the prison sentence. Does writing graphite spread national hatred and impatience? The last example I know of is from the middle I live in, from Backa Topola. On Saturday morning, the graphics "Death to Hungarians" appeared, and under the window of the LSV-Bačka Topola Public Organisation's office, the graphics came out – "Serbian Backa Topola". As upset as the citizens are, I don't have to stress. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina has always pointed to these phenomena, and therefore this time, for all those with any dilemma, we draw attention to the fact that Backo Topola is located in Bacak, AP Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia, and is neither Hungarian nor Serbian, nor Montenegrin, nor Russian, nor Slovak, nor anyone else's. It belongs to all its citizens who accept the written and unwritten rules by which they live in our country. If someone’s attitudes and efforts bother the LSV, they should know that they are only strengthening us in our insistence in implementing our work programme – decentralisation of the country, returning full autonomy to the AP Vojvodina and as quickly as possible conquering European standards of living in the Republic of Serbia. By adopting this bill, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia gives the authorities of the Republic of Serbia the opportunity to, under this law, all such and similar phenomena in the root section. Some today have tried to teach us a lesson in patriotism. I believe that only artists and children can speak of patriotism unconditionally, and that all others, especially MPs, should prove their devotion to the homeland and to their people. In Čačka, Kragujevac, or Valjev, you can go undetected in a shirt that says, for example, "Serbin", but in Bačka Topoli, where 29.8% of Serbs live on the 2001 census, and everything else are members of other peoples or national minorities, when it passes with one such shirt, then believe me, it causes a lot of things in those other than Serbs and causes these graphites or, God forbid, something worse. We have already talked to representatives of some parliamentary groups on the subject of this bill, and we remain open to talking to all others who have suggestions to improve the text of the law. This applies in particular to the SRS Parliamentary Group, which, according to our knowledge, is the only one who has submitted amendments to the proposal for this law. We didn't get a chance to see the other amendments. In order for the authorities of the Republic of Serbia to have a basis for a far better response in cases of occurrences treated by this law, the ZES parliamentary group will support it in the voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19475	Are any of the other authorised representatives or presidents answering for a word? National MP Tomislav Nikolic; available for six minutes and 30 seconds. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? You're getting a word based on article 100, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19476	As part of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I wanted to warn you that you've been conducting this session a little more carefully, and you've also caused a new injury. I'm telling you loudly that I want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and you're hitching me time. Please pay attention when we speak here and every one of us who makes a mistake that does not conform to the dignity of the National Assembly, to warn. And God and the ox, as they would say to Latina. So I ask you to listen when your representative, who spoke on your behalf today, is now, this time as a representative of your parliamentary group, and he was saying what you think, perhaps only in other words, says that whoever is wearing a T-shirt that says "This is Serbia" in Backo Topoli will cause anxiety. This, I suppose, advises us not to tell us in Backo Topoli that it is Serbia, or it will tell us many more places in which Serbs are not in most of our Serbia and who are banned for them, as if someone in Bačka Topoli Slovakia had banned them from writing "I am Slovak" on their shirt and as if Slovakia was once punished for what he wrote. Now someone in their country will be punished for wearing a T-shirt that says this is my country. Really, Mrs. Comic, come on and give yourself a little attention to this people's assembly. Start thinking like the president of the National Assembly, you've taken over a lot of the president's authority anyway, and it's very nice, but it's not just for painting. The session is conducted by taking care of the state, morals, everything and everything. Please, there's a rough attack on Serbia here. Do you need better proof than this last sentence spoken by the predecessor? We'll cause something if we tell Buck's Topola it's Serbia. It really doesn't make sense. Who sent you to this assembly in the first place, my dear sir? (President: Two minutes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19477	Thank you. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're probably calling on article 104. With a stenogram of the presentation of all the speakers today, you will see, first, that I listen carefully, and secondly, you will see that listening carefully implies listening carefully and listening to what I do not like. The only thing I liked was respecting the Rules of Procedure. A lot of speech here was on the verge of respect for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, but no MP has been interrupted, precisely because it is a matter that needs to be heard very carefully. I also did this in the case of the People's MP Radovan Radovanovic. I don't think he's made any difference from any of the other speakers in the session so far and has the right to replication. National MP Radovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19478	For the sake of the public, let me just say it again, and it can be seen in the stenogram, that it does not occur to me that I respect anyone that in any millimeter of the country of Serbia, someone can forbid them from pointing out that it is Serbia. If you listened well, I just wanted to, and I would like you, who come from the middle where most people live, to realize that writing on a shirt is not the word "Serbian", I don't mean the mark of the Republic of Serbia, but by saying, I wrote on my shirt that I am a Serb, that I am a Serb, is not proof of it, and it irritates everyone else. Trust me. Being a member of any nation means, first of all, being a good man. It's a belonging, and that's how you measure who's who, at least with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19479	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? (No) I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93, Section 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the principled search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted: the ZES Parliamentary Group, the New Serbia Parliament Group, the LDP Parliamentary Group, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, the DSS Group and the SRS Parliamentary Group. The first to be reported is the National MP of Olena Papuga. Do you want a word? (No) Given that the People's MP, Olena Papuga, is an authorised proposing representative, she has the right to receive a word whenever she wishes. The second in a row was the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic, followed by MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19480	I dared to wear this "Kosovo is Serbia" shirt, because I see people wearing shirts with Bruce Lee, and with that "United states of America," with Chee Guvar, etc., and I didn't see it cause any serious problems. What clearly exists as a problem are motives for passing such a law, and it is no accident that the legislator of such a bill is the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina, with NATO support and these, conditionally said, NGOs, in fact, the organisation of the government of some other countries that have leased huge space on Serbia's media scene. Those who have been trying for years to accuse only the Serbian people of all crimes committed in the Balkans in the last 100 years will likely accuse us of Iraq, will also accuse us of war in the Gulf, for all living Serbs will be guilty, thus achieving their sense of existence and justify the expectations and money they have invested in, now and in the form of a legal solution. I'm very interested in whether the other members of this "Semafor Coalition" will choose the asphyxiation of democracy and repression as a way of survival in power or not? It's just that putting such a law in the assembly procedure is a violation of democracy. The biggest problem is that this is not about disabling political opponents, but, in practice, about banning and persecuting an entire national body, a national identity. We return Sir to the Bronze Times and, at the small door, reintroduce verbal delicacy and hate speech. The law we adopted on discrimination will turn into a new discrimination against those who represent the traditional system of values. Each patriotic and national conscious organisation will be declared hooligan, neo-Nazi and fascist, and will now receive legal treatment. Meanwhile, the Serb people in Kosovo are suffering a humanitarian disaster and torture from these so-called ". European allies at KIM, and NATO fascism reaches an extreme level. It is no longer a question of where these domestic NGOs are to report on these kinds of NATO fascism, since they are not in the service of their people. What is also important is that Serbia also has Criminal Law, and the Constitution, has, in the end, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, and we do not need such a law against fascism, which was not really in Serbia. Why don't we, by analogy, make a law on banning politicians' participation in Riality Shows, like Big Brother? It is symptomatic that the LSV leader, according to whose views nationalism and Nazism are the same, always before a large gathering insists on such proposals. I don't think he's ignorant, I think he's just a traitor. And I think these questions are always activated in situations where you need to send a message out. This kind of scenario, to discuss this law on the eve of Joseph Beyden's visit, is no coincidence at all. The people of Serbia have long ceased to believe in coincidences. What are we actually sending as a message to the world? We're sending in a message that some conscious elements here, so this famous pro-European-oriented majority, will vote the laws that will finally end every trace of nationalism, patriotism, healthy national self-awareness, and Mr. Biden, I guess, will go away very pleased. I am also interested, since this law says that it will be specified, there will be a provision on what is fascism and Nazism, what is it called behavior when a man breaks a board on which the name of national television stands? In clinical practice, it is antisocial personality disorders, or, in Serbian terms, aggressive psychopaths. It's allowed, but you're not allowed to wear shirts...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19481	People's MPs, what you're saying right now, are not allowed to say. Please refrain from expressions and sentences that do not conform to each other's respect and without unnecessary disqualification. You have your time at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19482	Mrs. Komic, in professional psychiatric literature, there is a term called "antisocial personality disorder".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19483	People's MPs, this, as much as it may seem sometimes to you and others, has nothing to do with a psychiatric clinic. Please refrain from making a diagnosis or disqualification of other people based on your expertise. That's all I ask. Freedom of speech will not be compromised, the time I am wasting to warn you of the respect of the Rules of Procedure is not the time available to your parliamentary group, but it will not be allowed to speak beyond the limits of jurisdiction about other MPs. I'm just asking you to register again, so you can get the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19484	Did I get my word back? Okay. So one of the SPS leaders, Aleksandar Antic, president of Belgrade's Socialists, says Slobodan Milosevic would not give up because of any law. "I have a picture in my cabinet of former Serbian President and Socialist leader Slobodan Milosevic. I have no intention of removing it, whoever it is you're looking for. Everyone has the right to express their views, but personally no one, nor Canak, can make me remove a picture of my former president from the cabinet. That is my attitude and no one can change it," says Antic. Interestingly, there are more people who aren't really up for this Chank initiative. My question is, since the list of speakers says Mr. Canak will be the first to be reported, where is he at the moment, because I have reason to suspect that he may not have been arrested for anti-constitutional behavior?- I'm sorry. Now, the Novi Sad District Court has tried at least twice to listen to Nenad Canka for the criminal charges of Professor Jovan Deretic, or the Father's Movement of Serbia, since 27 January, and has failed to do so on two occasions. The first call was served and was due to be answered by the Court on Friday, February 6th, at 10:00 p.m. But two hours earlier, at 8:00 in the morning, a tip came from the Court that a bomb had been planted, so everything was delayed. The next time, in a magical way, Mr. Canak found himself in “The Great Brother, ” who apparently gave him refuge not to appear at the hearing on the criminal charges of Professor Jovan Deretic, who was referring to his propagating the map of the Republic of Vojvodina, which we still had in the building of that old congregation. The next possible hypothesis why Mr. Canak is not here is that he is arrested, and that is precisely on the basis of this law, which he himself adopted in advance, because in his time he was the leader of a rally of support to a Hague defendant. Mr. Zeljko Tomic talked about it, and I will read you the news from October 24, 2003. "More than two thousand police officers gathered in Belgrade on Friday to support UN war crimes indictee General Sreten Lukic. At the first public protest in Serbia's police history, members of the MUP, of which the vast majority in blue uniforms, said the indictment of crimes in Kosovo against Lukic was unfair and called for the allegations of former chief of staff for Kosovo to be questioned and the indictment dropped. Police Colonel Zoran Misic, who was also in Kosovo during the conflict, said police officers in Kosovo performed honorably and professionally. ''What's most interesting, do you know who was the only politician who was at that police rally and supported the Hague indictee, Sreten Lukic? Sir, absent, Nenad Canak, then as president of the Vojvodina Assembly. The top is what he said at the time: "The state that does not care about its state instruments will not exist. It is unfair for people who, from October 5th to this day, have truly professionally performed their duty, above all, loyally serving the will of citizens shown in the 2000 elections, now turn their backs and treat them like they do not exist and as if there was a way to dictate the fate of this country on the outside. I don't believe that deeply and that's why we're here," said Mr. Canak. "It was simple, we had an unfortunate situation in the country, when at one point the need for individual crimes to be treated in front of that international criminal court. I was convinced it was over. This doesn't make sense anymore," October 24th, 2003. Support for Sreten Lukic was then provided by Commander Žandarmeria Goran Radosavljevic, head of Belgrade police Milan Obradovic, as well as several senior officers of the MUP, Jazimir Vasiljevic, for example, but also supporters of Veselina Sljivancanin, who were screened by Nenada Canka. It is possible that this frustration acted as a kind of an ambulatory lobotomy, so this man, the proponent, changed his attitude. He changed his attitude, so he now began to advocate abolishing, or banning, the SRS. So, on 8 February 2004, LSV leader Nenad Canak said the initiative to abolish Vojvodina's autonomy is anti-constitutional and that the SRS should be banned immediately because of this stance. Canak said in an interview for the weekend of the daily "Madjar So" that he would not be surprised if Belgrade disbanded the Vojvodjanski Parliament and called new elections, but that such, possibly, a decision by the Vojvodina would not find unprepared. So a state that is not indifferent to extreme chauvinist outbursts is not democratic, but fascist, says a man after only a year. We don't need any special wisdom to draw such a conclusion. In Vojvodina we will work to create a wide platform that will fight strongly against fascist phenomena. There have been various comments from people here that, in fact, the only real fascist Canak, who wants to introduce a totalitarian state, but I'm going to skip it, so you don't warn me that again something, I don't know what, I'm misusing. My question is: will Mr. Canak arrest, for example, a person in the role of Serbian President, based on this law and this attitude? "It's not Europe's property, it's not Belgians, it's not Dutch, Europe's as Serbian as it is theirs." Tadic also said he would never accept Kosovo's independence, whatever some politicians here and some European politicians say, the enemies of European Serbia. So, the real question is, are these words in the role of the president of Serbia for the conviction of Mr. Chank? Furthermore, on 11 May 2009, in an interview with TV B92, he expressed expectations that LDP lawmakers would vote in favour of the law proposed by LSV, which should be adopted by parliament largely, and estimates that this law is a major step forward, as it determines who the person whose title is a criminal act, and this finally brings us into a position, Canak said, that stories about "Young People" as heroes, or Radovan Karadzic, become crimes. The LSV leader announced what we had just heard, however, from the European Serbia, that under this law MPs who wear T-shirts and badges will be punished if they are carried outside the Assembly, which is a special place, because, by law, the MP cannot be held accountable for his position in front of the speaker and for what he voted for. A step further is to ban the wearing of badges and T-shirts outside the Assembly, for example, a T-shirt such as "Kosovo is Serbia", as we heard from you, a T-shirt that says "I am a Serb", even T-shirts that would say "I am a patriot," that, my God, would not disturb the public in these multiethnic environments. What Cankova’s funny youth performed as a kind of April joke in the centre of Novi Sad was the division of flyers on which it said “Vojvodini was returned full autonomy” and then “aprilili. ” On the one hand, it was written on the fly that the Dukes would be able to dispose of what they had earned, that the Vojvodina was returned to the property that had been taken away, that Vojvodina had original incomes and that the Duchess and the Dukes could decide on their lives. All these sentences were crossed out in large letters "aprilili", and on the other hand, the leaflet writes that, with the draft law on determining jurisdiction, which is to be adopted in the Serbian Parliament, Vojvodina is not guaranteed any property, no original income, no original jurisdiction. These actions of his youth are interesting, as are his actions by showing the map of the Republic of Vojvodina in the same assembly. Now I have to read, you can see from all this... (President: National MPs, time available to your MP's group has been used). I'm done. So, before my presentation, I shared something that could represent a kind of test for the MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19485	People's MPs, time has been used, and that means you don't have any more time at your disposal. Thank you. People's ambassadors who earn forgot that, because of the violations of the Rules of Procedure, the MP was interrupted, warned that it was crossing the line of tolerance, choosing expressions and arguments during this debate, and that I said that time would be stopped. At that point, she had two minutes and 30 seconds at her disposal. The moment I said time was used, she had eight minutes and 55 seconds, almost nine minutes. The total time available to the NS Parliamentary Group is 10 minutes and 48 seconds. In order for us to be able to comment, I ask you all together to closely monitor what's going on in the O.R. National MP Miroslav Markicevic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19486	Dear Vice President, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104 - the dignity of the Assembly. I can see that only the NS MPs, Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic, have been warned by some of your criteria, what can be said and what cannot be said here. Please be patient and equal to everyone and yes, at least as long as you sit behind that chair from which you chair the Assembly, your personal beliefs, ideological and political, keep to yourself. I don't know what it is that Mrs. Jankovic said that you interrupted her, so you got the time back, so now we're collecting. At the basketball game, if you were to measure the second, do you know how to end, say, the Red Star derby – Partizan? From what Mrs Jankovic said about one individual, the average man who doesn't deal with medicine sees that everything is clear and true what she said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19487	People's MPs, here are the MPs from the O.R. who get no injuries, so they agree with me. First of all, I ask you not to be false in your reasoning. No one has been warned during this session. Please consider before we speak the public word, she is the responsibility of all of us. No one's been warned. If you'd like to warn me not to apply Article 104 equally, I can only direct you to reading the stenogram. You will see that, in most of the exhibitions so far, the argumentation, in part, has been reduced to very free associations, in part, to disqualification of the lawmakers and, thirdly, to the presentation of their own attitude. No one's been interrupted. The exchange of replicas between the two MPs was because one MP had an assessment that there was an error of interpretation. National MP Aleksandra Jankovic crossed that line. You can't give mental, mental, or any diagnosis in disqualifying people whose political attitudes you want to take down with your political views. It is a line that does not cross and that is why it has been warned that it is a violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If you want an exact quote, you can make an insight into the stenogram of the presentation of the Parliament of the People's Parliament, Aleksandra Jankovic. National MP Aleksandra Jankovic advertises a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19488	Vice President, you've completely misread me, I was wondering if the behavior...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19489	People's MPs, you can't ask for a replica to explain the chairman. You can only get the word and say which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. With the risk of once again challenging the disfavor of most Members of the Parliament, I ask you to read the members of the Rules of Procedure to which you are calling and then seek the rights that arise from those members. It cannot be otherwise, for injustice is different for others who do so, or read the contents of the members to whom they are called. National MP Srdjan Spasojevic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19490	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, I would like to point to the violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 27. Mrs. Komic, we have come from this place, wishing Mrs. Jankovic would complete her presentation; there is still time from the deputy head of the Parliament group, who did not take advantage of all the time he had. That's why we wanted her to continue. This time, quite correctly, I would like to say, it is impossible for you to not hear when Hope Kolundzia, a few days ago, threw herself out of place and when all the MPs of the opposition put themselves in the protection of the head of the Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19491	People's MP, the breach of the Rules of Procedure can only be explained for a part of the session immediately before you ask for a word. Article 27, which you are quoting, failed to explain that he was injured because you said you requested that MP Aleksandra Jankovic take advantage of the time of the authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group. You and I both know it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The time available to the president of the parliamentary group is 20 minutes during the debate. The president of the parliamentary group may authorise any member of his parliamentary group to present himself on his behalf and at any time, as the president of the parliamentary group may take the floor. Any MP cannot replace the president of the parliamentary group. Please, and I really warn you not to abuse the rights arising from the right to use article 100 and to ask you to speak of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19492	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say, we were surprised that this law was on the agenda. Of course, we support the idea that in this congregation there is a proper discussion of what is likely to be the need of a legislator of this law, which we unfortunately have not been able to fully recognize. Let me, at first, say and answer two questions that have been raised in the discussion, which is whether there is a need for such a law and why we are now adopting that law. I think it is quite clear that the need to adopt one of these laws exists, although the part already regulated by this law has already been regulated by the Law on Violations, and the other part has been regulated by the Law against Discrimination and the overall existing legislation, or the legal framework, has not prevented those organisations and those groups of people from doing so. Those arguments that have been heard, which is whether or not there is such a thing in Serbia, I don't think they should be the subject of discussion. We were all witnesses last week when the state of Italy delivered a man who calls himself "Firer," leaving no place to think about what kind of leader it is. We're all witnessing groups of people celebrating Hitler's birthday, trying to schedule meetings on that date. That's what the police, with more or less success, have prevented. The need for this law is much deeper. These are just some kind of manifestations of it. From my point of view, the angle of LDP MP, a Serb by nationality, is fascism and the call of parols: "knife, wire, Srebrenica" in Serbia, "Kill, kill a Serb', in Croatia, in Sarajevo – "Kill, slaughter, that the Serb does not exist". We're a society that came out of a catastrophic period. At the premises of the former Yugoslavia, in the 1990s, bloody wars were waged, not by the number of victims, but by works done on behalf of some peoples. None of the former Yugoslavia's people have clearly been fenced by those criminals who committed these acts on behalf of those peoples. I think that the need, which we don't see in this law, except in Article 4, but the unknown, much greater than the need to contain fascism, the fascism that, as a notion, probably ceased to exist after World War II. He's not terrible at that notion, he's terrible at the consequences he leaves behind. I think that in Serbia we have to fight exactly these things that I have stated, that everyone has the right to wear any "I am a Serb" shirt anywhere, but no one has the right to yell "kill, slaughter, that Shiptar doesn't exist", no one has the right to yell "the knife, the wire, the Srebrenica", no one has the right to take over the defense of these terrible acts done on behalf of Serbia. We are Serbian MPs and we must first worry about the crimes committed on behalf of Serbia, in order to give us the right to achieve the right of those of our countrymen who were also victims of the 1990s. As long as we don't make it there, let's not allow anyone to identify the role and responsibility of criminals and victims, let's not, even under the law, that this terrible crime in Srebrenica can be justified by a previous crime in Bratunc, since they are both crimes. One crime cannot justify another. No one has the right to do this, and in particular we do not have the right, on behalf of the majority people in Serbia. And as long as the line does not exist, which is Serbia's priority, Serbia will not move forward. He won't. It is also an answer to the question – why now, while the crisis, while people strike, why should the Serbian Parliament now discuss this? It should be debated because normal and rich lives of citizens are the result of a normal system of values, every normal state that works, which respects its civilizational, moral, ethical norms. One of these standards is human rights and an honest relationship with the past, the other – the free market, etc. Only then will the citizens live normally, but not by waiting for Mladjan Dinkic to solve the problem of small businessmen. That's not true. The role of the congregation is to build a system of values and organize this society so that everyone can live from their work. One of the preconditions is this law. On the other hand, the unequivocal support of the LDP is unambiguous. Our problem with this text of the law is that we do not recognize the seriousness of the ruling majority to do so. Please, in addition to scandalous mistakes, such as the name of a non-existent court in Article 4, the name of that court is not what you mentioned, until the inadmissible freedom of interpretation of the law's intention to defend someone, or to prevent the defense of someone who is only convicted, who is only accused. I'm sorry, so I guess the point is that a law like this, which is principled and declarative, is dealt with with by the works that are being tried there, and indirectly, or indirectly, and with the persons who have done those acts! The point is in the works, the essence is in Srebrenica, by Serbia, I repeat it once more. On the other hand, the ruling majority cannot be identified as being serious. That's why I shouldn't mention, the SPS, who was discussing today and complaining about why this is on the agenda, when I don't know what it is. Well, you voted, gentlemen, for that agenda. No one in the opposition voted. You voted, why are you surprised now? This law and this entire session are scheduled in a strange way. I have checked that it may not be a mistake, but all the consultations held in the Serbian Parliament were on whether or not the Assembly is working on Gjurdevdan. That was a month ago. None since. This law has been in the procedure since 10 October 2008, this bill, I apologize. Could it have been possible to change it to amendments, would the amendments have been agreed by the promoters? It wasn't possible. The assembly was scheduled Tuesday, Tuesday night was the deadline for the amendment. Our parliamentary group has arrived only to deal with traffic safety laws. We are forced to deal with a text that we disagree with, which is filled with holes, gaps, indiscretions, freedom for the Minister of the Interior, whether or not we appreciate it, that he decides whether or not he... Here, let's just take the most radical example, so Article 5 says, "The manifestations and gatherings where some opposite opinion is expressed towards people of a different political definition." So, is the LDP rally, where we talk negatively, for example, about SNS, Fascism? He'll appreciate it, Ivica Dacic. There's little seriousness in this text. I hope that's not a relationship to this subject, which is, of course, important. As the representative of our parliamentary group said, we will wait for the committees to amend this text, among other things, to change the word "nationalist" into "nasistic", if that was the intention, and other things to correct. Then we'll say if we're ready to back him up or not. Unfortunately, I think our remarks are of some importance. They're not just remarks of editorial nature. I explained why we didn't have time to influence this text, to make it acceptable to a wider group of MPs. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19493	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. After him, a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. Please, just sign in. Please register, Article 231.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19494	I'm sorry. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law banning the manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organizations and associations and banning the use of neo-Nazi and fascist symbols and markings. When it comes to a law that bears such a name, of course there is reason for the SPS-JS Group to support such a law, because it is about regulating the manifestations of such associations and groups which, at the moment, have no place in Serbia. In the same way, the first member of this law, which prohibits manifestations, highlighting symbols or characters or any other mark, the operation of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations, which can in any way be violated by constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, and prescribe sanctions for the violation of this law. As we have already heard in the discussion of some MPs, this member is absolutely in the spirit of what is the name of this law and it is quite acceptable. However, when it comes to the 2nd member of this law, the second position is already disputed, because it seems not in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, more specifically, with the 55th member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that the Constitutional Court can only prohibit that association whose operation is aimed at violent destruction of constitutional order, violation of guaranteed human and minority rights or the cause of racial, national and religious hatred. This right belongs only to the Constitutional Court, to no other body, nor to the Ministry, nor to the Ministry of the Interior. One who manages the register of associations can delete from the register the association, for example, which propagates or manifests such behaviours and attitudes, but only by a decision of the Constitutional Court. In this regard, the third position of this member is absurd, i.e. The 2nd member, said to be closer to the conditions for eradicating from the register set out in Article 2, is prescribed by the interior minister. First, it seems to be a ban, and the Constitutional Court's decision is made, and then it's only then that the registration from the register is made. This will probably not belong to the Minister of the Interior, or the Ministry of the Interior, because according to the Bill on Citizens' Associations, which will be very soon on the agenda, this job of registering and deleting from the register, following the Constitutional Court's decision, will be carried out by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. I am not sure that the manifestations of certain processes of this nature are not created somewhere in some other circles, deliberately and intentionally, with the desire for Serbia to appear as a retrograde country, which generates fascism. After all, and if there are such phenomena at this point, even though the Criminal Law does not cover this matter, it is possible to supplement it, and that would solve this problem. So it turns out that we're a country where fascism and Nazism are taking over, so, Malten, we need an ad hoc law, for this opportunity some kind of lex specialist. The third article says that they are propagating or justifying nationalist and fascist ideas. So a new term is being introduced, where, in some ways, nationalism is kind of equating, or nationalism turns out to be some kind of fascism, which is really unacceptable. Nationalism, as is known, has a very broad spectrum, from what may be, perhaps, the most valuable, which is patriotism, the expression of patriotism, to some of the darkest variations, such as chauvinism, but we cannot ban nationalism as a form of expression of our views in relation to what is our country and our people. After all, this law cannot allow some kind of spiritual denationalization. Finally, in article 6, we have another new name, which is a ban on the spread of neonationalism. I think that term is also very controversial and it defines nothing that is specific to what is nationalism and once again gives the possibility to understand this law in very different ways. Finally, on behalf of the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, I remind you that, when it comes to anti-fascists, there are, as well as many, double standards in Serbia. On behalf of that, I remind you that the names of the streets, squares and institutions that bore the names of the anti-fascists of World War II and who gave their lives in the fight against fascism are changing back ten years. That question is very significant and contrary to what some are now trying to show themselves to the great anti-fascists. The SPS-JS is, in any case, against what manifestations are or any kind of expression of neo-Nazi and fascist ideas at this time and we've always been against it. The eventual acceptance of this law involves one detailed revision of all of what is written here, so that all of this is framed and applied only to what belongs in a narrow sense, i.e. what is defined and considered to be Nazism and fascism, and not to leave in such an undefined way the possibility of very difficult consequences in international relations. I would like to appeal to the motionary to discuss this. In case we come to such a definition of the law that it clearly refers to the phenomena of fascism and Nazism, we can discuss its acceptance. Otherwise, the SPS-JS Group will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19495	The word is a folk letter from Nada Kolundzija, and after it is the Messenger of the people Milos Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19496	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that the debate on the proposal for this law has also shown that this is a subject that requires that it be discussed in this society. This issue has raised several key doubts and some dilemmas and some clear views. I don't want to talk about the fact that in the debate here, first of all, the dispute and disqualification of the promoters, because I think it's something that won't contribute to this issue, which is very important, we're talking about in a way that will lead us to see how to solve it in the best possible way. The second dilemma that has arisen here is whether by opening this topic and proposing to pass the law we are, in fact, acknowledging that there is fascism and neonasism in Serbian society, is it in some way a recognition of the world that Serbia has this kind of problem? If that were the case, that would be an additional reason for us to talk about this and pass the law, but no one here has testified that this law is needed because of some growing fascism or neonacism in Serbia. The next question that opens here is the very text of the law. I think we have heard a few very valuable remarks and several important suggestions here, so you can even say the instructions on how to correct this text of the law in order to achieve what is its basic purpose. I don't think any country can represent itself in a bad light if it speaks in a clear and open way of saying that it's not ready to tolerate any phenomenon within itself that, I say, heritage of ideas or a valuable system of fascism or Nazism. Of course, those who say nationalism is wrong here. So it shouldn't stand in this law. It is right that those who say that the law must assume the presumption of innocence and that it must not refer to individuals accused before courts, but are right and those MPs who claim that the acts for which they are accused should be subject to this law and that these acts should be sanctioned. We will try carefully, respecting everything we have heard, to do everything that this law, precisely in the areas where the objections have been very justified, to correct and bring into line with a basic idea, which we have no doubt, is that Serbia is a country that wants to build such a value system in which crimes will in no way be able to find support in individuals or in groups or in society. So, we believe in the sincerity of this idea, and for that reason, with the legislator and the representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have spoken very clearly about some of the shortcomings of this law, we will do everything we can to correct this text of the law, in order that it will respond to what is intended, we believe, the promoter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19497	National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19498	Today, you have done several violations of the Rules of Procedure, as the first promoter, and now the president of the parliamentary group of the ruling majority, said that this law could be corrected, not that it could not be adopted in the form in which it was proposed, so Mrs Kolundzija also mentioned the word "non-nationalism", instead of saying "neonazim", and also spoke of the presummation of innocence. You should have told them there was no business opportunity for this law to be corrected. Because you carefully follow the session, please read the stenogram, and if you want to talk about the Rules of Procedure, please read the Rules of Procedure as well. Unfortunately, respected promoters, you have no right to change your bill anymore. We, as MPs, also no longer have the right to change your bill. Only the Committee may, if a conflict arises between the amendments adopted and some provisions of the members of the law - amend that provision by the members of the law. So I ask you not to deceive the public – that you are saying that you will correct the proposal so that it will be adopted. Either the law will be passed, so that you punish us all whenever you want, or you will say to these: “We do not need your quorum so much that we must make every law that you propose to the National Assembly to accept. ” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19499	I suppose the disdain of the MPs who said it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I must refer it to a detailed reading of the business provisions, as in the time between the beginning of the principle debate, if the session is in regular procedure or by emergency procedure, and the opening of discussions in particular, the committee responsible may submit an amendment, if it considers it necessary. We are currently in a joint principled search, i.e. this point is special, therefore, in principle search. By managing time, we will most likely begin the debate on amendments, on the first item of the agenda, on the proposal for a traffic safety law, or on the 21st or 22nd. If MPs look at the number of amendments, it can be estimated when the debate will take place on the agenda for the item of the agenda that is now under discussion in principle. The Committee can therefore propose an amendment between the launch of the debate in principle and in particular. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji is not the legislator of the law. People's Parliament, Nada Kolundzija, used the time available to the MEP for European Serbia. The proposer's authorised representative is Olena Papuga's National MP. Lawmaker Nenad Canak, as the first signed in front of the bill, sent authority for it, and MP Radovan Radovanovic is the mandated representative of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia and has been given by the president of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia. Whether and how the bill will be amended depends solely on the MPs, and it is evident that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're not happy with the answer? Would you like the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19500	You injured the Rules of Procedure when you said there was a deadline for submitting amendments and that it was time until the debate began in particular at this session. If a session is called within a short period of time from the prescribed Rules of Procedure, amendments may be submitted until the beginning of the first principle debate, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly. That deadline's over. The second deadline you're talking about is the time limit in the communicator, committee or government can submit an amendment, but only in case an amendment has been adopted that requires some regulation to be adapted. Thirdly, it's a proposing representative, but you don't listen carefully to the session, answer our remarks, say it's a mistake, and that the error will be corrected. Please, therefore, you cannot correct that mistake in the Rules of Procedure the intended way. I therefore ask the proposing representative to plead - whether he remains on the proposal as he stands, so he will not receive votes, apparently, any parliamentary groups, or will withdraw the proposal from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19501	People's MP, you reiterated your objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and said an argument which is in substance and meaning contrary to what you said for the first time, so it is both abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In your first address, you said there was no way to submit the amendments. I told you you were wrong and there's a way. In the second address, you said there was a way and that it could be done either by the board or by the government. Now, to remove any doubt, I'll say the following. In the case of a session under way, the deadline for amendments was 7 May at midnight, five days before the beginning of the session, and this applies to each of the MPs, or together with the MPs who wanted to submit an amendment to any law. That time limit is when the session is in a regular procedure. I was also talking about it. I also talked about the case when the session was scheduled for emergency procedure – when every MP can submit amendments until the debate begins in principle. In both cases, and when the session is scheduled for an emergency and regular procedure, the Committee, the parent, competent, shall have the possibility to submit an amendment between the final debate in principle and before the debate has begun in particular. Your request to make the proposal known now is legitimate, but it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure and represents the free will of the promoter, or the authorised representative, whether or not he will answer you. It has nothing to do with during the session. You want to point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure again. There is a word from the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic – a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19502	I would ask you to interpret the Rules of Procedure, not write it. So, the committee can't, after the debate in principle, and before the debate in particular, file amendments, but during the vote in particular, so please read Article 150. There's only one attitude, and it's not hard, there's only three lines, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19503	National MP, I ask you to read all the members concerning the submission of the amendment: 139, 142, 142, 150, 87, and I ask you to read and those members who do not refer to the course of the vote, when the chairman may request a session – during the vote, if there has been an amendment that is in collegiate with the already adopted member, or is in colluding with the other amendment. You're talking about two different situations in the National Assembly session. You are talking about voting, and I am talking to you about the members of the Rules of Procedure relating to the time between the principled search and the opening of the search in particular, Rule 142. I hope we're clear now. There is the word of the People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic, and after him the Messenger of the people Srdjan Milivojevic. National MP Vladan Batic is asking for a word. You should get your word when the debate is over. Now he has the word of MP Milos Aligrudic, because I have already given him my word. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19504	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this time I'm speaking to the legislator, at the very beginning I have to tell you something, so that it doesn't happen again later, and it was already said in one parliamentary matter about a week and a half ago. Now that this is on the agenda, it's not burning again. This is the only bill submitted by the MPs, which is now on the agenda of the National Assembly during this year. This does not mean that there were no other proposals for MPs. Of course there were, but Parliament President did not find them appropriate to propose them for the agenda of the session. When we mentioned two concrete draft laws submitted by DSS MPs, one is the determination of the authority of Vojvodina, and the other is the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Debt. The first one should not be explained, because we talked so much about it in public, and the second one should have served the government as a legal basis so that it could be in charge of the IMF, because it negotiates with the IMF without any legal basis. If it's not an emergency, then I don't know what else is. Then this law is put on the agenda. Furthermore, to our question – which is why our laws, which are in the procedure, are not proposed for the agenda of this session, was the answer: "Yes, these are important drafts of the law, but for which no government opinion has yet come, so Parliament President decided not to put these drafts on the agenda." Where is the Government's opinion on this bill, which is on the agenda today? It doesn't exist. Using the President of Parliament's argument, the unambiguous conclusion is that this is not an important bill at all. Because, according to the President-in-Office's argument, he would probably have waited, as the important proposals of the DSS law awaited, the government's opinion. So we've cleared up the first and the basics. It is an insignificant bill, according to the President's position. When it comes to the bill itself, reading its title, a man could not disagree. I cannot believe that there is a single MP sitting in this home who would have one word of praise for neo-Nazi or fascist ideas, which are basically totalitarian ideas, behind whose ideology lies the totalitarian concept of society, devoid of political pluralism, in which the rights and freedoms of citizens are stifled, in which the possibility of political pluralism is suppressed through a multi-party system and which, as a light motif, has always been haunted by different grounds, of which the German vision of 20th-century Nazism was the worst, because as a lightmotive of its action, had persecution on various grounds and on a national basis. These are the phenomena that are for every condemnation and against which every modern society and democracy must rise and fight, not to allow in any way the cry of such phenomena to be confused in the system, in society, in the community in which we live. From that point of view, when the title of this bill is read, it seems justified. However, when you look at the text of this bill and there is some understanding about the president of the party that makes up the parliamentary group that submitted the text of this proposal, then you can see, in fact, that this bill does not serve anything but political exhibitionism, one such exhibitionist act by the leader of the LSV party, which through the provisions of this law introduces a ban, which makes it probably all happy that he finally proposed them somewhere, through various announcements of criminal charges and lawsuits against his fellow MPs who have managed to record some irregularity in this National Assembly, so they are probably guilty of someone else being irregular. So there's nothing but trying to make his own faults, his own aggressive rhetoric, his own, obviously totalitarian approach to politics and social relations project through this law to others. That's the essence of what's going on here. About politics so much, and now I'm going to go, I'm going to try to be as brief as possible, some legal explanations about this law, which will disqualify it from the beginning to the end. With the exception of Article 1, which is discriminatory because of motive and intent, not so much because of title and content, if we start already from Article 2 of this proposal, paragraph 2 is said – if a registered association or organisation in its course shows a tendency to a neo-Nazi or fascist organisation or association, they shall be deleted from the register by force of the law. It will be done by the interior minister, by prescribing the conditions for erasure from the register. Does the bill promoter know that associations of citizens and organisations in Serbia are deleted from the register they are registered in? To answer that question, it is necessary to read the Law on Social Organisations and Associations of Citizens, which is an old law, is still in force, and we do not have a new one because the ruling coalition has decided to withdraw the bill that was almost in the assembly procedure, which we have not heard of a word of explanation until today. This law, namely, regulates the procedure and procedure of deleting organs and organisations from the register. Furthermore, there are different terms, the terms used in this law, which, because this law has a specificity or speciality to other regulations in the country, deserve to be explained. I can understand, from a lay or some scientific level, that the concept of neonasism or fascism is clear, or neofascism is clear, but if we write the text of a law that has in it any criminal provisions that incriminate certain behavior, thereby protecting certain social values, automatically, then it means that there must be some concepts and that it must be known exactly what individual terms or concepts used in this law are related to. That's why my colleagues, I think even the LDP colleagues before me, have made it clear that certain expressions, such as "different political definition", "personal determination", "nationalism" and the like, must be explained in the context of this law, because if that is not the case, then we come to the stage of full volunteerism in those who decide on the consequences, or sanctions that this law provides, i.e... those who in practice interpret this law and should apply sanctions under this law. Article 5 of this proposal states – a event, gathering or in any other way the operation of members or supporters of neo-Nazi and fascist organisations. First of all, to be clear about this term, the organisation is, in terms of Serbia's positive regulations, the organisation that is registered. I don't know if we've ever registered a neo-Nazi or fascist organization, which doesn't mean there may be a need for some people, which we have to be against, to organise on this and on this basis and to act in society, which should be prevented. So that's the first inaccuracy. It is said to be considered any event, any organised or spontaneous public gathering at which hate or spread or intolerance towards members of any nation or national minority, which is understandable and fine, or towards the persons of a different political and personal commitment. Imagine, that has already been said earlier, it is not burning again, the gathering of a political party, let's say, LSV, where LSV will be expressed rather negatively in a political sense, spreading impatience towards DSS and president of the party, Vojislav Kostunica, and that this is true and that in practice it is regularly repeated, the birds on the border know, small children and all citizens of Serbia. Does this mean that LSV will come alone under the laws laid down in Article 5 of this Act? Obviously they will, because we are hurt, or offended by the statements you use, that we are clerofastics, that we are a party to fascist ideology or something like that. We believe that this spreads impatience and hatred towards a normal, registered political party, who twice had a prime minister in this country, and that your political exhibitionism may, perhaps, serve to move from 0.5% to 0.6% in the region of Vojvodina, meaning, in the part of that territory of our country, because you don't operate on the entire territory of Vojvodina, nor do you have such popularity everywhere. So that's what you do to speed up your rating. That's your problem. But then it's funny that you propose such a provision of the law. Furthermore, there are many things here, it is that these incriminations, in practice, are neither incrimination, these are prescribed offences for which fines are imposed, within that extent – minimum and maximum, which the Law on Infringements knows. When you look at it and compare it to Article 317. Criminal Code, see how all this sounds funny and what kind of legal and political pleonism it is, and pleonasm is repeating the same in another way, in the legal system. To be very clear, all that you have prescribed, except for badges, badges, flags and symbols, is written in other regulations of the Republic of Serbia and can be applied directly by the court, not in criminal proceedings, but in criminal proceedings, for which it goes to prison. This is what Article 317 reads. Criminal Code – national, racial and religious hatred and impatience are required. It's got a lighter and harder shape. For a lighter form, it goes from three months to three years in prison, and for a harder form, it can be six years in prison. I don't see any reason for things to double. The essence of the rebellion against neonasism and fascism in ideological terms is in the totalitarian idea, but the totalitarian idea is already protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in its provisions, absolutely protects the state from totalitarian ideas and there are criminal provisions in the Criminal Code that sanction such behaviour or such attempts. So, there is nothing here that has not been regulated by the Criminal Code, the Law on the Gathering of Citizens, in which it is very clear, in Article 9, says "The Authority of Jurisdiction", which is the MUP, "will temporarily prohibit a public assembly aimed at violently changing the Constitution of established order, violating territorial integrity and independence of the Republic of Serbia, violating constitutionally guaranteed freedoms and human and citizen rights, causing and encouraging national, religious, racial intolerance and hatred". What may not be covered here, that I do not read a whole set of regulations in this country, such as the almost adopted Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, which also provides for criminal sanctions for perpetrators of acts sanctioned by that law, so the only thing that comes out of the framework of what is already regulated here is the notion that is not worked out, the issue of neonasism, nationalism, fascism and other, various badges, flags, symbols, web pages and so forth. But if you look at the formulation of Article 317. The criminal code, which states that whoever causes racial, national or religious hatred, impatience among peoples or ethnic communities living in Serbia, will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years, I was wrong for a moment. Easier work – from six months to five years, up to eight years is maximum, and 10 years for the most difficult form of this work. It's just that whatever you do that upsets this hatred or encourages these acts, it's the website, wearing badges, wearing swastikas, i.e. The cowardly cross on the flag you would take to Prince Michael's street merits the public prosecutor's reaction and falls under sanctions. Why make a circus out of a special law like this, so that in a special way... Yes, and that's the only reason and the place where you could act, but then it doesn't deserve this attention that you wanted to give to this law. To avoid further debt, there is a series of irregularities, legal irregularities, political exhibitionism, duplication of concepts, double sanctioning of something that is even worse, more strictly sanctioned in other laws that this state knows and what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has paid attention to. Since you, I assume, have lived today, waiting for a legal, nomotechnically incorrectly composed text to be found on the agenda, which must suffer changes by writing again, I suppose you have received your satisfaction, and I sincerely hope that you will not get any votes, except perhaps yours, in the day of voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19505	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19506	Thank you very much. Madam President, honourable MPs, we are here to discuss one measure of whether a law is needed to sanction some symbols and some political views. Sometimes the law in a much deeper way determines what our democratic development will look like. Two facts are safe, today we are rebuilding a multi-party, pluralist system in Serbia, and, secondly, it is true that recently in Serbia, in recent years, some have appeared, probably quite small, but very direct racist organisations. There are two attitudes when it comes to this. One is the attitude of absolute liberalism, which some European countries have, that every political idea is allowed until the moment it produces some result that is sanctioned by some other law, and some European countries, such as Germany and Austria, sanction very specific Nazi and fascist ideas, because of their historical experience, or the feelings of citizens, legislation, political parties, that it is necessary. We need to define ourselves here. This is where both opinions were heard. It's obvious that MPs are divided, but that's the essence of the debate we're having, so whether any idea is allowed until the moment it starts to work and then it's regulated by other laws, or if it takes such a law, which is very clear and specific to prohibit only those ideas. I'd say next. I would support the existence of such a law, but I would like to warn you, and it is very important that I convey this message, given my entire political action – it is dangerous by law to ban those ideas that, in my political opinion, are totally unacceptable, because then we can take a step towards totalitarianism. In other words, the law must be very specific, which some MPs have pointed out here. I can't give you any general terms, so-called. legal norms, because then you would leave judges and judicial councils to decide, which also poses certain dangers to court practice. The laws of this type in Europe sanction exclusively Nazi and fascist symbols and, directly, Nazi and fascist ideas. Other ideas, as unacceptable as they may be, cannot be sanctioned in such a way as this law, because then we come to a very slippery terrain, that one society at a given time prescribes which political ideas are allowed to be publicly represented. One more remark. There have been a variety of depressions here, historic ones, and there have been false historical quotes, etc., some say this would mean that our country thus acknowledges the existence of such ideas. You have ideas like this in all societies in Europe, we are nothing special, absolutely all of them have this, and they relate differently to it, but the Serbian people have suffered from Nazism and fascism, and then I would use a completely different logic. From the point of view of that logic, you have the right to forbid it. If anyone does not believe, in Belgrade, walk only to the Jayans and look at how many thousands of people were shot during an occupation near Belgrade, killed in a Banjska camp, a fairist, which was in NDH. So there's a reason to ban such ideas, but the law has to be very specific, it has to say. If you forbid any politically unacceptable idea, however disgusting it is for me as a chauvinist, nationalist idea, then you go to one slippery terrain that when someone else comes to power tomorrow, they will pass a law banning some other liberal ideas, because there are views here that the plot to join NATO, etc., is also dangerous in the interests of the Serbian people and the state, it is a road that is dangerous. Once again, I want to be very precise in what I'm saying, the law must be specific, it must clearly refer to clear fascist and Nazi ideas, to be clearly defined in the law. The minister can't determine it, the court has to determine it, courts are the place where such sanctions are imposed in societies. Those who are banned have the right to complain, but at this point I think Serbia has reason to pass such a law, because certain Nazi groups that have appeared very openly, I have been to these gatherings, protested, wear a cowardly cross very clearly, are clearly rising with Nazi symbols. It is marginal and little, but it disturbs the public, reminds us of a tragic historical experience and there are reasons for our society to pass a clear law against it. The rest, dear friends, is a political struggle that will never stop and cannot fit into the law, but can only stand what is called the fight of Democrats against those who are totalitarian, who do not want democratic institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19507	I thank Professor Korac. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19508	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, a country that has a million and 700,000 victims in World War II, resisting fascism, should certainly not have a dilemma in this house at all whether such a law should be passed or not. This law is not a request from anyone in the world. In a country that has paid its resistance to fascism with a million and 700 thousand human heads, the law must be in the heart of every man who sits in this House and if you think that someone in the world is sitting and dictates to Serbia that laws will be passed, you are wrong. When this law is passed, I consult with old man Vujadin from Klepac, who, waiting in line for slaughter, when Peter Brzica, Ustasha's executioner, cried out – and now say: "Long live Pavelic, live the chief, answer peacefully – just do your job." That man obliges us, if no one else, to pass a law like this. I think in a country where both day and day and how they remember those days of suffering, there's no doubt whether the law is passed or not. By passing such a law, we do not claim that there are any organisations in Serbia that can mass-produce fascist ideas. On the contrary, we return to the bumper of those civilization values where Serbia has always stood. We stand side by side with all anti-fascist countries and movements, which this country belonged to, and we say loudly and clearly – in Serbia all civilization values are acceptable. Is the law well arranged or not? I mind the remarks Mr. Zeljko Tomic made. I feel like a Serbian nationalist, I love Serbia, I love the Serbian people, I love the Serbian state, and I don't think it's bad to be a nationalist. As a man who was born in Kruševec, I must love my city, my countrymen and cities in the environment. I think this is about, as the lawmakers have said, a rough technical error. Furthermore, when we talk about fascism, the question arises – do you even know what "fascism" means and how it came to be? The word 'fascism' drags its roots, it has on the Internet and in the encyclopedias, from the Latin word 'fascio', which means a beam beam that's got an axe in it. What does that actually mean? That means you're only strong when you're in collectiveity, and every rod, when it's alone, an axe can break. In our society, we can cultivate and value individual values. In our society we cherish the memory of our people's anti-fascist struggle. We don't have to justify ourselves today in front of anyone why we're passing this law. We are passing this law because we do not want some individuals marching around the New Sad, which is and how they died in the New Zealand raid, I do not want anyone to draw a cowardly cross and be natural to it, because the Serbian people, the citizens of Serbia, the citizens of Russia, the citizens of Poland, the Poles, the Jews, are very well aware of the price they have paid for fascist ideas, and they know very well the citizens of Germany, because they are also victims of fascist ideas. If evil is released and does not respond to its appearance and its appearance, then it takes a frightening situation. That is why the adoption of such a law is the necessity of civilizational fluids that have been accepted everywhere in the world, and Serbia, when it comes to resistance to fascism, has been on the defender of this harmful and dangerous phenomenon. I call on all MPs to, with certain amendments to this law, accept this law, because all the people sitting in this room accept and share anti-fascist beliefs and cannot believe that anyone in Serbia has a problem with passing a law sanctioning the drawing of a cowardly cross.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19509	Thank you. Mr. Tomic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19510	Finally, I was waiting for someone from the ruling coalition to address the MPs and citizens of Serbia, and right now Mr Milivojevic did what I had always suspected. He was talking, in fact, just about the first member of this law and don't change the thesis and just talk about the cowardly cross, fascism, neo-Naziism and whatnot. We are talking about the law, not the spirit of the law, about what it says here, and the debate was very clear and long by all representatives of MPs and MPs, in general, even by the SPS MPs who make up the ruling majority. We don't hear anything about it. As for the timelyness of Article 27, this law was passed on 10 October 2008. How many months has it been? It's been seven months, and you haven't found it appropriate for the Proposer to agree on the text, present it precisely, and to be corrected by the ruling majority in the manner in which she made her own remarks. Seven months we get half a product, half a law. That's what this is about. This is incorrigible for our concept, and this member is not just talking about Nazism, he's talking about a lot of other things. We've been discussing this and these are the basic reasons, and there's still a lot of them, which is why we can't vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19511	Thank you. National MP Zoran Ostojić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19512	Members of 103 and 104 - dignity. It's not much hurt, but it's practice. Indeed, such an important topic was better done, and I am glad that the ruling majority said it would fix it. We've really been waiting for this law. After all, this society has suffered so much from the extremism of various species that an anti-fascist tradition, which is, above all, civil and European, not communist or not, should have been given, due to the phenomena that have been happening lately, unfortunately in Serbia, and have ties to the 90s extremism, a basis in one of these laws. That is why I am very glad that the law will be improved and with these repairs, Serbia will undoubtedly get what it lacks. Because of everything we've been through, the LDP will be happy to support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19513	Thank you. National MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19514	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all I have to express my surprise that the bill was on the agenda, a surprise after the address of Mrs Nada Kolundji to this high house, which said that, practically, the largest parliamentary group would not vote in favour of this bill. It turns into a public debate. It is for this law and necessary, but not in this place, but before the coming of this proposal on the agenda, because it is right Tomislav Nikolic when he says that in this form, at this stage, this law can no longer be changed to amendments, something which, in a number of statements, is heard to be corrected, and that is necessary. I am pleased that the draft law of the parliamentary group is on the agenda and I am unhappy that the three proposals I have made, the law on restitution, the law on rehabilitation and the law on ministries, have not been found on the agenda. I think Serbia needs more at this point, not denying that one such law is needed. What surprises me is that a number of MPs in their debate denied the bill because it came from the LSV and Nenada Chanka MPs. It's not about the content of the law, it's about who's the legislator. That's not good. Some have gone one step further, dealing with conspiracy theory and that behind this proposal is who knows what kind of foreign agent, etc. That's even more pointless. Let's be honest, whoever supports associations and organizations that advocate Nazi and fascist ideology, he's also a fascist, or neo-fascist, or neo-Nazi. He who justifies the crime in Srebrenica, who is not ashamed of the images of the crime in Trnov, who next to the picture of Karadjordj and Milos Obilic puts a picture of the war crimes indictee in Srebrenica, of course he will not support this law. Let's ask ourselves, is there a phenomenon of neofascism, neonasism, racism, chauvinism, anti-Semitism in Serbia? There is. There are, fortunately, very few, but there are among the members of all national corpss, all ethnic groups, not only among Serbs. I repeat, fortunately, a little. Is this to be prevented and should such organizations and associations be banned? You should. Now I'm going back to law school. I think it contains a series of disadvantages, and Semantic, meaning, notional and legal, i.e., legal-technical. I can't put nationalism in the same plane with Nazism and fascism, or neonasism and neofascism. Enlightened nationalism is the dominant ideology of the most numerous Western European centre parties and these parties are in power in most Western European countries. It is one enlightened, European nationalism. Therefore, it cannot be put into the same plane with fascism and Nazism. That's one dimension. The second is that there is a clear contradiction to the proposal for criminal provisions of this law with the Law on Infringements and with Criminal Law. It's got to be arranged. When it is arranged or, as some MPs have said, repaired, when it is said that nationalism implies, except that it is not in the Law, one kryptonationalism, pseudonationalism, one vulgar nationalism that is very close to fascism, chauvinism, racism or Nazism, then we can discuss such a bill, and then I will also be ready to vote to ban associations and organisations that promote such ideology.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19515	I am convinced that it is clear to all of us that we are in a phase where, on the 23rd amendment to this law, neither the committee nor the proposing representatives have given their opinion, they have not spoken. That's one fact. The second fact is regarding Article 142, paragraph 5, which says that in the time between the completed principled search and the opening of the draft law in particular, competent committees can submit amendments to the draft law. Just to keep that information in mind. Thank you, Mr. Batic. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19516	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to have to continue my presentation, unfortunately, to begin with an unfavorable event that took place today in the Zemun field. According to information that arrived at the SRS Parliament Club, SNS activists attacked a group of SRS activists who today shared political material in the Zemun field against Joseph Biden, U.S. Vice President. The party probably didn't like the contents of our flyers. Given that today Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, SNS deputy president, made the following statement – I hope that our government will use the US Vice President's visit to benefit Serbia and its citizens, not for its own personal benefit, I expect to discuss the country's economic and economic recovery and economic recovery and KIM. Only after Beiden's visit will it be known whether Serbia and America will get closer. Without seeking to heat up political passions in the National Assembly and political passions among activists of any political party, I want to appeal to all actors of the political process in Serbia, ahead of the upcoming elections in Zemun and Vozdovac, to serve democratic and legal means. We Serbs during the 1990s, unfortunately, and these days a lot of ugly things happened to us. We've had sanctions, bombings, and attempted kidnapping of state territory. We have not yet had a civil war, and people like Joseph Biden would somehow be most happy about this civil war among Serbs. I therefore urge all political parties in Serbia to fight their political struggle within the borders of the Constitution and the law and to use political arguments, not arguments of force and arguments of the poets. I must refer to Mr Radovan Radovanovic's presentation. I have the impression that Mr. Nenad Canak, in a way, has sacrificed politically both Mr. Radovanovic and Mrs. Papug. He sent them to the National Assembly today to explain something completely pointless. It is clear to him, too, that the bill is bad from both political and legal point of view. That's why he didn't even show up at the National Assembly session, but that's why he sacrificed these two of his people's MPs, to try to explain for him something that, in fact, he can't explain and he doesn't have his own not politically, but legal and logical justification. If so, it can be seen from the fact that Mrs Olena Papuga has read, not raising her head, the reasoning of the Bill's proposal, and that she has understood, allegedly, that there are only press mistakes in the bill when she was warned by MPs from other MPs' clubs. What is truly amazing to me, it is, that Mr Radovanovic said there is no organised fascist movement in Serbia and there are no massive fascist organisations, and the bill is called – the law prohibiting the manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations, etc. So we forbid something that is not in Serbia. Then, again, in a desire to explain something that cannot be explained, he used a structure that is really funny, he said – a judicial verdict etc. This is obviously about trying to explain to both Serbian citizens and MPs something that is completely pointless. Of course, the bill has its own political background and I disagree with Mr Batic that anyone here advocates conspiracy theory. This is about an attempt to justify not only NATO aggression against the SRJ, not only NATO aggression against the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, but to justify a completely non-discipline policy, which is contrary to the basic principles of international and public law, as regards the policies of the United States, Germany, the European Union, that is, the European Community and NATO pact towards Serbia, the Serbian people and the broken state of the SFRY. All that has been happening to us over the past 15 or 20 years, all that has been happening to us by the Western forces, will have its justification if it is proved that the Serb people are fascists, that we are a genocidal people and that it was therefore necessary to bomb, firstly, Serbs in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, to bomb Serbia-Montenegro and to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija. And, in fact, it is the real purpose of this bill, to provide a political justification for NATO intervention in all Serbian countries and to wash the conscience, if they cannot already wash the hands of those who are guilty, directly or indirectly, for the death of tens of thousands, not only of Serbs, but also of other peoples in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. When NATO air strikes on Republika Srpska's military positions at Gorazda began in 1994, General Ratko Mladic gave a very accurate sentence, which is that the keys to war and peace are not in the Balkans, and that truth still stands today. The true masters of war and peace in the Balkans sit somewhere far from here and these true masters of war and peace need to wash their conscience for everything they have done wrong in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. This bill, among other things, serves. I would really like, on behalf of the SRS, on behalf of all Serbian citizens, to finally know who all these people are who, in political, military, scientific, cultural and any other possible way, serve the NATO Pact. To tell us the acts that these people have in this NATO political army, so that once we find out that Boris Tadic is NATO's General Lieutenant General, that Dragan Sutanovac is a NATO colonel, that Nenad Canak is NATO's major, that Bojan Pajtic is a NATO sergeant, that everything that is done in Serbia has only one purpose, and that is to justify NATO's policy towards Serbia, according to the Serbian people, from 1991 to today. As I understand it, for a bill like this, as it is written, it seems, no one will vote except for the MPs who signed this bill, and the question is whether they will vote, because their leader is not here today. He forced two of his MPs to try in a rather ignorant way to explain the meaning and need of the adoption of this bill. I said, when I spoke in those 20 minutes as an authorised representative of the SRS, there was neither fascism in Serbia now nor in Serbia has there ever been any man who exhibited fascist ideas. I think it's one big truth. Of course, you've always got all kinds of hot heads, but one whole nation can't be responsible and his country for several hot heads in his ranks. In Serbia you've never had an organized fascist movement, it's never been massive and it's never taken the kind of situation that it's, say, received in Germany, Italy, France, imagine, even in the UK. A German politician, who dealt with the political philosophy of fascism and national socialism, Ernst Nolte, in his famous book "Europe in the Age of Fascism", presented a whole series of data about the existence of fascist movements not only in Germany and Italy, which were the homelands of this world view, but also in France, Spain, Hungary, Norway, Finland, I said, even in Britain, where Sir Oswald Mosley organized the Union of British fascists in 1933, and otherwise he was a minister in a laborist government between the two world wars. Lawmakers are wrong if they think that fascism and national socialism are solely related to the area of Southeast Europe. He was absolutely right, Thomas Mann, when he said that fascism was a disease that felt like home everywhere. Some other countries need to be far more ashamed than Serbia and the Serbian people for the creation of fascist ideology and for all the evil that came from that ideology. After World War II, the regime of Joseph Broz, of course, tried to withdraw in everything a sign of equality between Serbs and Croats, both for better or for worse. All Serbian citizens, unfortunately, know well, and especially our people who remained to live in Krajina and Republika Srpska, what horrors happened to him during the Second World War of Pavelic's Ustasha regime. Joseph Broz had a task, and this task today has Nenad Canak, to fully equalize everything that was happening in so - called. NDH with what happened in occupied and divided Serbia. So there were Ustashas, witnesses of fascists, who killed hundreds of thousands of Serbs, and here in Serbia they were supposed to find people who were supposed to be their ideological and political pandan. There is a Croatian scientist, theorist, doctor of legal science and philosophy, who hit the foundations of Croatian nationalism to a large extent, Ante Starcevic. Today, many streets in Croatia are called by his name, are adopted by Croatian right-wing and Croatian left-wings, and he is one size that no one in Croatia questions. I will now read to you from a book about what is, among other things, this Ante Starcevic, who has gained the political right of citizenship in Croatia today, told the Serbs: "They are muddy bastards, disgusting slave creatures, such as ripe for axes, non-mixed ships, dogs Austrian, dogs deserts on sveriges," etc. In NDH was brought a whole series of laws that were exactly the same as those in the Third Reich. For example, a legal provision on the protection of Aryan blood and the honor of the Croatian people has been passed. That law has more members, and I won't read it all. This is what is said in Article 1 — the marriage of Jews and their non-Arian people to persons of Aryan origin is prohibited, and it is also prohibited to marry a person who, in addition to Aryan ancestors, has a second generation by race of Jews or another European nearian to a person of equal origin. There were more laws like that. There were laws prohibiting the use of Cyrillic, a law on raciality was passed, Jews had to wear yellow ribbons, and Serbs had blue ribbons, with the inscription P, meaning Orthodox. Now Joseph Broz had to find some pandan in Serbia, which would somehow wash the conscience of the Croats, as Nenad Canak is today trying to wash NATO's conscience. Josip Broz and his historians claim that the pandan of Anti Pavelic and NDH was Milan Nedic, president of the Serbian National Rescue Government. In October of last year, the interior minister and the first vice-president of the Republic government, Deputy Prime Minister, etc., requested that photographs of Milan Nedic be removed from the Serbian government's building, according to Queenslin Prime Minister from 1941 to, imagine, 1945. On the side that the government was not in 1945, it ceased to exist in the autumn of 1944, when the part of Serbia was taken over by Tito's partisans. It is interesting to continue today a campaign against the man whose photo was removed from the Serbian government building. I'll read you what Milan Nedic's government says about a man who was, we could say freely, a regime historian and who, according to his government, did not have any special sympathy. Here, about what Mr Branko Petrovic said: "At the time of accepting this ungrateful duty, Nedic was familiar with the possibility that Serbia could be divided between the Balkan allies of the Third Reich. He was warned that Hungarian, Bulgarian and Ustasha forces could be used to liquidate the unrest. Nedic also faces a German decision that they themselves are ruthlessly approaching retribution against the entire Serbian people. Nedic accepted this duty, although he pointed out that he was aware of the country's indetermination and the fact that the army is in slavery and that the "red" threatens to prevail." Under these difficult conditions, Milan Nedic had the courage to defend that political substance of Serbia and the Serb people who were at risk. Here's what's further said Branko Petrovic: "Before accepting the post of Prime Minister, Nedic has set conditions for Turner and Dunkelman to gain full autonomy, that the government has the armed power, to establish Serbian givings to the Germans and stop killing Serbs outside Serbia's borders. It was argued that 17 cuts were allocated from the independent state of Croatia and added to Serbia, which is 16 cuts from eastern Bosnia, consisting of the Drinska Banovina, and one cut from the Zetska Banovina. He also asked for improvements in Serbia's economic and administrative borders to be improved, with the possession of these territories by German troops. He stood up for the help of prisoners of war in Germany. "'' Milan Nedic, as president of the Serbian National Rescue Government, which was educated on 29 August 1941, saved tens of thousands of Serbs who fled the Ustasha knife from the Independent State of Croatia. Among other things, he saved 86,000 Serbian children and a whole complex was built near Kruševec that was intended to accommodate those children. What is very interesting, Nedic's government and Nedic's Commissioner for Refugees, led by engineer Toma Maksimovic, received in occupied Serbia and more than 10,000 Slovenians, and none of these Slovenians did anything ugly in Serbia. Even Slovenian writer Ivan Vidmar, who was in Serbia as a child, said that his family did not lack hair from the head, that they lived better than the Serbs lived, because the Serbs tried to give these Slovenians maximum hospitality, although, he said, they were displaced in a purely Chetnik region. It is obvious that these artificial parallels, which retreat between Croatian authentic fascism and Serbian politicians who, under difficult historical circumstances, were seen to preserve the biological substance of the Serb people, cannot be withdrawn. There's a man whose historical role is quite controversial and about him historians point out different courts. It is a man who makes every Serb's ears boil when it comes to proving that the Serb people had people in their ranks who were prone to fascist ideas. That man's name was Dimitri Ljotic. In our history textbooks after World War II, he was always judged fascist, as a man who ultimately advocated Hitler's and Mussolini's ideas. Only recently have historians come forward trying to prove that the matter is not so simple and that the period of Serbian history cannot be seen in black and white light. I came up with an article that was written with his hand by Dimitri Ljotic in the list "Ottojbin", in 1936, three years after Hitler took power in Germany. This article is called "Neither Fascism nor National Socialism". In this article, Dmitry Ljotic, from ideological, philosophical, Christian viewpoints, falls into both German national socialism and Italian fascism. He claimed that in the root of German fascism, i.e. national socialism, there was the idea of worshiping a nation or race, and in the root of Italian fascism – the idea of worshiping a state. He felt that he who was a Christian could not worship a nation, race, or state, but could worship only the only God. His approach to fascism and national socialism had a lot of that Orthodox Christian mysticism. One author, who himself was a Mason, who wrote "The History of Masons in Yugoslavia, i.e. Yugoslav Countries", pointed out in his book that this same Dmitry Ljotic, whom historians rated as fascist, sent a memo to the German commander of Serbia in 1942, asking to stop the arrests of Masons, who did not endanger public order and peace in Serbia and who did not in any way endanger the security of German occupation troops. What is also very important to say, although Serbia was occupied by Germans in World War II, Milan Nedic eventually refused to send Serb soldiers to the Eastern Front. On the Eastern Front, all of Hitler's satellite states had their formations, including the Independent State of Croatia, since on the front of Stalingrad, in German uniforms, but with Croatian symbols – chess, they fought so-called. 369th Infantry Regiment. Even Croatians printed a series of postage stamps during World War II, on which the character of Croatian legionaries was drawn and on which it was written "Croatian legions under Stalingrad". Nedic, although he was an ideological opponent of the Bolshevism and Stalin regime, refused to send any Serb soldier to the Eastern Front. Today, you, gentlemen of the Democrats, who are allegedly calling for anti-fascist traditions, are sending Serb soldiers to Georgia, practically, to the yard of "great Russia", to help NATO put our only great friendly state in one strategic ring and to lock it up, so Russia cannot return to its old politics, which is to return to the Balkans and to the warm seas. Otherwise, as far as this fascism in Serbia is concerned, the following information is also controversial. Canadian journalist, publicist and historian David Martin published several books on events in Yugoslavia during World War II. He particularly addressed the issue of Draža Mihajlovic. As early as 1946, he published the book "The Published Ally", and then more books, among other things, and the book "The Network of Disinformation, Churchill's Yugoslav Error". On the side of the 23rd Serbian translation of the book, David Martin says, explaining all the movements that existed in Serbia during World War II: "There was a conflict in Serbia between General Mihajlovic's forces and the co-borationist Chetnic forces of Kosta Pecanc, as well as followers of Serbian fascist Dimitri Ljotic and, from time to time, the power of General Milan Nedic, Serbian Peten." In the notes below, Veselin Đuretic, one of our most modern historians, a man who has dealt in detail with political and military events in World War II, says: "It cannot be claimed that it is a fascist group, because such an ideological relationship of the Assembly has been determined until the war, when the relationship to the Mussolini model of socio-economic organisation, it is more appropriate to call them forces, which, due to their fierce anti-stalinism, has been clearly expressed in the 30s, in the war, accepted co-operation with an occupation based on attitudes towards communism, as a concrete extremism". In connection with Martin's observation that Milan Nedic is Serbian Peten, Veselin Đuretic says this: "The Nedic is, in his general position, Serbian Peten, but it is necessary to point out that because of the specific Hitler's anti-Serbian policy – for one, 100, this position was more justified and moral than Petenov's, it was conditioned by difficult circumstances and, in the extreme instance, was eminently patriotic'. From just these few quotes, from these few remarks, as you can see, authors who are not at all inclined to glorify any Serbian heroism can be estimated to have never been organized and mass fascist movement in Serbia. I repeat, the hotheads were also in World War II, as there are now, but those few dozen, or hundreds of hotheads, cannot shed light on one fact that no one can question, which is that the Serbian people are also in World War II, and before World War II, and today, at the beginning of the 21st century, in their vast majority of anti-fascist people, there was never a more massive organization in Serbia that would exhibit any ideas that you could identify with Italian fascism or German national socialism. Tomorrow you will receive an official visit from US Vice President Joseph Biden, a man who has made a number of racist statements about Serbs. Those statements were quoted by my colleague Dejan Mirovic, by other MPs. I'm not going to say that again, they're well-known to everyone, but there's one other thing that's very interesting and that throws at Joseph Biden one light from which it can be clearly seen that it's a man who shows racist beliefs not only towards Serbs, but, imagine, and to a man whose vice president he is now, and that's Barack Obama. In 2007, Joseph Biden gave the press "Politics" the following statement: "Obama, remember this well, the first African-American who speaks clearly, who is clear, who does not represent extreme views and who is suitable for showing." So for Joseph Biden, all African Americans, except for his president Barack Obama, were the opposite of this, were not clear, had extreme views and were not suitable for public screening, and God forbid they were fit to be candidates for the President of the United States. You'll welcome Joseph Beyden in great style tomorrow. Tomorrow Belgrade will be a city under siege. Likely, the bird will not be able to fly over Belgrade, that this great democracy, Joseph Biden, who loves both the Serbian people and the African-Americans, and Barack Obama, will not be able to do anything ugly in Serbia, so that no one looks at him and no one asks him – what did the Serbs do so badly to him, to his family, to the Americans, or to any other people in the world, so that the Serbian people deserved Joseph Biden to honor them with such racist epithets? I see you've even set up a red carpet at the entrance to the House of People's Assembly, you'll probably welcome him with a red carpet, but then have the courage to ask him yourself, since we're unable to ask him, what did the Serbian people do to the United States? Did he blame them for saving hundreds of US airmen who were shot down above Serbia, above Montenegro, above BiH, in Krajina, etc. during World War II.? More than 500 American airmen were saved only in 1944, in that large operation "Air Bridge", organised by Draža Mihajlovic, when he sent hundreds of American airmen from the impromptu airport in the village of Prajana to Cačka, who, on the other hand, stood up when they fell on the territory of the Independent State of Croatia, cut their ears, fingers and such disabled persons to the Germans in front of the firing machines. Today, Croatia, unfortunately, is a respected European country. She was admitted to NATO a few days ago. The NATO Pact, reportedly the heritage of the anti-fascist tradition, boasts that its founders are great American generals, who have defeated the axle troops, but then it is simply amazing that in their society they are receiving a state that has never until the end and has never definitely given up the fascist past and which, unfortunately, there is a history of heritage and today. As I come from Vojvodina, almost all the citizens of Vojvodina who are watching television via cable distributors were able to monitor the transmission of one event from Blyburg, which was organised for the shooting and, they say, the massacre that took place over the people of Pavelic's armed forces in the spring of 1945 in Slovenia. All Serbian citizens living in the territory of Srema, in the territory of Backa, could see an amazing picture. The official Croatian television, on its second channel, on Sunday presented a manifestation from Blyburg and what remains as one amazing picture are two bound flags, the official flag of the Republic of Croatia with a chess and a red flag with a big letter U. The event was blessed by Zagreb archbishop Josip Bozanic. Support telegrams were provided by officials from the Croatian authorities, those you shake hands with, who you want to force God to establish good neighbourly relations, even though they hate you, even though they hate the whole Serbian people. These are the ones who teach Serbs today how to treat Albanians in KIM and what all of us Serbs still have to do to meet these European standards that Croatia has met, although it has expelled hundreds of thousands of Serbs from its territory, even though several days ago they stoned Serbian buses that brought these unfortunate Serbs to vote in Croatia for candidates of the Croatian Democratic Union, and something happened which is politically extremely unlikely, which is that the exiled Serbs voted for candidates of the party that also expelled them from Croatia from 1991 to 1995. Now let's say something about the bill itself. The bill is, I said that in that debate within 20 minutes, bad from a political point of view, from a logical point of view, from the aspect of normative technique. First of all, this bill has an extremely long name. I doubt the billmaker himself can repeat what the bill is called without looking at the paper first. So, the bill is called this way – the bill banning manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and banning the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and features. When you look at the name of the law, you can get the impression that the promoter wanted to suppress two phenomena that are very similar, or two views of the world. It's neonasism and fascism. But when you look at the normative part of the bill, then you see that it is not. Article 1 says this - neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations. Article 2 says - neo-Nazi and fascist organisations and associations. In Article 3, there is already a deviation from this termology – nationalist and fascist ideas. So, not more neo-Nazi, but nationalist. I can't accept that this is a printing error. A press mistake can be a mistake in one letter, but there's a big difference between neonasism and when it's pronounced and when it's written, and nationalism. So it is obvious that the promoters wanted this law, or bill, to be adopted by God, to have far greater reach than neofascism, or neonasism. In Article 5, it is said again – neo-Nazi and fascist organisations, and in Article 6, Mr Radovanovic, look well, I doubt that the printing error is mentioned like this – fascist organisations, so imagine, neo-nationalist organisations, or they are no longer nationalist, but they are neo-nationalistic. I really don't know what that means. It is said again – fascist, twice fascist, and amazing, or national socialist ideas and actions. So this is the law, or bill that wants to suppress, if I understand correctly, neonasism, fascism, nationalism, neonationalism and national socialism. So, you want this bill to curb five ideas, five ideologies, five world views, which you think are retrograde, harmful and which slow Serbia's entry into the EU. As the people who have proposed this law, you had to, first of all, explain it to us, because I really don't understand what it is about neonationalism, which is the difference between neonacism and national socialism, so let's just then discuss all the other fines that are contained in this bill. You, gentlemen of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, and even you from that European democratic bloc, no matter how ridiculous that sounds, must understand one thing. Do not go into congregation debates of one wrong premise – that you know everything about what the bill is about without the MPs of the SRS knowing anything. Members of the SRS on phenomena such as nationalism, fascism, Nazism, etc. They know a lot more than you do. I told you that Dr Vojislav Seselj doctored on this very subject, therefore, on the political essence of militarism and fascism. To write a doctoral dissertation with that name, Dr Vojislav Seselj read far more books than you all read together from the Social Democratic League of the League. You had to keep an eye on, when you use these terms, that what you're saying and putting someone on paper in detail to listen and read and try to find a difference in each article, in every position of this bill. However, a man doesn't have to be some great legal expert, he doesn't have to be some great fan of fascism and Nazism, so he can see that you wrote this bill in haste, that you didn't engage in much of the technique of writing the bill, and that the essence of the phenomenon that you allegedly want to contain is absolutely unknown. Indeed scandalous in this bill is the famous Article 4. Here, I will read it for the citizens of Serbia, to hear people who say they are European traditions and European values think that they are establishing European values in Serbia. It is said: "Produced production, multiplication, storage, presentation, expansion or any other way of using symbols to propagate or justify ideas, actions and actions of persons indicted or convicted before the International Criminal Tribunal or persons convicted or convicted before domestic courts of war crimes". First of all, it would be your turn to place the real name of this quasi-judicial institution in the bill of law. What you call the International Criminal Tribunal, in its full name and name, is called - the International Tribunal for Criminal Warrants responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law in the premises of the former SFRY since 1991. The International Criminal Tribunal, set up by the Roman Statute, has little to do with the ad hoc tribunal in The Hague. The International Tribunal in The Hague, which you probably think of as the hateful UN tribunal, is a mockery of world law, world justice and world democracy. It is simply amazing that after everything that has happened to Serbs in The Hague, you continue to see in the institution a court that should help Serbia get closer to the EU. In time, the SRS organised a number of scientific meetings dedicated, primarily, to the position of Dr Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal, but also to all others in the Seveningen detention unit, which is being tried or convicted by the UN tribunal. These scientific gatherings were attended not only by Serbians, but by numerous world experts in the field of law, in the area of history, philosophy, sociology. If you had read only part of the statement from these scientific meetings, you could have made sure that the International Tribunal in The Hague, The Hague tribunal, was the last institution to be mentioned in the proposals for laws to be passed in Serbia. It is simply amazing to me that you of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina have not heard of one legal property that has existed for hundreds of years, and that is – that no one can be found guilty until it is proved by a judicial verdict. It's amazing that you're putting the defendants and the convicts in the same basket. Whoever's accused is innocent. He becomes guilty of the moment when it is proved by a judicial verdict. Of course, if this bill is passed, you, or you would surely intend to hit the members and sympathisers of the SRS with this law, first of all. You did not explicitly write it in the bill, but it is enough to look at this bill in flight, so understand that you, in fact, want to sanction all those people in Serbia who wear badges or T-shirts with a figure, first of all, the president of the SRS Dr Vojislav Seselj. You think whoever wears a shirt or a badge with a Vojislav Seselj character must automatically belong to the SRS. That's not true. By wearing a badge and a T-shirt with the image of Vojislav Seselj, we express our human and political solidarity with the man who voluntarily went to The Hague, not to defend himself, but to defend Serbia and the Serb people from one terrible accusation – that we Serbs are to blame for all those crimes that took place in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. The Hague tribunal has the same meaning Mr. Radovanovic, as well as this bill of yours. [[Applause]] You want to wash the conscience of NATO, the US and the EU with this bill, and so does the UN tribunal, telling Serbs the sentences of prisons measured for hundreds of years. The Hague tribunal, in fact, is trying to justify a bad, illegal, criminal policy that has been headed towards Serbia and the Serb people since 1991. I will now read to you, Mr Radovanovic, one of the defeated statistics, which tells you about what the UN tribunal is like, how guilt and responsibility are being measured there for the works done in the wars that were fought in the former Yugoslavia's premises. Not counting on the final verdict, the terrible and unfair verdict of Veselin Sljivancanin, a revised verdict, has so far been indicted in The Hague tribunal for 904 years in prison, Croats to 171, Muslims to only 39 years in prison, and Shiptari to 19 years in prison. If this statistic seems fair to you, if you get the impression from this data that The Hague tribunal is an institution of law and justice in which no one is seen who, then you, Mr Radovanovic, and all of you who signed this bill and who are going to vote for this or do not know anything about politics, or are very naive. You can see from this data that, say, Muslims are sentenced to only 39 years in prison. A few days ago, on TV "Bijeljina", Bakir Izetbegovic, the son of the late Ali Izetbegovic, who withdrew justice because he was beat to death, said one amazing thing. He is now a candidate for the president of the Party of Democratic Action. At the time, Vuk Draskovic, 1990, told Ali Izetbegovic that he was a man of cotton. Here's what the son of a man who has a cotton soul says: "We Bosniaks committed only 7% of the crimes during the civil war in BiH. All other crimes have been committed by you Serbs." It is perfectly logical then that such penalties as they are pronounced in The Hague tribunal. I don't know if you know, Mr. Radovanovic, there were more than a hundred official, military and police prisons for Serbs in Sarajevo from 1992 to 1995. More than 10,000 Sarajevo Serbs were killed in these three years, and several hundred were killed by their heads being cut off by machetes on Sarajevo's mountains held by the Bosnia and Herzegovina army. I'm sure you watched those terrible footage of mujahideen sharpening axes and knives killing them Serbs. Joseph Biden, whom you will meet tomorrow, not only did he know what was going on in BIH, not only did he help the financial, political, media war of mujahedin against Serbs, but he encouraged them to do it as much as possible. You'll welcome such a man tomorrow. So, on the one hand, you will punish people who are solidaritying with Serbian citizens who are being tried in The Hague tribunal, and on the other hand, on the red carpet you will welcome a man whose hands are dirty with Serbian blood. Since the bill is passed to combat one political party and its leader, the Serbian Radical Party, I am obliged to tell you, Mr Radovanovic, that Vojislav Seselj has been in The Hague since 2003. You didn't have to arrest him, put out warrants for him, blackmail his head, as you today blackmail the heads of Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic. The indictment against Vojislav Seselj was filed in January 2003. As soon as he got the indictment, he had already travelled on February 24th, as he said, on a slightly longer official trip. Only in November 2007 did the case against Vojislav Seselj begin. All international conventions guaranteeing human rights and freedoms, including the UN Charter, the international act on civil and political rights, the universal declaration of human rights, guarantee the right of every man to the globe of the earth, regardless of his nation and religion, regardless of his race, political conviction, property, to be tried within a reasonable period. If it seems reasonable for you to close a man in February 2003 and start his trial in November 2007, then you, I'm sorry, about the concept of a reasonable deadline, too, don't know anything. To make matters even worse, this same Vojislav Seselj was suspended early this year, the main procedure being conducted on the 2003 indictment, and a new procedure was launched, the procedure for so-called. Disrespect of the court. This criminal offence is not prescribed by the UN tribunal's Statute, but by the Rules of Procedure and Evidence. Would you, Mr. Radovanovic, vote, say, to renew the Code of Criminal Procedure in which, besides procedural norms, crimes are found? The Hague tribunal has completely mixed up material and procedural criminal law. You are referring to such an institution in this bill as an institution that is reportedly the condition of all conditions for Serbia's EU accession. For three hours, the UN tribunal's prosecution has remained to prove its guilt against Vojislav Seselj. Then when they failed to prove any point, no letter of the indictment, because the indictment was written politically, here in Belgrade, legally very sloppyly, they realized that Vojislav Seselj was accused of so-called. Disrespect of the court. To make things worse, it's not just Vojislav Seselj being tried there, it's his book. In the 1930s, the Nazis burned the works of Spinoza, Remark, all those philosophers and writers who did not fit into their world view, in their theory that some nations and races were better than others. This theory today represents Joseph Biden, whom you receive on the red carpet tomorrow. So, in The Hague, not only is Serbia's citizen Vojislav Seselj being tried there by his book, a book that has, essentially, an anti-fascist term: "Afera Hrtkovci and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandic". Vojislav Seselj wrote a piece in his time called "The Fire Book". It was in the 1980s, at a time when he fought against Hamdia Pozderc, Branko Mikulic and those despots in Sarajevo and Belgrade who felt that communism was the best human mind could come up with. At the time, he probably couldn't have dreamed of a new fire book coming up in 2009. This time, it is the book "Afera Hrtkovci and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandić". In all countries of the world, whether they are democratic, fascist or communist, whoever is accused has the right to serve every means to prove his innocence, have the right to lie, have the right to remain silent, have the right to deceive the court, have the right to serve everyone and everything, to avoid punishment. The Hague tribunal is the only court in which you can answer because you defend yourself and, not even because you defend yourself, but because in one book you published your own submission to that same tribunal, which has neither been declared secret nor confidential nor anything like that. So, Mr. Radovanovic, there's a matter with your international criminal tribunal. So anyone wearing a T-shirt, a badge, a hat or some other part of a wardrobe with a character or the name of a person not only convicted, but also accused in front of the UN tribunal. As for us from the SRS, you can pass this bill, but you will have to take the badge with the figure of Vojislav Seselj on your own. For free of these fines, these threats of yours, free of you and Joseph Biden andNATOmbombarders, Vojislav Seselj from our lapels and our hearts, you alone, with your own hands, will be able to take them off. Look, Mr. Radovanovic, I'm talking to you on purpose because you're a man, because there's no point in calling your colleague. You, in this bill of law, in public appearances, through various of your so-called so-called. democratic and non-governmental organizations, you spread the story of Serbia threatening the dangers of fascism, of Nazism, that these are very dangerous phenomena, and they are, but then it's just amazing that you are curbing those phenomena with criminal sanctions. It was also amazing to me when we discussed the draft law on the ban on discrimination. You, people, genocide, apartheid and other severe forms of discrimination have been sanctioned by criminal penalties. You're doing the same thing in this bill. So, I can freely express national socialist ideas, fascist ideas, or, as you misread, Nazi, nationalist, neonationalistic, etc., and the only terrible thing that can happen to me if you vote this is to be punished. If you are truly fighting Fascism, against Nazism, then you are fighting instruments of criminal law, criminal sanctions, and severe criminal sanctions. It's funny to give criminal sanctions for displaying fascist or neo-Nazi ideas. It just doesn't go with each other. For me, for example, as a lawyer, I find this article of yours interesting. The draft law - if the prohibition provided for in Article 2 of this Act executes a natural person as a member of a registered organisation or association, a fine of 100,000 dinars to millions of dinars will be punishable for the violation of that organisation, i.e. the association. You are called the bill of law on the prohibition of events and, among other things, the organisation and association. So you, on the one hand, are going to ban something, and then you're going to do something that's forbidden to sanction. That's how you give him legitimacy. If you sanction something that you previously banned by criminal punishment, you give the organization legitimacy. You recognize her as a legal social and political organization, except you're criminally sanctioning her from certain laws. Mr. Radovanovic, I don't think your party boss appreciates you very much; if he appreciated you, he would come here personally to defend this nonsense that has been placed into equal ten members of the bill. Instead, he sent you and your colleague to blush and try to defend something that is indefensible. I really don't understand how the ruling coalition will behave when the day of the vote comes. You may vote this law, you may not vote it, but this bill will not eradicate neonasism or fascism. In these last few minutes as long as I have left, I want to break up a truth that's spreading across Serbia, and I think that you're doing it deliberately, and that I'm right when I say that Goran Davidovic is a product of NATO pact and that someone is deliberately producing people in Serbia who are going to put on their websites, on their flags hooking crosses. No normal, no normal Serb would do that. That's against that so-called "national machine," in fact, you're giving the organization political legitimacy. It's not a real political organization, it's a web site, it's an Internet presentation, and that's how they say themselves, those virtual members of the National Machine. On their site, they published the statutes of their calling organization. Each serious organisation has a statute that has over 100 members and is then detailedly edited by the organisation. The National Machine Statute has only 18 members. See what Article 6 – “National Machine” has no leader, no leadership, and each type of activity is carried out through its own will, on personal responsibility, in accordance with the programme and statutes, as well as the principles for which we stand. Article 10 - "National Machine" does not have its official room or postal address, contacts are established personally, as recommended or e-mailed. Article 12 - "National Machine" does not have official membership, because we believe in a strain not in numbers, in activists, not members. An activist may be the one who in any way contributes to achieving the objectives of the 'National Machine'. So the National Machine is no political organization, especially a mass political organization. I really don't understand why Nenad Canak has a constant need to talk about this few hotheads that were sufficiently, mildly said, immature and irresponsible to put a hooky cross on a Serbian white eagle. As far as patriotic NGOs are concerned, against whom a hack is being led these days and by LSV, and by various gay associations, etc., I can say the following. We don't think the Face, the Two Serbian, the Nomocanon, are fascist organizations. We believe that these are essential patriotic organisations, organisations that advocate the national, spiritual and cultural renaissance of the Serbian people and the Serbian state and that there is nothing fascist about their programmes, on the contrary, members of these organisations are rising precisely by the Serb anti-fascist tradition, and that of the true Serbian anti-fascist tradition, whose symbol is General Draža Mihajlovic. Let's close this discussion today. So, ladies and gentlemen of the people, dear citizens of Serbia, you are afraid that the Serbs are fascist people, that there are fascist organisations in Serbia. The Serbian people are deeply anti-fascist in their vast majority. His history, his faith, his tradition and, unfortunately, his sad fate in World War II, and even today, at the beginning of the 21st century, above all, at KIM, as well as the death of Serbs in The Hague tribunal, have nothing to do with fascism. If today in Europe, this NATO-based Europe, there is one people who is anti-fascist, then it is the Serbian people and Serbia is the last country in Europe to vote on such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19517	Thank you. I would just like to inform the public that the red carpet has been set today, due to the arrival of Montenegrin President Filip Vujanovic, which is a protocol obligation. I've received Mr Filip Vujanovic, president of Montenegro. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19518	I don't know why the fellow MP has devoted the beginning of his presentation to the SNS, and as a member of the politics of Dragan Todorovic and Vjerica Radete, he had to first make a lie to mention the SNS. Yes, indeed, the SNS is meeting today in the Zemun field. He's got more than a thousand people, lots of kids. There are a lot more people out there than you're gonna have votes in Zemun, but your group, led by the SRS board, attacked the checkpoint and threw bricks at people at the checkpoint. That's what the police have made a record of, Mr. Martinovic, and the police chief is one of your candidate's cousins. I don't have that influence, I can't lie, I can't influence it. Just so you know what the truth is and how your dear colleagues deceive you to tell the truth. I'm really surprised that Vojislav Seselj is so much in your heart. I have Serbia in my heart. I know him better than you, he came out of my heart when he said that KIM was lost. So when you think about who should be in your heart, let it always be Serbia, not the man who put himself above Serbia. You have more time ahead of you. When you talk about someone beating radicals, remember that radicals in the Assembly attack people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19519	Mr. Radovanović Radovan, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19520	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to thank Mr. Martinovic for a very constructive approach to the presentation of this bill of ours. I hold in my left hand his amendment, which is very meaningful and that we were seriously considering adopting. I'm surprised he did a couple of times while he was talking I was jumping into my stomach. He claimed several times that there was no need in our country to regulate this, because there are no such phenomena, and then he added that he had hot heads every time. I invite him and his MP group and all the MPs, just for the sake of those hot heads that exist, that they never exist again, that they did what he said, all pointed out that they were, that they had no opportunity to do it. That's why this bill is in front of us today, and that's why he's instigating this kind of attention. As far as the Hague tribunal is concerned, I didn't start it. You have no reason to defend your representative. As a large majority of citizens, and I will wait for the verdict that this court needs to make, and I will finally comment. While a man is in trouble, there's no need, and I've never done it, to say anything about it. Thank you for this constructive approach, and this really wasn't at my address and it has nothing to do with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19521	Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19522	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is really interesting that Mr Tomislav Nikolic did not comment in any word on Alexander Vukic's statement that Joseph Biden's visit would contribute to the well-being of Serbia and its citizens. If Joseph Biden had come to Serbia a year and a half before the Progressive Party was created, I believe that Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic would have been the most fierce critics of Joseph Biden. As for the question of what is in who's heart, Serbia was at the heart of Mr Tomislav Nikolic. At the time, some people, as Serb volunteers, went to war in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, some died there, some were disabled, some children lost their parents, among other things, listening to Tomislav Nikolic's stories about the need to create a single Serbian state. As far as I'm concerned, I can't trust a man who's been claiming for 15 years that Knin, Okucani, Banja Luka and the White Manastir are Serbian and that they should be in the Serbian state, and then one morning he wakes up and says it's not real. Those who claim that this is not realistic cannot believe that they will not say tomorrow – well, you know, dear Serbian citizens, it is not realistic that Kosovo Mitrovica, Pristina, Prizren are in Serbia. That's far. It's just a dream. You know, they're far away from kickinda, Saturday, Sombor. It is realistic for Belgrade to be in Serbia, possibly in Serbia, Sabac, Valjevo, Pogorjevac and my Kragujevac, everything else is unrealistic, everything else is utopia. So I can't trust Mr Tomislav Nikolic. I used to trust him. He made me no longer trust him. If Mr Tomislav Nikolic told me it was Tuesday, I'd have to look into the calendar and see if that's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19523	Once again, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19524	First of all, you shouldn't have given Mr. Martinovic the word. He had no right to receive word on any basis under the Rules of Procedure, but, well, if you've made such a careful decision, so be it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19525	The discretionary right to the replica defines the chairman, and you said Mr. Martinovic is not telling the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19526	He caused the replica, my dear lady. (President: Please proceed. It is not difficult to read the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Komic can give you some advice. So you listened to some who called to go to Krajina, including Vojislav Seselj. I went to Krajina, Mr. Martinovic, perhaps to your place of origin. I have been accused of committing war crimes by people who do not wish well for those who would sacrifice themselves to make Serbia better. You know very well that you were wrong and that the fear of losing your mandate was great. You better lose him six months ago than you'll lose him in a month, so you'll never win him again. People in life stand at a crossroads and decide whether they want to go left or right. I respect you all. You just made a bad choice when you had to choose and when you could choose. You can't choose now. Now you have a commanding officer. As he ordered you to jump and break benches, you broke benches. When he ordered you to remain silent, now shut up. Now you're nice. You think that's how voices are won, that you look like the Progressives? You're going to need a lot more work, but I'm glad that the assembly has been honored and that you've become nice, like well-sniffed and bathed kittens. Now you listen well to the president. Nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19527	The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19528	Thank you. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that the law prohibiting the manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organizations and associations and banning the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and markings today on the agenda, which is an opportunity to return to the agenda. Why do I think it is important that this law is on the agenda, despite its shortcomings and shortcomings that my previous, respected fellow Members of Parliament have pointed out, and we have also heard from the motions that this text of the proposed law be corrected in some way through the amendments and opinions of the Committee? I will point to another dimension of the importance of this bill. In my opinion, it is important because of one very important segment, and as far as we are all witnessing in recent years, Serbia seems to be ashamed of being on the side of the second world war winner, who was led against fascism and Nazism. Why do I say that? The day of victory over fascism, May 9th, this significant date, the state of Serbia, the state media, prominent daily papers and magazines, has been somewhat shyly marked. It's more of a day of Europe than a day of victory over fascism. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who knows math and a little bit of history knows that 9 May 1945 came before May 9th or 1960s. Therefore, May 9th is, above all, the day of victory over fascism. To make things worse, we are attending not only attempts to rehabilitate occupiers, but even those who served fascism are declaring themselves, you can imagine, victims. There, I remind, above all, because of the citizens of Serbia, where there has been a radical breakup with a fascist period of their own history, the chances for the restoration of fascist forms are less, but where there is no such breakup and condemnation, or it is not clearly done, there are various attempts, if not to justify fascism and its phenomena, that at least relativization of it. With us in Serbia, it seems enough that someone has suffered from the communists, his status as a victim is automatically recognised, although he has been testified, or a proven participant. Fascist associates are declared anti-fascists. Such an ambience has contributed greatly to what today is the theme of the agenda of the National Assembly, which is the phenomena of fascist, neo-fascist, neo-Nazi graphite, symbols, inscriptions, group ideas, some functions, and websites. It is a mistake, I think, that I will take myself as a right, some MPs, who in the afternoon afternoon afternoon's debate said that, if we talk about the subject from the point of view that there are no such phenomena in Serbia, that there is no such thing. Unfortunately, by running and hiding under the rug of something that happens in a smaller form, we will not solve the problem, nor will we convince the citizens or the world that such a thing does not exist in Serbia. It is no shame to say that these phenomena and forms exist in Serbia, as they exist in other modern democratic countries. That's why, I think, one of these laws is necessary. Simply, the question is how can we prevent further strengthening of such retrograde ideas? The bill we're discussing today, in itself, is not enough. I think we all know that, and we'll all agree to that. We need to regulate more precisely than we have so far sanctioned the pro-fascist and nastistic activities in our midst, which Professor Zarko Korać spoke of quite well. We all know what organizations these are, what phenomenal forms in our society are such and these activities. This is particularly important, because such activities are contrary and something that we all most often swear to, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because such activities, by such organisations, cause and promote inequality, hatred, intolerance in racial, religious, national and full membership, because these activities are directed towards different properties and the definition of citizens. For us, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it will be worth nothing to us to pass such or similar laws if, at the same time, in all segments of our society, we do not create an appropriate political climate, which every expression of neonasism and profasism will experience as something that is inappropriate and inappropriate in our midst, if, in all the institutions of our society, in all the institutions of the Serbian state, we do not fully develop awareness of the dangers and monsters of fascism and Nazism and their appearances. Therefore, more than ever, we must not only adequately sanction, but, moreover, submit all these phenomenal forms to the relevant social assessments, regardless of whether they are organized manifestations, publishing or any other form of action. If we have a practice of mild relationship with ideas embedded in public action programmes of neo-Nazi, neo-fascist organizations and groups, which is often, unfortunately, you will agree with me, wrapped up in stories of respect for human rights, freedoms and so on. Not accepting the censorship of speech, then, in my humble opinion, is just a sign of low-level solidarity with those who do this. It is not democratic to remain silent, tolerate, or even justify, supporting the threat of other people's freedoms, abuse of public word and oppose constitutional principles, and this is often done in the name of alleged rights and the freedom of advocates of the darkest ideas and crimes in the history of humanity. At the very end, I'll give you two examples. One's from Germany, one's from France. In Germany, five years in prison gets one who is hoarding against parts of the population or calling for violence against them, three years in prison for one who insults the dignity of the victims, approves or denies fascist crimes. In France, the President of the National Front, Jean Marie Lepen, has repeatedly been declared guilty of racist and Nazi claims. In one of Belgrade's municipalities, the gentleman was declared an honorary citizen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19529	Thank you, Mr. Omerovic. National MP Sasa Dujovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19530	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, the law banning manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and banning the use of neo-Nazi and fascist symbols and markings is absolutely necessary for the Republic of Serbia. It is necessary in the way that it actually defines Article 1 of this law and that we generally agree on. Furthermore, after that Article 1, it is a problem. I'll take my turn. In Article 2 paragraph 3, we come clearly to the first problem, which is that the closer conditions for eradicating from the register set out in Article 2 are prescribed by the Minister of Interior, contrary to all criminal laws, contrary to the Constitution. This is what courts are supposed to do. Article 3 clearly states and identifies nationalism with fascism. We disagree. Being a nationalist, being a Serbian nationalist, for me is a positive thing, loving your country and being loyal to it, dying for it, fighting when it's necessary, and it doesn't need to be hidden. To identify a Serbian nationalist and fascist is an insult to me, and I do not think the proposer took care of it when he proposed this. Article 4 is a member who, personally, affects me the most, and all my colleagues who defended the Serbian people through Drina, defended KIM and fought from 1991 to 1999. We have opportunities these days, or a few years back, to see that many of our countrymen who return to Croatia are on certain warrants of Croatian courts. Many of them, of course, are not proven guilty and are freed, but they are being led against so-called. Prosecution proceedings. In itself, it discredits them according to this member of the law, because they are prohibited from gathering in various associations that would try to protect their rights. The question is also raised by certain indictees who have not been expected to be convicted or dropped the indictment, but have passed away in The Hague as the defendants. Article 4 of this bill puts them on a pillar of shame. I think that should be thrown out, and we'll insist on that. Article 5 strengthens the fact of this bill and introduces two more newspapers, which is a different political and personal definition. It opens up a big problem, which is that, due to a different political attitude, a particular political organisation, pause, party or movement can be banned. In accordance with Article 5. The Serbian Constitution, it is clearly defined that this is not possible. Of course, there are criminal laws that regulate how certain political parties are banned or what is done to people who have personal definitions that are contrary to the Constitution. In Article 6. The draft of this law comes up with new terms, which were previously discussed by colleagues. It is provided for in Article 2(2) to include music videos, passwords, etc. in propaganda material. If we accept Article 3 of this bill, then nationalism, i.e. Serbian nationalism is seen as a forbidden thing, therefore, every Serbian patriotic and patriotic song will be considered nationalist and banned. I don't agree with that. I assume that what has been announced here in the coming days this law will be amended and Serbia will get what it needs, which is the law on the ban on fascism and neonasism, and will place Serbia where it belongs. It will have a ban on fascism, as it has always been banned from fascism, because in Serbia fascists do not exist and have never existed. I sincerely hope that the legislator will take certain measures and that we will have the opportunity to vote for this law, in a changed form. If it doesn't come to that, as my predecessors from the Parliament Club said, we probably won't support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19531	Thank you. Mr. Milos Aligrudić, you have 10 minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19532	Thank you, Madam President. In the first part of the presentation, I highlighted some of the moments related to the legal structure of this regulation. For the sake of the public, I would add some more facts regarding the very legal structure of this regulation. I repeat once again, what makes it impossible is exactly how it's written, an extremely bad legal way, advocating concepts in the law itself, introducing some categories, some newspapers that not only can't be in relation to the specialties of other general provisions that regulate some matter, but are directly haired with them, without any solution how this special relationship is applied. To be clear, I'm going to try to explain myself. The Law on Social Organisations and Associations, which is now a valid law in the Republic of Serbia, the ruling coalition withdrew and did not propose to pass a new law a few months ago, so we do not have a new law in the area. In addition to having an anachrone concepts and belonging to an earlier period of life, in which we have all lived before, the basic legal postulates in this law are essentially immutable and would consist of new laws on associations of citizens. This law speaks of how a registered association of citizens will be deleted from the register, which will not be entered, or whose work will be banned. He's taxing on what's causing it. The one anachronous reason concerned a socialist self-government society, etc., is not applicable because it does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. There are other elements, such as the violation of constitutional order, freedom and the rights of man and citizen, such as the cause of racial, religious and other hatred and impatience, such as insulting public morality and so on. The law discusses the procedure to delete one such, already registered organisation from the register. One of the reasons for erasure is the association of that organisation with someone else who has such features, or with other international organisations of that type. In addition, there is the Law on Political Parties, which lays down the procedure of the Register of Political Parties, which is being conducted by the Constitutional Court; a detailed procedure is being developed as it seems. This bill, apart from eradicating certain organisations previously registered in the register, contains only criminal provisions, which show the level of protection, or the degree of protection that is taken by this law, which is far below the level of the Criminal Code. It says here, I repeat once again, if a registered association or organisation in its course of action shows a tendency to a neo-Nazi or fascist organisation or association, they are deleted from the register by law. What happens to those who don't show affection for the association? What about those who act like that? Not a word about it. Those who show affection for the association will be wiped out by law. What does erasing law enforcement mean? This means that, for the erasure of an organisation, an association, by law enforcement, it does not stand here – political parties, although I suppose, from the spirit of this regulation insist on thinking of this kind of political association, legislator, i.e. the bill promoter must provide for taxable conditions that must be met, which then the body which decides to delete only determines, realizing that the conditions have been acquired, and there is an erasure and it is not arbitrarily. There can't be any arbitration in that decision. If you're saying that someone's fondness for something, and what's called neonasism here, later, in text, neonationalism, so there's a general confusion of concepts, you don't know what it's about, if that's a condition for erasing, and that the Minister of the Interior is going to make the rules, and you don't see how that erasure is going to be done at all, under what regulations, what is the reference for action? Who is the organ responsible for erasing? How does the Registrar do that? By whose initiative? Are we going to say that the Minister of the Interior is going to prescribe that by means of a sublegal act? Here, it's another proof of how ridiculous this is for you to write, and, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, my fellow Members, none of us, I said at the outset, will say that society should not be protected from the plot, let alone any other of the fascist or Nazi ideas. It's the most devastating thing the world has ever seen in the 20th century. German Nazism, German form of fascism, i.e. National socialism, unlike Italian fascism, or later Spanish, had one terrible mark, and according to this terrible racist feature, which aims to destroy the existence of an entire nation, we are, in fact, also making a measure of relations with that phenomenon. It is likely that communism, like totalitarian ideology, would have been at the same level as Nazism, and if the regime had such a component and had only been Italian or Spanish fascism, rather than German fascism, Communism would have been at the same level with them. It's simply not a question of whether we should prevent such a phenomenon. That's got to be true. If, knowingly, deliberately, as I said, because of political exhibitionism, we propose such a law, which has no legal meaning, whose provisions cannot be applied in practice, because you see already in the case I have given you, will not be known without the decision of the Administrative Committee or the authentic interpretation of the Legislative Committee and the Serbian Assembly who will apply and in what way this provision. How do you think we're leading a successful fight against such phenomena? From this comes a logical conclusion. That's why we accused the promoter that this is pure political exhibitionism, because if there was something serious going on, it would have been done the other way. What we have resented, as I have already said today, for the sake of the public, is that it is incomprehensible for us, on our parliamentary issue almost two weeks ago, to have such an explanation of the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Debt, which should help the unfortunate government, which is unable to do anything in this country, that even if the debt to the IMF, of those three billion planned, is in line with the law. We have made a proposal to amend and supplement the law very correctly, on which there can be no objection, a bill establishing the authority of the Vojvodina. At that time, the argument was, which I can formally respect, that the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia had not arrived, that the laws were very important in their content and that it was not correct to propose them for the agenda until the opinion arrived. Today, we have a proposal on the agenda for a group of MPs, in this sense equal to the rank that I am talking about, which is legally completely pointless to which no government opinion has ever come. Today, it is being debated and seriously wastes Serbian citizens' time on something that is not sufficiently justified. People's MPs, trying not to fall into the trap of a group of MPs who has submitted this proposal – that any opposition to this law will, in fact, be advocating fascism or neonasism, then they are anxiously saying that the idea is phenomenal, which I agree with, that motivation is great, that the essence is concentrated in Article 1. Now, if that law changes, it will be acceptable and can be voted for. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to amend this law, except for that unfortunate Article 1, we would have to sit down and write it from the beginning and it couldn't contain just 10 members. There should be provisions that work out to the end of the institute that are listed here. The law would have to have 30 or so members and had to be written in a different language from the beginning. If the Assembly Committee, through amendments, can achieve, well done, but technically it's impossible. That's why I think that we should honestly and openly tell our colleagues who have passed this law – okay, if my intention was honorable, if I was wrong in my political assessment towards you, given all the political charms that have been launched from your side, so I may have reacted excessively, but what remains remains is that what you have submitted is unacceptable to Serbia's legal system, even if you had the most honest and honest intention. I do not see any other solution, no other way out of this, if we want to be determined according to this matter, except that the Government of the Republic of Serbia or a larger group of representatives of political states in Parliament write one correct norm translated into the bill, so that the Assembly can discuss it. Believe me, given everything I mentioned earlier, everything seems to me that the congregation has a lot of work to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19533	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the opening of the principled search, I ask – whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Zeljko Tomic, there are two minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19534	I won't take a minute, just a minute. I repeat what I said in the debate, I address, if this law is adopted in this form, personally by the Minister of the Interior, with a proud claim that I am a nationalist and that I will be there for the rest of my life. I want it to be known that if this law is passed, I expect to spend my whole life either paying the fine or staying in jail. I work, I perform, and I will perform, like many of our famous ancestors and contemporaries. That is what I expect and call upon and call upon the Minister of the Interior to react, as he is also directly mentioned in the law. Even to conclude, let me just say - the ruling coalition has succeeded in one thing, which is that in one day those people who follow this assembly transfer make, subconsciously, forget that they are small salaries, that they are empty refrigerators, because we have talked about something that is not even a law, a condition for some European integration, and I don't know what your intentions are. They forgot for a moment about their dry existential problems, forgot about the new blackmails that Joseph Biden brings tomorrow, and that's it. If it's an honor, it's an honor. Serbia must think a little bit more of itself. I hope this kind of non-serious thing doesn't happen here anymore in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-19-0.u19535	Thank you. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm concluding a principle search. We'll continue work tomorrow at ten o'clock. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the sixth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of Members of the People, I find that the sittings are attended by 123 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall, that is, more than one third is present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Vesna Marjanovic and Donka Banovic. We move to the 61st point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the RADIFFUSION Law (principles) You have received a bill submitted by a group of 121 MPs. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. MEP Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; G17 Group of MPs - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; DSS-Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; SPS-JS - 18 minutes; MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group New Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Sends group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak for up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that under this item of the agenda, the MPs will be the MPs: MP Zoran Shami Parliamentary Group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, MP Aleksandra Jankovic, MP Milan Avramović, MP of the SRS, MP Djordje Milicevic, MP of the SPS-JS. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the motionary's representative, Mrs. Kolundjia, want a word?
