ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19199	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the sixth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record, I find that the session is attended by 90 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the electronic system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall, which is more than one-third, and according to the Rules of Procedure, a condition for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momo Colaković, Konstantin Arsenović, Đuro Peric, Milos Aligrudic (before noon), Milica Vojić-Marković, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović, Zoran Kasalovic and Pastor Balint. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, National Assembly Speaker Dr Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic called for the meetings, next to Minister Sasa Dragina, to be attended by professor. Dr. Mirjana Milosevic, Dr. Milan Petrovic and Dragan Injac, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Mr. Milan Stegić, Mr. Milos Milovanovic, Momcilo Mitreski and Slobodan Teofanov, Assistant Ministers, Dusan Pajkić, Director General Inspector of the Ministry of Agriculture, Dr. Zoran Mićović, Director of the Veterinary Administration, Dr. Jan Bocanski, Director of Plant Protection and Dr. Saša Orlović, Director of the Forest Management at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a POLJOPRIVRETE AND RURAL DURAL (Common Main Search 4-18th Points) Consensual Decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint principle search on drafts of the law under items 4 to 18 of the agenda, and before opening a common principle search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since it is five hours in total, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 Group plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group DSS – Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS Group - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Salad group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes, and according to Article 93. National Assembly Rules of Procedure MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to apply for a word with the order of MPs, if they have not already done so. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them, according to these points, to be represented by the following MPs: Zoran Nikolic, the DSS MP, MP Zoran Bortic of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, MP Milutin Jelic, MP of the New Serbia Group, MP Arpad Fremond Parliamentary Group of Minorities, MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, MP of the PUPS, National MP Milorad Krstin MP of the SRS. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a common principle search on the Proposal for a Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, the Proposal for a Law on Food Safety, the Proposal for a Law on Health of Plants, the Proposal for a Law on Plants and Land Fertilizers, the Proposal for a Law on Plant Protection, the Proposal for a Law on Wine Protection, the Proposal for a Law on Cancer and Other Alcoholic Drinks, the Proposal for a Law on ethanol, the Proposal for a Law on Public Storage for Agricultural Products, the Proposal for a Law on Animal Welfare, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Planters. I also inform the National Assembly that the Secretary of the National Assembly, Mr Veljko Odalovic, received a notice from the Secretary-General of RTS, Mr Stanislav Veljkovic, who informs that on Thursday 14 May in the period – he will not report the matter, he is not a notification of the future – he informs that on Thursday, please do not throw it away, the notice will be announced and distributed as well as the obligation for all materials concerning the course of the National Assembly session. Once again, I ask the MPs of the people to, respecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, disciplined, and in order, and in peace and quiet, participate in the work. I would like to inform you that on Thursday, 14 May 2009, between 1150 and 1153, there have been technical problems on the optical receiver at the RTS Master's Street in Aberdar Street, through which a signal is received for the transfer of the Serbian Parliament's session. The problem arose at the time of the presentation of the DSS MP, MP Zoran Shami, and manifested himself as a disturbance in the picture, freezing the image, while the tone was aired uninterrupted. In the hope that you will have the understanding that the cause of the interference in the transmission is due to technical problems, he warmly welcomes the National Assembly, Stanislav Veljkovic. National MP Dragan Todorovic wanted to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Please register in the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, on the basis of Article 27, I'm asking a question, since we haven't been here in a month, it may have been before, but I noticed it only yesterday, in addition to our parliamentary groups on the balcony, there's a device, I assume that the camera used in the Big Brother's house, and I'm asking the question why is it just opposite the SRS parliamentary group? If this camera is able to record the whole hall, I wouldn't mind, but if it isn't, I'd ask one camera from the opposite side, especially when it comes to the ruling majority, because that's where the theft happens, which is where we've had the opportunity to see in the previous days, and if this is the camera that records the entire session, I demand that we be given the video of the day that some MPs were found out of the O.R. and that their cards were in the MPs' units. That's how we're gonna solve the problem that came up, because you're saying that the theft wasn't, we're saying that there was a theft, that it was recorded. Here, now we have the opportunity to see for ourselves, since there is obviously someone who follows the full course of the session. I ask that this video be reviewed, so that we can properly resolve the problem of stealing when voting on a set of laws that were on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19201	The time at your disposal to explain the provisions of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure has been used. National MP, there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, nor have you used, in your request to receive words under article 100, or to apply the right of business, but to abuse it. However, I refer you to the reading of the Rules of Procedure and what is the right of the People's Parliament, when it seeks word for injury to the Rules of Procedure, to which it refers, and what the statement of the People's Parliament must contain. Since you are interested in the work of technique in the building of the National Assembly, I ask the National Assembly, secretary and competent technical services to provide you with written information on how the shooting takes place in the National Assembly building, how the recording and automatic camera configuration is organised, how it is connected with microphones used by the MPs and how the entire recording course of RTS takes place. In addition to this written information, I would ask the National Assembly to provide you with written information on how to use the parliamentary units. National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19202	I also call on Article 27 and Article 104. I asked the president around 4:30 last night, given that she gave us notice that television broadcast was being cut off, when the television broadcast would continue. She said the transmission would continue later. I was not satisfied with her response, and I would like to say that the Eurovision transfer was on the First Programme and that it had nothing to do with the Second Programme, and after the end of the match Serbia - Austria, the young football team, we had the opportunity to watch some teenage series, Garfield, which I love and some other things, which I would say are not in public interest, or that they have no advantage over the law that was being discussed yesterday, which is the law on traffic security. I'm also expressing a protest of the response you gave to the technical problems that occurred yesterday. You said that in the period from 11.50 to 11.53, there were technical problems related to the picture and tone, when our authorised representative was speaking. Zoran Shami, but I also reacted yesterday and asked for an explanation, because yesterday we had a colleague, Miroslav Petkovic, a colleague of the DSS, who spoke about 14.00 hours, who was also followed without tone. Our third representative was Jovan Palalic, the moment he spoke in half he was interrupted transmission, six or seven minutes before the appointment that the president of the Assembly informed us that he would be committed to the match of Serbia - Austria. (President: Two minutes. You took advantage of the time available to you to express your injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. ) You absolutely need to supplement the answer and give one too much information.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19203	People's MP, Zoran Nikolic, please read article 100 and your right to a word for wanting to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure agree with what the right is described in the Rules of Procedure. You got the word and you abused that right. The right to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure has been a violation committed during the session and immediately after the MP noticed that there had been an injury. The abuse of that right is to speak of something that is believed to have been a violation of the Rules of Procedure during yesterday's session. You've told a lie. Neither did I tell you, nor did Secretary of Parliament Veljko Odalovic tell you. I read you a statement from the secretary general of RTS, he told you, not me and not Secretary Veljko Odalović, so I ask you to keep an eye on people, how you do it. Does the proposing representative, Sasha Dragin, the minister of agriculture, forestry and water industry want a word? Please register in the electronic system only one pressure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19204	The Honorable President-in-Office of the Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, as Pascal once said - justice without power is powerless, a force without justice is tyrannical. Justice and strength need to be united, and to do so, what is just is to be strong and what is strong to be righteous. The Republic of Serbia, who knows which way, is faced with numerous challenges related to the global economic crisis and the fight for real jobs. Agriculture is the engine of our society's development and the only branch that creates a surplus in exchange with other countries. Farmers living in the country and earning from their work in the country must find ways to improve their knowledge and further increase the competitiveness of their products. In order to meet the real demands of farmers, the state has prepared a set of laws in the area of agriculture, which essentially, outlineing the future direction of development of our basic economic branch, regulate this economic area. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have 15 laws in the field of agriculture prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. These laws are drawn up by harmonising two types of needs - the need for individual agricultural producers and the need to bring our legal system into line with European legislation. I will present to you in the shortest lines of the laws that lie ahead of you. The basic law for a country, a law that protects the life and health of people, animal health, herbs and the environment, is certainly a law on food safety. This law comprehensively regulates all aspects of production, transport, control and food consumption. One of the most important consequences of the adoption of food safety laws is the improvement of consumer rights. In short, the food safety law regulates the food control system in Serbia, which is very important for both Serbian citizens and the state of Serbia, because without this law, it cannot become an EU member. If the food safety law is one of the most important for Serbia's entry into the EU, then the law on agriculture and rural development is the most important law for Serbian agriculture. It's a roof law for all agriculture. The objectives of agricultural policy, the types of incentives, the register of land, the registration, the reporting in agriculture, the integrated agricultural information system, are all in it. The establishment of agrarian payment administration will finally establish a centralised incentive system and control of the dedicated use of funds in the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of laws on agriculture and rural development would result in an increase in the competitiveness of agricultural products, support for sustainable rural development, and support for the standard of living of people dependent on this economic branch. The livestock law defines the objectives of livestock farming, livestock farming entities and their organisational forms, breeding objectives and implementation of breeding programmes, productivity control and preservation of the characteristics of domestic animals, cultivation of domestic animals, cultivation of bees, aquaculture, conservation of genetic reserves of domestic animals and biodiversity in livestock, production and transport of food of plant origin for domestic animals and products of animal origin, transport of agricultural material. In addition, the adoption of this law will form a breeding organisation, allowing for the direct impact of manufacturers on the setting of selection goals and the increase of the productivity of domestic animals. This law also provides for the keeping of the main breeding records of domestic animals in accordance with international standards, which will allow breeders to obtain data on the quality of breeding animals and conditions for the entry of domestic animals in the main register of domestic animals. The Law on Public Storages is a key law for agriculture in Serbia. This law provides that, as a confirmation of the storage of the agricultural product, the public warehouse shall issue to the owner of the agricultural good commodity which consists of two parts: receipts and publishers. The owner of the trade record may use the trade record as a stock for a short-term loan or make the sale of the record itself. This law regulates the conditions for the establishment of public storage facilities for agricultural products, conditions and way of issuing authorisations for the operation of public warehouses, as well as the conditions and manner of use for them, the way in which they work in public warehouses, the procedure for issuing traffic and stocking of goods, forced collection, demand for goods, the liability of the public warehouse through the compensation fund. Farmers with impatience wait for this law to be passed, because when it is passed, they will be able to get more money for their product, because they will choose when they will sell their goods. Secondly, due to the introduction of the trade record, farmers will be able to obtain short-term loans, since they will use their goods as collateral, and will not, as so far, as a pledge to give home or their country. In the end, what is very important, farmers will be able to lift goods of the same quality as they handed over. The next law is the law on plant health. This law provides for organisational and functional strengthening of the phytosanitary service, which is vital to the Republic, especially in order to prevent the introduction and prevention of the spread of potentially contagious and harmful organisms, which can pose a serious threat to the national economy. Given that the Republic of Serbia has optimal ecological and edaphic conditions for the production and processing of diverse plants, that it is recognizable not only in the EU, but also in the world by the wealth of plant resources, this adoption of this law should allow domestic plant manufacturers to access the international market, to provide healthy plants to domestic consumers, which will reflect successful agricultural production. Realisation of the law will have a direct impact on the following participants: farmers themselves, importers, traffickers and warehouses, as well as service providers in this area. Realisation of this law will not cost citizens, businesses, or individual businesses, but in some respects, even reduce. The Law on plant protection products regulates the registration, control, transport and application of plant protection products in agriculture and forestry. The Law on plant-food and land-processing agents regulates the classification, quality, marking of phytosanitary control and causes in transport, import and application of research on plant and land-mining products, as well as other issues of importance for plant-eating and land-mining agents. The rakija law regulates an area of great importance in Serbia's agriculture, which includes the production, i.e. the registration of rakija producers and other alcoholic beverages, through quality, geographical indications, declarations, as well as the transport of these drinks. This law imposes an obligation on anyone who wishes to engage in the production and transport of brandy and other alcoholic beverages to register with the producer of brandy and other alcoholic beverages. The introduction of the register prevents illegal production and traffic, eliminates the production of counterfeits and allows monitoring of all routes of alcohol, control of the entire process of production, starts from basic raw materials to the final product packaged in a bottle, guaranteeing the origin and quality of the product. What especially interests our farmers, and I would like to repeat once again, no one will be forbidden to bake their own homemade brandy, but in order to bring it to the market, it will have to register for it. The Wine Act is in line with the latest European standards and legislation of 2008, and the regulation of the international wine and wine office, which meets the conditions for the smooth export of domestic wine to the European and world markets. Also, due to the evolution and transformation of wine production in Serbia, there has been an obsolescence of certain provisions of old legislation, so this proposal regulates the problem of grapes and wine, and in an adequate manner, which corresponds to the current situation, where wine production can be done by entrepreneurs and legal persons, afirming domestic production, quality and geographical origin from Serbia. The Animal Welfare Act defines the responsibility of legal and physical persons, i.e. entrepreneurs for animal welfare, the rule of treatment and protection against abuse, the development and promotion of human consciousness in the direction of respect, concern and responsibility for animals. With this law, we put our shoulders against the shoulder with developed European democracies on animal rights. The ethanol law regulates the conditions of production, control, quality, declaration of transport and use of ethanol, as well as supervision of the implementation of this law. The adoption of the ethanol law will regulate both production and transport and imports of ethanol. The production of alcohol represents a significant field for the placement of basic goods, such as cereals, cane, molasses, potatoes, fruit and wine. This contributes to the sustainability of the production of these raw materials and the increase in their price, which can be of great economic importance to the economy of certain regions, as it represents a significant export of revenue to raw materials processors. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on reproductive material of forest trees complements and elaborates certain provisions, in particular those found to be difficult to apply in practice during the application of the law. During the delivery of a large number of shipments on the ground for the purposes of shaming from various wastelanders, and what happens at the same time, in the spring and autumn, inspectors, physically, cannot obtain the assurances of origin for all shipments that go on the ground, especially for small quantities that usually take natural persons to re-infect private property. The amendments to the law will allow producers, i.e. small-scale suppliers, to issue only their own document, a label with their necessary elements, which are prescribed by law, and inspectors will control the quantities of seedlings, which are thus placed on the market, on the basis of the records that the manufacturer, or supplier, is obliged to lead. The Law on genetically modified orranisms will ensure a high level of environmental protection, biodiversity, human health, consumer interest, and that citizens' awareness of genetically modified organisms is raised to a high level by education and participation in the decision-making process. It is of the strategic interest of Serbia not to allow the introduction of genetically modified organisms into production. In this way we develop a healthy sector, healthy agriculture, and thus protect our selection houses. The adoption of laws on the protection of plant breeders delivers the following results: the protection of plant breeders' rights, the promotion of domestic pollinators to create new plant varieties, the creation of conditions for safe placement on the domestic market of foreign protected varieties, the availability of better new domestic varieties and foreign varieties of agricultural producers in order to increase the volume and quality of agricultural production. It will be possible to apply for the protection of old varieties, which are well-managed in a limited period of three years and whose creators do not have any economic gain to use. Finally, I would like to introduce to you the amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act, which are probably of the utmost interest to the farmers themselves. The most important changes and additions to the laws are to abolish the agricultural basic units of local self-government, changes in the part relating to the payment of changes in the purpose of agricultural land. This amount pays 50% of the market value, regardless of the cadastar class in the existing law, from three to eight cadastrian classes, is the maximum amount of 1,500 euros per hectare. The changes relate to the use of agricultural land. First, units of local self-government are obliged to develop an annual programme of protection and arrangements for the use of agricultural land, no later than 31 March, to decide to rent agricultural land by 1 June of the current year. The right to use agricultural land without compensation for forest enterprises in state property has been defined as an extension of current users. The right to use agricultural land is defined with compensation for non-agricultural production, oil wells and petrogenerators. The rights of cross-referencing are introduced and three, above all, for the owners of the bay systems, then for cattle farmers, as well as for the setting up of a two-circuiting system to rent the land, which will allow local farmers to have the right to cross-referencing for agricultural land in their catastrian municipality. In this way, it is avoided that various speculators come to auctions, raise prices to blackmail farmers themselves, or that latinists take huge parcels all over our country, and thus prevent local farmers from coming to what is of great importance to them for production, which is agricultural land. The agricultural land administration is being educated, sanctions are being provided for those participants in a bid to rent agricultural land on state property, which disturb public order and peace at auctions, cite non-serious prices that they later refuse to pay and thus damage both the state and local self-government. The payment of the total lease for a year in advance, before the signing of the lease agreement and before the entry into possession of the land and the laying of a bank guarantee for the payment of the lease, and I must thank the MPs who have worked on this draft amending the law, because this will allow people not to enter into possession of a land they have not paid. These amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land are primarily introduced in the procedures of granting state-owned land to use, but more importantly, justice is introduced for individual agricultural producers, who will finally be able to participate in auctions, where they will also be able to win. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the eyes of farmers are facing the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which should pass key laws for them. They're watching and waiting for you right now. They're waiting for us all here to show responsibility to them. Because now he's sitting and looking at us and thinking about what he's going to live on tomorrow, what production he's going to do, how the state is going to help them and what else he can learn. So let's help him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19205	Before we continue the course of the session, with the right to the word of the committees and MPs who have issued an opinion, I would like to inform the National Assembly that the Secretary of the National Assembly, Mr Veljak Odalovic, has received a notice from the Secretary General of RTS, Mr Stanislav Veljković, on today's commitments to RTS. "Dear Mr. Odalovic, I would like to inform you that on Friday, May 15, 2009, since 17.55 p.m. and due to the earlier commitments of the second Serbia-Red Star final match, we will not be able to follow the National Assembly's meeting in direct transmission at the Second RTS Programme. A session of the Serbian Parliament will be broadcast from 23.40 on the second RTS programme." At the same time, and on the basis of Article 85(5), paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working today after 1800 hours, and by discussing the item of the agenda that will be the subject of our discussion at that time. Do the rapporteurs of the committees in charge want a word, the rapporteurs of the Committee on Agriculture, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on European Integration? Yeah. ) The relevant committees shall have 10 minutes for the report. National MP Zoran Mašić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19206	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers and Associates of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I want to start at the beginning, in front of the Committee on Agriculture, and, above all, on my own behalf, as chairman of the Committee, since the Committee's session was planned today only for 12.00 hours, to be discussed in the principle of a law that was included in the agenda, so we will discuss today a draft law that did not pass neither parent committee, so there was no debate in principle, because it was not technically organised that session. I express my personal dissatisfaction and protest, above all towards the Presidency of the Assembly and the President, which forms a agenda, as well as a government that has proposed such a significant number of laws to be discussed in this House in a united debate. I think that never before in the history of parliamentaryism, let me say, in a more recent era in the Republic of Serbia, in the form of a united debate, there have been so many laws discussed, and so many laws in a very significant economic area such as agriculture. I don't think that, first of all, they didn't deserve our country's agricultural producers, because I don't see why they're being denied the right to hear more in detail what this house and this National Assembly is discussing and what laws from the agrarian area they're going to bring. We are all witnesses, both us MPs and the general public and agricultural producers, that at least the laws in the area of agricultural production have been passed over the past 10 years, since the introduction of so-called. democratic authorities, that in the last three and a half years no law has been amended nor has agricultural production laws been passed and that at least this area is in line with EU rules, and I don't see any reason to approach the debate on these laws in this way. It may have made sense to group a few laws and discuss them as such, but at the same time discussing ethanol, wine, rakija, animal welfare, agriculture and rural development, I don't think it really makes any sense for all of us, who, above all, wanted to give public and agricultural producers an idea of what these laws are new in the area of agricultural production, are in fact disabled, even unthinkable. I cannot in any way approve that this government is denying funding for agricultural production and budget and budget rebalancing, in particular, and that it is denying farmers the right to hear what these laws essentially bring and what it expects agricultural production to do in the coming period. During today and during the debate on amendments, some laws that are first introduced as such will be discussed in our country's legal system. That's even more reason to have a different debate. I'm just going to mention a few very significant laws that have never been in our legal system before. At the end, the largest number of laws to be discussed were in a period of one more, with a wider scope of the law, such as laws that regulated the area of production of brandy, wine, ethanol, etc. Now it's demarcated. But above all, the food safety law, which is very important and important for all food producers and for our competitiveness on the European and world markets, is for the first time introduced into our country's legal system and I think our public deserved to hear more about this law. Furthermore, the agricultural rural development law, which should be regulated in a different way, first of all, the area of payment and subsidisation of agricultural production and the abolition of the regulation of this important area, such as in the past, where the government has passed a number of regulations that regulate certain areas, both agricultural production and agricultural production in the rural area. One of the essential laws that is also introduced for the first time into our legal system is the law on public storage for agricultural products, which gives farmers the opportunity to store their agricultural products in public warehouses, firstly, to wait for a more competitive price on the domestic market or to compete through it for certain credit incentives or the purchase of equipment and machinery. We simply will not have the opportunity to state in the most basic lines the essence of such a legal rule. Furthermore, the animal welfare law is also introduced for the first time into our legal system. This law should regulate everything that is relevant to the welfare of animals. We well know that in our country this well-being is not respected and that the mentality of our citizens is far from respecting animals in the way they deserve, so that this law regulates and imposes certain criminal measures for disrespect, and yet I underline, we will not have a further opportunity to discuss these laws. Certainly the laws in the field of plant production, as we will discuss them, and I think that the parliamentary majority will adopt them, are in some way new, even though they were in our legal system, but in the form of otherwise formulated laws. The Law on Plant Health, the Law on Plant Feeders and Land Fertilizers, the Law on Plant Protection, the Law on the Protection of Plant Variety Rights, the Law which is literally included in the agenda when the agenda of this session was established, where most MPs did not have time to review it, or to see what is fundamentally regulated, so that they really cannot accept it as a normal relationship between both this Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards agricultural production and according to a set of these laws that we need to discuss, that they are put on the agenda in this way and that this is how the debate is organised. I hope my fellow MPs, first of all from the opposition, but I think those who belong to the post, can't accept this kind of procedure and this kind of debate about these laws. Certainly within the time that remains at my disposal within my parliamentary group, I will try to make the most important things out of certain laws. It will be impossible to say just a few sentences about all the laws and the time that an authorised representative has will run out, and where the individual within the parliamentary group will have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19207	Does the word rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, President Vlatko Ratkovic, want? No, I don't. ) Does he want the word of the Committee on European Integration? No, I don't. ( ) Do the MPs who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on European Integration when considering these draft laws want a word? The MPs who issued the opinion were Momir Markovic, Radica Jocic and Sladjan Mijaljevic? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19208	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here is another law that will do more harm than the benefits of agriculture, in particular winemaking and wine production, and that is why I have singled out my opinion on the Committee on European Integration, because I intend to explain to you and the citizens of Serbia some of the things that set me on fire about the moment I opened this law. Otherwise, the principle in this National Assembly is to pass laws that are literally prescribed from Europe and many of them or many members of these laws are absolutely incompatible with the state of Serbia, with Serbian legislation, with conditions and relations in Serbia. The problems that the state of Serbia, especially winemakers and winemakers, have had so far, will not be corrected by this law. On the contrary, the problems will accumulate and many of the rights that the winemakers had will be denied. Let us begin by not explaining to the citizens of Serbia, gentlemen of the ministry, that they will no longer be able to produce wine for their own purposes. At the same time, there are some expressions that are absolutely not necessary in this law. Let's start with saying the region... The wine district, yes, the wine region no, because the region can mean an area that goes beyond the borders of the Serbian state and that, thanks to the fact that many laws will find holes when laws are passed, we will come to a situation where our geographical origin is served by some on the other hand. The wine range includes a district that is within the state border and can then mark the brand and name of the wine to protect itself. There's no such thing as regional wine. Furthermore, what is very dangerous, and here it is carried out in Article 17 and Article 51, which is the import of wine and grapes for the production of wine on Serbian territory, for production by winemakers, or wine producers in Serbia. What does that mean? Direct undermining of the producer of grapes in the state of Serbia. You have provided for Article 17 and Article 51 of the import of wine in the rinfuze. First, let me ask you, how are you going to protect the grape producers? On the other hand, you say it's forbidden to produce wine from grapes of direct birth hybrids, from grapes from native plantations. Did you walk, let's say, this Serbia, to see where the grape varieties are cut, to go to the Great Trnovo, and to see that of those chocolates, which are made of cuttings that never produced wine. These chocolates are literally guarded to have a strong pelzer that will germinate on a wild variety. How come now someone will also produce grapes and wine? I say again, what is very dangerous is the import of wine, mostly of suspicious quality, because only such wine will come to Serbia. From the importer, i.e. the producer of the so-called ‘producer’. wines will directly damage the producers of grapes and our vineyards. This law will literally put our agricultural producers who have small plantings, who have plantations for their consumption, into a situation that they will have to put a sprinkler on their backs, put a hack and destroy their plantings. As for those who will survive that first blow of yours, which this law has clearly defined, they will come into a situation...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19209	People's MP, time at your disposal has been used. Thank you. Five minutes is the time available if you want to isolate your opinion and I reminded you that these five minutes have expired in five minutes and 15 seconds. You had time to finish your sentence. The word was sought by the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management Mr. Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19210	Out of respect for the MPs, I will stand as I speak. I would first of all like to thank Mr. Mašić, the president of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, for the constructive debate. I would like to point out that from 2000 to today, only five agricultural laws have been on the Assembly's agenda and have been passed. If it is taken into account that agriculture is an area related to European integration, which even takes up about 40% of the legislation that we need to comply with European, as well as some eight thousand regulations, I think that, with all due respect for previous administrations, it should be far more laws to this day that have been passed. We have tried to make as much effort as possible in the past 10-11 months, as this administration has done in this field and as many legislative proposals as possible to bring before you esteemed MPs, to discuss and discuss them. The time, unfortunately, is beating us all up and for that reason I guess maybe it's not enough time to talk about everything in detail. I would be most fortunate if we had far more time to present what the employees of the Ministry of Agriculture have worked hard, staying long after hours, without any diaries or similar gains during the past 11 months at work. As for Mr. Markovic's debate, I'd like to point out a few things. You mentioned that we prescribe EU laws. The essence of the common agricultural agrarian policy is that all EU countries have the same laws. That is why the laws, as you have simplified them, are being copied, and I am telling you that they are in line with that in the EU. What you said next – that manufacturers will not be able to produce wine for their own purposes, it does not stand. Of course, you have the right to be lawless, and I will allow myself to explain that and as far as wine is concerned, every farmer can produce wine for his own purposes. If he wants to take it to the market, he has to register. That's what's happened so far, and nothing's changed. As for imports of wine and grapes, you probably weren't informed either, but imports of wine and grapes have been free so far. However, this law protects domestic producers by clearly defining regulations, quality and how grapes, i.e. wine, can be imported into our country, so as not to make dumping unfair competition. For the end, do not mind me, but you have confused the Great Trnovac, which is in Kosovo and where no wine is produced, or grapes, and Velika Drenovo, located between Kruševec and Trstenik, where all the breeding plantations are located. As someone who visits Serbia often, for three days everyone employed at the Ministry of Agriculture is in the field, I know, since I've been there more than once. Thank you very much and pleasantly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19211	National MP Momir Markovic is seeking a right to replication on the basis of wrong interpretation. Here you go, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19212	Mr. Minister, I'm glad you fixed me. I'm glad you were there, but you could also look at what's going on in there and see that those chocolates, which are made of skating pelzers, don't make grapes. You didn't tell me, Serbia's citizens, or the people's MPs today, that the moment we join the EU, that is, when this law is, we actually adopt it today, that every chocolate in Serbia will be listed and that citizens won't be able to easily get crews or two more, that they will sign not only when it comes to grapes, but all the fruit, so to speak, that they won't be able to plant any more chocolate than we have tomorrow. On the other hand, you didn't say what I specifically pointed out, a geographical origin. Well, remember, Mr. Minister, that Slovenia was the largest wine producer, the famous "Slovin", the famous wine of grapes produced in Macedonia or Serbia, on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, on the territory of southern Serbia. Today, this law opens up the possibility for wine producers to import grapes or to kill by importing grapes the price of domestic producers who will have to sell to them and thus destroy wine production, or grapes. That's the point. On the other hand, it's a good thing you've admitted that these laws, as you said, are consistent. That's what I'm interpreting - the overwritten, or translated, you didn't rewrite them, you translated them, there's just a lot of bad translation, a lot of words that don't belong in this law. You should've at least looked at it and passed the law. It's nice of you to say that we prescribe laws from the EU, because without these laws, you certainly won't, we won't be in Europe anyway, because Europe doesn't need us, it only needs our market, and you've already given it to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19213	The word has a minister of agriculture, forestry and water production, Sasa Dragin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19214	Dear Mr. Markovic, it is your right not to be informed and familiar with this subject, that you do not understand. I'll let myself explain. This law has absolutely nothing to do with our EU accession negotiations, i.e. it has absolutely nothing to do with raising so far. You probably didn't hear from my previous presentation, so I'll do it again - importing wine and grapes is already free. This law prevents the dumping of wine and grapes imports and thus allows farmers to be protected from unfair competition from abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19215	Does the word want Radica Jocic's MP, who has given her opinion? Yeah. ) Please, just register in the electronic system once on the button in front of you, so I can give you my word. Did you put the card on and press it once? I don't have you registered on a list by name. If you don't mind me, trying to put a parliamentary unit next to you and then asking the service to check if there's an MP's in front of you... I don't have you registered. Please, check it out, and it happens to me, if the card is well placed, with the chip down and the picture up. Yes, it is. I'll reset, then try again. Your card is given by Radica Jocic. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19216	On the Committee on European Integration, I have singled out my opinion on the adoption of the wine law, because I think, in accordance with the SRS' position, there are far more important segments of the life of Serbian citizens who are not sufficiently regulated by the relevant legal acts, so that the government will deal with the preparation of certain laws only for reasons for them to be in line with the European Union's request. In an explanation of the work – the reasons for the adoption of the law, according to the EU's agrarian policy in the previous period did not produce the expected results on the regulation of the wine market and the improvement of the competitiveness of European wine, in 2008 it began with the reform of the wine sector in the EU, which was launched by the publication of the Council of Ministers' Regulation on 29 April 2008 on the common organisation of the wine market. Faster and better, as if we had solved all the problems, we rushed to bring the wine law into line with EU legislation. All agree that the Republic of Serbia has very favourable conditions for the cultivation of vines and the production of high quality wines, which used to be recognizable not only in the EU, but also in the world, but given the very reduced resources of the agrarian part of the budget, I am not sure that any harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation will allow better access of domestic producers to the international market. Given that agricultural production subsidies have been drastically reduced or completely abolished in Serbia, and that EU agrarian policy is based on numerous subsidies, I do not think that the adoption of all these laws can be very helpful to our agricultural producers either. Analyzing the wine law, I couldn't help but recall the time when as a student at school, who had over 1,000 students, I took part in harvesting grapes in the vineyard of a cooperative that had dozens of hectares. The area of the Sitician ravine has always been known for its good wines, as well as for its good grapes. However, long-standing poor agricultural policy has failed major social vineyards and wineries, and we now have to adapt to changing trends in the EU market and to develop small family wineries. Given that in today's press, Minister Dinkic announced an increase in the subsidy to agriculture, and so far at least from what he has promised there has never been anything, it means that farmers will wait in vain for subsidies, as Serbian citizens are waiting in vain for 1,000 euros for action. The SRS will not vote for this law, because it does not solve the accumulated problems in the production of grapes and wine, does not prevent the possibility of malfeasance and counterfeiting of quality wines, nor does it give a clear picture of how and who will be affected by the solutions proposed in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19217	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19218	I thank my colleague Jocic for his constructive discussion. What I would like to say is that this year, the Ministry gives 1,200,000 dinars per hectare for highly productive vineyards for registered agricultural holdings and that we have preserved that part of the subsidy, and the Tvining project with the Kingdom of Spain is the result of which the wine-wine register was made and therefore all regions in which wine is grown and produced in Serbia are protected.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19219	National MPs who have objections to the quality and volume of the tone may notice that the minister is speaking to an MP who has singled out an opinion, and that may be a real problem for the others for the volume of sound, because he is turned away from the microphone, but I have no doubt that he can speak louder, so that MPs who have not directly singled out their opinion or have special objections to the law. National MP Sladjan Mijaljevic also issued an opinion. Here you go. I ask the MPs, just to remind all of us, therefore, the application for the word is once pressed on the key and then you no longer press the key, the electronic system gives you the right to speak and disables the microphone, so just once.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19220	The Honorable Presidency, since we have solved the problem of technique, may we also welcome Mr. Minister of Honor. Indeed, Mr. Minister, it impresses your energy. It's nice to listen to you, but it's really hard to work with you. As you said earlier, agriculture is an engine of Serbia's development, and this set of 15 laws has been filed out of two needs, the need for agricultural producers to reach their products as easily as possible, and another need is to comply with the rules with the European Union and various others, we hope for potential, our trade associates and the exchange of goods. However, as the minister arrives, so does the set of laws. This is already the fourth-fiveth minister since 2000 and a third-fourth set of agricultural laws. We remember a lot of nice promises. Of course, farmers are the ones who have become guinea pigs in too many good promises. Agricultural producers trust educated demagogues on their words, raise their loans, borrow their banks, build stables, buy cows, plant orchards, and then come up with milk on the streets, sewers and cut orchards, plant vineyards and so forth. Whenever you pass a law or regulation, damage is done to Serbia. Of course, we are expressing the skepticism that these laws will be successfully applied and will bring some benefit, because your experts have given us so much quality advice that I just get a chill when I remember what they've advised us all to do. Let us remember that we were advised that instead of chickens and pigs, we would grow California gliders and snails, that instead of pigs, sheep and cattle we would grow chinchillas, insides and visions. Really interesting advice. Don't forget that instead of potatoes, we can also plant peanuts. That's what a famous agriculture expert advised five or six years ago. These laws are just another list of good wishes, and we're expressing a really great skepticism that they're going to apply at all. We think that these, as well as other laws that have been passed over the past few months, are also protected by certain organisations, certain companies that are leading and headed by certain tycoons. We in Serbia have really more bottled wine than vines or grapes produced. We have more bottledforks than pears and apples together, which can be born in Serbia. What to say is that the great hosts lost their estates, what the foreign tycoons bought a certain agricultural land, bought certain agricultural goods, as well as vineyards, and that it all went somewhere for some decommissioning, that it went in that direction that they didn't produce anything, and in this country they didn't pay what they signed to do. It should not be reminded of what Mr Petar Jojic has mentioned in the past few months, what has only been done in Vojvodina and how much the budget of Serbia, even from this sphere of the Ministry of Agriculture, remains short by tycoons and those whom you cannot look into and ask them to pay what they are required to pay under the contract. We are truly expressing a very serious skeptic that this will be just a list of good wishes and that the laws will not be applied as anyone has imagined, except to make it very clear or put on paper what we are producing and what could be controlled here in Serbia so that our market can be used to sell foreign goods instead of our goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19221	The word has a minister of agriculture, forestry and water industry, Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19222	Dear fellow Mijaljević, I could not help but say that I absolutely agree with everything you have just said, as if you have quoted some of my interviews from a recent period, first of all, that part of our country has been done by various experts and urged people to grow snails and worms, internals, annuities, chinchillas and other things, and from that they only took money from equipment sellers, who untraceably lost themselves and left farmers wrapped in black. As far as the land work is concerned, I absolutely agree with you. Many people took land and did not pay money for it and damaged both the state and local self-government, as I presented in the opening statement. You mentioned Mr. Ambassador Peter Jojic, I can say that this is a man with whom I have extremely good co-operation and who pointed to several such malfeasances and it was my pleasure to press charges against the persons who took the state land and did not pay the rent. Since this administration runs agricultural land, over 200 lawsuits have been filed on the grounds that no payment for state land has been made, and all the documentation is presented to Mr Jojic, and I hope that we will have equally good co-operation in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19223	Since we are done with the part of the session at which the right to speak has been given by MPs who have issued an opinion on the committees, we are going to the part where the right to the word is given by the presidents, or by the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. Seven authorised representatives and the order in which they will receive the word is from the smallest parliamentary group, i.e. the president or the authorised representative who represents this parliamentary group, and the order is the following: the first will have the word of MP Siniša Stamenković, the PUPS parliamentary group, followed by MP Arpad Fremond, the Parliamentary Group of Minorities, followed by MP Velimir Ilic, will take a word on behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group, followed by MP Slobodan Maras, the authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group, so Zoran Bortic, the SPS-JS parliamentary group, followed by MP Zoran Nikolic, the MP of Parliament DSS, and the last reported for the time is the MP Milorad Krstin, the SRS parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, only I ask you to apply for a word to one of the MPs. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19224	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected fellows and advisers, it has been almost three years since some legislation from the agrarian parliament was passed, and in the upcoming debate we will discuss and adopt 15 fundamental, important legal acts for agriculture, food industry and nation in general. This debate has launched a very complex and responsible procedure for the adoption of its own legal acts and sublegal documents on the basis of which primary agricultural production, food production and safe food transport will take place. In a relatively short time, some 8,000 documents necessary for domestic and European agricultural policies and food exports worldwide must be considered, harmonised and adopted. For the harmonisation of our European and world regulations, the most important solutions are the laws that are before us. Key laws or basic laws stemming from all other legal solutions are – the law on agriculture and rural development and the law on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act. It is good that the procedure also includes agrarian laws, but even more important is the status of our agriculture and food industries, peasants and workers, where the press will be applied. The application of these laws is possible in a stable agrarian, which, according to the long-term measures of subsidisation of agriculture, is addressed to national interest and exports. I remind you that in agriculture and agriculture we create 35% of the social product. Agricultural and food products are participating with 25% worth of Serbia's exports. However, it is evident that over a longer period of time we are bringing our agrarian policy into the dominant social policy in which only smaller registered agricultural households and producers are given incentives, which have about 15% of agricultural land, i.e. total farmland. This would mean definitely leaving the agrobusiness market concept in Serbia during this period. We have to admit that there has been a drastic reduction in the agrarian budget and the framework in which you work. A nominal reduction from 27.2 billion to 20.4 billion dinars, i.e. 6.8 billion or a full 25%, is a terrible blow to the frame in which you work. It's a real cut of about 50%, due to the old debts and inflation that's following us. The relative decrease from 7.15% to 2.92% of the gross national budget. In a situation where expenditure from the 2009 budget is 7.6% higher than the revenues from the announced state support to the agrarian and thus from the overall rise in competitiveness levels, not much remains. This approach to the agripolitical complex of problems specifically raises two issues. First of all, why did agricultural enterprises, agricultural cooperatives and agricultural entities not receive the treatment of commercial registered agricultural holdings when workers and agrarian employees are paid far more contributions to PIO, health insurance than to other producers? Secondly, why did all registered agricultural holdings not get the status of "commercial", although they work for their own needs and the market and pay taxes and contributions and have to be registered by force of the law and by European practice, rather than by principle of volunteering? This is how the key problem of our agrarian policy, which is inherited from earlier periods, is that the social issues of the rural and agricultural population must be addressed in the resources of the economic and social issues of these categories of population, including their social status, PIO, health insurance and general insurance, not agriculture in particular, and everyone else in particular. Since 25.12.2008, the Regulation on the Register of Agricultural Lands has elaborated all the activities of registered agricultural holdings. It introduced a category – commercial and non-commercial agricultural land, creating one exception to the so-called "clean peasant", which holds 15% of active agricultural production, and are the only beneficiaries of agricultural subsidies. This Regulation is unconstitutional, and the definition of "registered agricultural land" is contrary to all scientific and professional concepts in the field of agricultural economy and in the world. Due to the various unfortunate circumstances followed by this activity, and especially because of the ministry's abandonment of the Encouragement Regulation and the improvement of the activity of agricultural cooperatives, and hence by the agribusiness of Serbia's enterprises, many who should not be excluded from the state incentive measures have been excluded. This threw out all agricultural enterprises, cooperatives and 365,000 unregistered agricultural family holdings, or over 75% of Serbia's agrarian facilities. Only because of this unprincipled approach to this problem has there been hopelessness in most of Serbia's villages with elderly residents. Fear and uncertainty prevailed between the cooperatives and the cooperatives, as the support for lending and procurement was lost – diesel fuel, artificial fertilizer, seed goods, chemical resources, small and large machinery, spare parts, etc. Our peasants are no longer protected from the shameful purchase of agricultural products from monopolists, such as: dairy, butchers, coolants, slaughterhouses, shoppers, shoppers and import lobbys. Fear of production, purchase and placement of market surpluses, insecurity for workers' jobs in agribusiness, as well as the uncertainty of the owners of agricultural areas in the system of lending and subsidisation, imposed an extremely difficult status of agrarians, villages and peasants of Serbia, through which they know how to break, implement and treat economic crises and restore society. The stability of agricultural production and the proper long-term subsidy measures gave a two billion dollar surplus from the agrarian and food industries. Instead, the $700m surplus from 2007 has been reduced to $490m in 2008, and it will be good if this year, due to drought, it is $200m. The total foreign trade exchange deficit of 11 billion dollars has eased only agriculture with 4.5% of total debt and no one else. It would be normal to invest far more in the village and peasants, in agriculture and the food industry. This is how we got two cuts in the agrarian budget of 22 and 26%. We threw out all legal persons registered for agricultural and food activities from the right to agrarian subsidies per hectare of area or one wrapped throat. We have reduced the number of registered agricultural holdings by more than 60,000, instead of registering all agricultural production entities on official duty. She's missing what's-his-name. social aid of 40,000 dinars only ten days after the renewal of the registration of agricultural households. It continued its policy for Serbia's Development Fund does not finance the agricultural and food industry in Serbia, and the AP Vojvodina Development Fund is fully properly and justifiably funding and projects from the agrarian and food industries. Why the diversity? Why one state and two systems? With the total drowning of $4.7 billion in grants for subsidies in agriculture, it literally shuts down this very strict, rational, but also the important and useful credit line that we had in agriculture, which has allowed many to produce. We understand the crisis and we understand that we are all in such circumstances, but this activity has to continue. It would be good to compare some of the experiences that are in our environment. For example, Slovenia has been an EU member for six years, has five times less available agrarian resources, and three times the annual social product from agro-privreda. Croatia has twice as many agrarian resources, and three times more agrarian budget than Serbia. This demeaning position of Serbia's agriculture may not be the result of failed reforms, lack of the legislative framework and other reforms, but rather there were no positive and correct privatisations of resuscitally expensive Serbia's agrobusiness companies, such as -- sugars, slaughterhouses, freezers and other "restricts", but were sold cheaply for the needs of some power centres and primates in agrobusiness. Primat is taken over by Croatian and Slovenian regional agrobusiness leaders, such as Agrokor, Perutina, as well as domestic shopping centres such as Idea, Delta, Pevec, Vero and others, who already round the production technology continent from the field to the table at the lowest prices of production, processing and personal income of workers in Europe. If this adds to the defence course of the euro, i.e. the dinar, with 900m euros spent so far, which is exactly three complete agrarian budgets of Serbia, we get the impression that our agrarian is deliberately devasting and devoting himself for the sake of the easier purchase of many interested in Serbia and the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the principle of 15 proposed agrarian laws will give an indicative and critical recording of the current situation in Serbia's agrarian. It must be acknowledged that the long-standing debate under certain draft laws was not even, as some laws are expected for years. However, the debate had to ensure the public and participation of professional, scientific and mass entities from agrarians, food industry and the public. It's inconceivable that none of the so-called. legislative proposals have not been discussed in any of the thematic shows of Serbia's national television. The broad public of Serbia, primarily individual agricultural producers, did not have the pleasure of not speaking at any round or corner table of RTS, all-knowing leaders, with two and a half years behind in a row, of the law on agriculture and the village, of land, agriculture, pensions or at least of rakija and wine. Each of the 15 laws offered will very much tang and produce positive or other consequences for the lives of peasants and their families. Imagine whether French, Italian, Slovenian or some other national television would be so organized that it would not defend and report a discussion in studies or institutions when they passed a law on French cheese or Italian wine, Slovenian beer or Russian vodka. But when Serbia's parliament discusses rakija, national RTS and other media, public critics will not even realize that a session of the Agriculture Committee has been held or that the minister has spoken to the public, but will worry about what peasants and citizens had or did not have as a monitoring service in agrarian. Through television receivers, for which a large television subscription is paid, that is, a television subscription, we were obliged to turn over national television, explain to people and show that the laws are right, good and will benefit them. As television deals with issues that have been raised or not sat down, so far the agrarian is only discussed between peasants and the village. It is fair to acknowledge study B92 and editor and director Zahari Trnavčević and RTV Vojvodina who are making efforts to ensure that the agrarian issues of this country are treated as much as possible and that they are started by general, public, permanent and real debate in time and space that corresponds to the peasant and his family. In today's practice, the development, discussion and adoption of these laws from agrarians showed the presence of major controversy and a large number of problems in agreeing the proposed solutions, such as benefits or negative consequences or damages that would bring to the Serbian agrarian. In order to successfully implement this set of laws on Serbia's agrarians, it was necessary for them to pass the social review of the solutions offered, as well as a review of the relevant European and world directives and conventions in the area of food and our experts and all agricultural production, food and food industries. It is particularly important to adopt these laws in the context of a major economic crisis, when the offer is growing, and the demand is going down, with the rise in the prices of all industrial inputs, with the previously clear distinction of all fundamental issues. The first question of the law on the restitution and return of the country to valid owners is the second issue of the national agrarian policy strategy, the third issue of the cooperative law, the law on renewable energy sources and on the application of agriculture – biomass, bioalcohol, heating with organic waste, biodiesel, solar energy and biogas, wind and water, the question of the process of the production and adoption of the law on irrigation, the question of the agricultural machinery law and the replacement of the system of new and trade in goods. Our country is now economically and economically insufficiently functional. It does not possess a national strategy for good domestic and advanced use of national resources of land, water, plants and animals, but now it has the opportunity to settle issues so far with these first 15 laws in the field of agrarians. The Agriculture and Rural Development Act is proposed on the basis of an already outdated and discriminatory strategy on the development of agriculture from 2005 and without the existence of a national strategy on rural development. The Agriculture Act did not define the status of persons engaged in agriculture and do not have registered agricultural land, thus excluding unregistered agricultural households, which have almost 80% of the number of those involved in total agriculture. There cannot be voluntary registration in the EU, it is a business of chambers of commerce, ministries and states. The fact is that the bill has no expression or legal concept regarding rural development, nor has basic criteria been defined as rural areas in the Republic of Serbia. This year, about 330 thousand agricultural holdings were registered, or 20% less. Full insight into the state and business of registered agricultural households has only local self-government. We find it illogical that the local self-government unit has no agricultural basis for the land it has on its territory. Annual programmes for protection, regulation and use are a practical framework for the development of all agricultural grounds. The bill places a legal person in the territory of units of local self-government in the affairs of giving an opinion on the annual programme. The favouring of natural persons violates the constitutional rights of all legal entities and entities in the agrarian region, and the Commission's unit of local self-government must be bound by the law to give an opinion on the annual programme. The bill did not answer the question of what happens if the local self-government commission adopts the programme by 31 March of the current year, and the local self-government assembly does not accept it. What are further actions, what are further actions, that must be defined. The law misdetermined the obligation to pay the rent in advance, and if all agrarian entities know that income from agricultural production cycles can be expected only after nine months to one year, with the risk of uncertainty of agricultural prices being enormous. The law will have to fully clarify the time of entry into the practical possession of items of leases, the obligation of the tenant and the tenant. The right to double the lease has already experienced hundreds of amendments in the proposed version of the bill. It is necessary to clarify the relationship between the tenants and those employed on the areas concerned most responsibly. The PUPS Group has been intensive in preparing this law to consult with all agricultural and trade union operators, so it proposes a common platform for successful implementation of this law and the most important law in practice; firstly, to establish a fund of state agricultural land for the strategic management of this valuable resource; secondly, to suspend public competition for the lease of agricultural land and to oblige the Ministry to, in cooperation with local self-government, set real prices for the lease of agricultural land in the state property; thirdly, to provide adequate subsidies for each hectare of farm land, i.e. land, i.e. land, and to allocate subsidies to all legal and natural persons in the agrarian on the basis of the regulation to prohibit the work of remaining land complexes in the state property; five, the right to rent for state property, firstly offer to the new owners of the agricultural sector; to offer a large number of agricultural products in the agricultural sector and to the need to give priority to the agricultural sectoral farmers the necessary to the new agricultural sector, to the need to the need to the need to the necessary to the new agricultural property to the farmers in their territory; The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, as Mr. Minister said, was originally announced as a completely new bill and on the site of the ministry marked as a law whose public debate was concluded. In the past two decades of transition changes, no law in the field of agriculture has caused so much controversy, even conflict between brothers in the mother, or fields. How much did the 2006 Agricultural Land Act do? Already in the first year of the application of its provisions on the lease of state agricultural land, numerous unwanted confrontations have been caused between the owners of registered agricultural holdings and workers and managers still unprivitised, i.e. workers and owners of several years ago. Prior to the adoption of these amendments, particular consideration should be given to provisions relating to the management of state agricultural land, whose area will be reduced by the application of the law on the restitution and return of the same former owners, as is now the case with religious communities. I note, I will also use the time of the parliamentary group, briefly. It is very discriminatory to delete the current provisions relating to the production of agricultural grounds for the territory of the city or municipality, as this eliminates the development of elementary ground documentation on land, which is presented for any development or spatial plan of the GUP, the DUP rural development programme, etc. Some proposed changes to the agricultural land law are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as they violate the basic principle by which all economic operators enjoy the same legal position on the market. The Constitution of Serbia, Article 84, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, stresses that all have the same legal position that must be applied. We think that the right to a shorter lease should also be obtained by owners of crops with multi-year exploitation periods, whose land is the basis for reproving with livestock production and processing. The PUPS parliamentary group advocates that one of the conditions of the right to more than one lease be the number of permanent employees per hectare of land. We believe that the state of Serbia must abolish public competition for the lease of agricultural land in state property. One of the most important laws in the set today is the law on food safety. It is a long-awaited and fundamental legal act that would definitely ensure a system of control of the transport of goods and services on the import and export of food. Stable, safe and economical food transport is a national interest, and thus the law itself is determined to establish a non-compromising regulation for food safety at the highest level of expertise and the highest level of responsibility for human and animal health. International conventions in the area of food security are in line with this law, and it is freely said that we are not stopping much from Europe. The national documents and strategy for the development of agriculture from 2005, as well as the action plan, will be strengthened by this law, and the legislative framework for the accession of the Group will finally be completed. However, compliance with EU and Serbian rules is not enough for such a complex law to be applied in a country with unresolved legal economic and technological problems, especially in agrarian. It is necessary and efficient to prescribe activities in determining the conditions for primary production, storage, handling and transport of primary products, live animals, fish, game, foodstuffs, etc. In particular, it is necessary to define the role of all controls – veterinary, phytosanitary, agricultural and laboratory samples for taking and testing samples. The PUPS parliamentary group is deeply aware that there are so far serious problems that must be addressed in walking: firstly, not a uniform food safety system, secondly, a very massive and undefined system of control, the existence and mixing of parallel competences and responsibilities of services and bodies, the lack of food control in all areas from those in which it is produced to those in which it is used, to the kitchen, the complete absence of risk analysis in the production and transport of food. If it is found that there is a lack of general legal responsibility for food safety, both for the manufacturer and for the transporter and consumer, non-synchronised work of laboratories in charge of food safety control, i.e. insufficient filling of food safety entities with the legislation prescribed by professional staff. It is very important that, in the application of this law, we must prevent the absorption of many misinformation about the results of the correctness of the food that the import lobby holds in its hands. It is necessary to create a strategy to protect the right domestic product and to combat unfair price difference and competition. Let's just remember that we've imported broken cheeses, radioactive milk, broken meat, dangerous toys, corrupt meat processing, and no one has responded or been sanctioned. The EU system for rapid attention to non-secure products works effectively and removes harmful health risks, and we must adopt such a system. The food safety law has been being prepared for seven years, as well as the general product safety law, which would significantly improve the market situation and prevent imports of non-quality goods. Gentlemen Ministers, since a huge number of valid, quality, professional amendments have been submitted, we ask you to adopt those who do not comply with the essence, nature and be these laws that have been offered. The United Pensioners' Group of MPs of Serbia will support these laws provided that those amendments that have their strength, legally valid power and technical justification are adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19225	As an authorised representative, you took advantage of the time available to you, and the parliamentary group has three minutes to go. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond, a group of minorities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19226	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to present on behalf of the Members of the SVM our suggestions regarding this item of the agenda, which contains 15 laws relating to agriculture, and most of all regarding the general situation in agriculture. At the beginning of my presentation, I should point out that MPs of the Minority Group support this set of laws and we are pleased that after a long period we have a set of agricultural laws and we hope that these laws will only facilitate the position of our farmers and speed up Serbia's approach to the EU. We believe that the set of laws will improve the position of those Serbian citizens living on agriculture, means agricultural producers. The important thing is that there are laws on the agenda which are our priorities, SVM MPs, because we have a program of our SVM party. Over the past period, we have dealt with agriculture and potential problems several times, we have reacted several times in a way that subsidises agricultural holdings, in a way that registers agricultural land. We talked about problems about buying milk and importing milk powder, and we had a serious problem with tobacco producers. 'I'm interested, we know that some tobacco producers, who produced 'berley' and 'oriental', haven't been paid subsidies for 2008, we know that one regulation is over, I'm interested in what's going on with that regulation and when it's going to be released by the Ministry of Agriculture. I have to say, we've found solutions several times with the Ministry of Agriculture. Mr Minister, I should also tell you that we SVM MPs believe that the Ministry of Agriculture is currently on a better path than it was in previous years. We believe there is more effort, more will in you than in your predecessors. However, I also have some disagreements, and we have some demands, which we consider to be natural. Of course, we can't agree on all the questions. We have a feeling that there is agriculture in Belgrade, unfortunately, only before the election, but I draw your attention to the fact that SVM MPs, who come exclusively from the agricultural environment, are a priority. We always draw your attention, Mr. Minister, to this and ask you to elect the Ministry of Agriculture for as much funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget as possible. I also have some information about the previous years. For example, in 2001 the total agricultural budget was 4.06%, in 2004, it was 5.33%, in 2006, 5.14%, and now agriculture is 2.92% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. We find that very bad. We have repeatedly drawn attention to the fact that when we talk in Serbia about the global economic crisis, we can say that in our country it affects agriculture, or agricultural producers. We all know that most of the exports come from agricultural production, only agricultural products can compete with countries in the environment. We SVM representatives believe that Serbia is the only possible way to overcome this crisis, to invest as much money in agriculture as possible. These are the only products that we can safely export and compete with them on the EU market and beyond. If we start and improve agricultural production, it will affect the processing industry, trade and other industries. In agriculture, we see very important and necessary state support in building the structure of economic business. The fragmented little peasant land, which has been exploited for decades by the state, should replace the farmers' land, but not at all costs. Most of our agricultural life is poor and old and unfortunately some have become social cases. We are in favour of such measures that will prevent the material destruction of rural land and help their restructuring towards efficient production systems, preparing them for the challenges of competition on the European market. In agriculture particularly, but also in other industries, we demand that monopolies be purchased, either in the provision of production funds. We believe you've achieved something on this matter. The Ministry of Agriculture is on its way. You have our support on this matter. The government's obligation is to provide a transparent and controlled, clean competition. Also, the agriculture ministry should advocate the creation of stable and calculating price and income quality. Our program puts a special accent on improving the quality of life and life chances for those living in the country, thus improving the strength of our villages and settlements to preserve life. We demand a full return of property, i.e. total compensation in the case of land, mills and other property related to agriculture. We believe that the Ministry of Agriculture needs to work a lot more and start this topic. The SVM aims to increase the social security of agricultural producers, to improve the quality of life of the rural population, to eliminate monopolies, to create stable relations and price parities and the quality of certain agricultural products. It is our priority to adopt such a set of laws that will prevent the use of suspicious capital in the purchase of agricultural land, which, in accordance with EU rules, will protect small holdings and make it impossible for large-scale land to be built up, to introduce a system of accounting and distribution of subsidies for agricultural producers based on farmland, according to European standards. We are in favour of providing state resources for the construction of processing and storage facilities by the Vojvodina agricultural producers associated in the modern forms of cooperatives. We asked the Ministry of Agriculture to re-examine the granting system of state-owned agricultural land and to change it in a way that, instead of speculators, those involved in agricultural production as primary work. By supplementing the Agricultural Land Act, we believe that we will solve this problem, although we will see how it will work in practice and on the ground. We ask you to charge the unpaid rents for state agricultural land in as short a time as possible and to bring them to court. Unfortunately, we have information that only in some municipalities are charged. We are committed to establishing a farm advisory service at the village level. The Union of Duke Hungarians has a program with a network of these services, that is, offices. This works well in some municipalities, so we want the Ministry of Agriculture to allocate funds to advise farmers and we demand that, instead of new advisory offices, the Ministry assists those who have been functioning for years, i.e. to include our advisory services in the Advisory Service of the Ministry of Agriculture. We ask for products purchased by the state without delay and for state and international sources to be provided for the promotion of organic agricultural production, wine growing, fruit growing and bioproduct production and to be properly distributed. We would like to encourage in particular the production of plants used as raw materials for bioenergy and to provide specific, agricultural and food products representing the duchy Hungarian protection and to obtain a quality certificate. Members of the SVM have already reacted and informed the public several times when there have been elemental disasters. We requested that agricultural producers, threatened by elemental disasters, receive appropriate assistance immediately after the damage occurred. We believe that the Ministry of Agriculture should keep track of the situation on the ground. There is currently a large drought in Vojvodina, and farmers are already assessing the damage. I wonder if the Ministry of Agriculture has taken action on this matter. I have some data here – in April in the north of Backa, only 13 millimeters of rain per square meter fell, and in May not so much. Our experts estimate that the damage to cereals will be between 30% and 50%. If there is no rain within two weeks, there will be problems with both corn and sugar tail. The drought, of course, is not as big as it was in 2007, but it's still worrying. This elemental disaster will also affect people who are engaged in warfare, livestock and fruit growing. In places in the northern Vojvodina, it would be good if the government reacted as soon as possible. I think the Ministry of Agriculture should react as quickly as possible, because otherwise these laws that we're going to discuss are worth nothing. If our farmers won't have their own products, they won't have anything to put into public storage, they won't have enough funds to rent agricultural land, etc. We know that on the market we can determine that Vojvodina gives from agriculture 70 to 80% of products, and the rest of the country only 20 to 30%. When we know it's a global economic crisis, I believe that the state must not forget our farmers and should monitor the situation on the ground. Another problem on the ground, according to the State Employment Service, is that so far from September to December of last year, more specifically in 2008, 8% of people have lost their jobs in agriculture, forestry and water industry. We believe that the main causes of this problem are unpaid subsidies and the way subsidies are granted and a Regulation on the registration of agricultural land. It is important for us that you provide every agricultural producer with the same conditions for production. We think all manufacturers are the same. I'm interested in how much debt the Ministry of Agriculture still has and how much subsidy was not paid in 2008. There is another serious problem regarding rural areas, related to the law on agriculture and rural development, which I want to talk about more because I come from the rural area of Serbia. In rural areas, primarily in villages, the life of the population depends primarily on agriculture and in the village each other is tied to one branch of agricultural production. Because of the constant problems in agriculture in the last two decades in Serbia, young people leave rural households because they have no conditions, or motivation to stay in rural areas due to poor and insecure conditions in agriculture. This problem cannot be solved in this way by agriculture. If we wait and don't do something to keep young people in the country, then in another two decades we'll totally destroy our agriculture, especially in small areas, where and now there's a problem with the workforce. Mostly in rural households are old peasants who are unable to process their own land. A lot of land is sold and most of all in rural areas. As regards not only this law, but also for this law, I am registering agricultural land, and I am particularly interested in registering non-commercial agricultural land and subsidies, supporting non-commercial agricultural land. We know that during the campaign, the president of the state, Boris Tadic, promised agricultural producers, old people that he would receive support of 50,000 dinars. Now that regulation has been abolished, I have asked a parliamentary question in the previous phase and I have not yet received an answer, I am interested in what they will get and whether they can count in what form of state they can count on. If we talk about the current state in the country, we can point out that in Serbia there are no more than 200 villages under the age of 20. At least 190 villages have no inhabitants. In rural areas, we have more than 260,000 inhabitants who are over 50 years old and those are single men. In villages in 86% of cases, population numbers are constantly reduced and only 14% or stagnated or slightly increased. I can give you an example of the Vojvodina village of Pacir, from which I come, where there are about 3,000 inhabitants, last year there were 45 people born, not to count the young people who left the village and not only to live in the city, but also to go abroad. If this trend continues, only old people will remain in Vojvodina and Serbia in villages. Statistics suggest that there is no development strategy in agriculture and there are no new generations to inherit agricultural land. The Ministry of Agriculture, if it is a real strategy, must in no way abandon these facts, and the strategy must be entered by a rural development programme, which could improve the situation in the villages. We even believe that a rural development strategy is not only sufficient, but should provide for funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget to finance young agricultural producers, which could, with the means provided, form and develop their own ownership that has guaranteed stability in agriculture. Unfortunately, there is no stability in agriculture. Young people expect the Ministry of Agriculture to guarantee that they can live off their efforts. Unfortunately, there is no security in agriculture at the moment, and we believe that this is solely due to the work of previous agriculture ministries, and you should do a lot of work on this issue. Registered farmers should be allocated funds for a child's allowance for at least one year. I should also draw your attention to the fact that in some cases farmers are women, and unfortunately, they do not even have the right to maternity leave. I think the Ministry of Agriculture should take special care of young people on agricultural land, keep young people in the country. The agriculture ministry should potentiate the survival of young people in the country and must in particular stimulate as many children as possible to be born in rural areas, in order to remain a healthy environment in villages. In this case, I think they have special attention to women in agriculture. These were just some of the topics we wanted to single out in the principle debate on the agricultural law set. I think we should not only discuss the laws, if they are representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, but we should talk about the general situation in agriculture and through the debate to try to address some lacks of law and shortages in agriculture. We believe that the situation in agriculture cannot only be improved through the law, but the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government must be together, through regulations and through individual solutions, to improve the conditions of our farmers. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the Parliamentary Group of Minorities will support this set of laws, and the objections and suggestions related to the other laws will be presented in a further debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19227	The word has a minister, Sasha Dragin. Saša Dragin: First of all, I would like to thank Mr Stamenkovic for the constructive debate, or Mr Arpad Fremond, and I would like to ask about their debate on a few questions that were asked to answer. As for the number of agricultural holdings, I can say that their numbers over the past year have not been so reduced, with 420 thousand being reduced to 333 thousand. I can say that, as we discussed once on the Committee on Agriculture, a large number of these landowners were fictitious, more precisely, people living in cities were buying countries and registering land just to get money from the state. What I can also say is that the area covered by subsidies has not been significantly reduced. As for support for agricultural enterprises, this administration believes that people who have thousands and thousands of hectares do not have to get additional incentives from the state, for the simple reason that incentives from the state are reserved for those who need the aid most, and these are farmers who have below 100 hectares of agricultural land. I would also say, as far as the regulations concerning these two tobacco varieties are concerned, that the regulation has been made and that it is in the opinion, so, as agreed, it will go. As for non-commercial holdings, I can say that for the first time this year, one newspaper was introduced, which is that pensioners can also register as profitable owners, but also receive about 30% of the funds as other holdings and thus enable them to receive funds, which is about that ratio of funds as you mentioned. In addition, I would like to say that the national agriculture programme exists from 2009 to 2011. We thought it was unserious to make it on a longer deadline, for the simple reason that we do not know the exact dates related to European integration, while you know that in a public debate and rural development strategy of the Republic of Serbia from the ninth to the thirteenth year, we are thus entering a group of countries that are important to this sector. What is particularly important to stress, it is very important that some institutions that are defined through some laws, above all, think of the agency for agrarian payments that has been defined through the law on agriculture and rural development, are set up, because that is how we will enable ourselves to attract funds from European funds. Only in the area of rural development, because of the inability to attract EU funds through the Agrarian Payments Agency, our country will lose between 50m and 100m euros annually, unless we do so. The word has been made by MP Velimir Ilic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19229	Dear President, Mr. Minister, I am surprised that the ruling coalition has today shown that this parliament is totally collapsing and that such important topics are being followed by so few MPs that more of you from the Ministry than we are. Look, it's a very interesting situation, that there's no interest in media, anything, the 15 laws on agriculture are being passed, it's revolutionary for agriculture for Serbia, it's something that needs to destroy us cleanly or run us somewhere. Through the budget, we've seen through the rebalancing that there's no financial basis for it, it doesn't exist. Mr. Minister, how could you let the budget rebalance and the agriculture ministry go so badly in the budget, and you knew you had 15 laws that needed something in Serbia to change. I listened to a gentleman from PUPS and I totally agree with his discussion, but the man voted for such a budget and a rebalancing that would devalue all this, freaks, ruin it. I agree with his discussion, but in the end he said – I will still vote for some party discipline. Of course, the Hungarian representative who spoke, I expected him to say – we will not support this, we cannot support this. You had to take this law off the agenda until it passed normal procedure, first parent committee. Is it possible for agriculture to come to parliament without any discussion on the parent board, not to talk about a campaign that was to be run through state media? You don't have time. Every day we play a game, we follow a shoe, everything is alive, agriculture is the least important. People just have a little fun. You know where that leads? It leads the state to one anarchy, one failure. We have a little party every night, and it's all a little bit more than that, but this is the least important. Did you, Mr. Minister, find it appropriate to come an hour to explain to the citizens of Serbia what this is about? This is revolutionary for Serbia. How can you get into a story like this without letting at least be a double-time debate? Fifteen laws from agriculture to unite into one continent, you know how our people say that, to scrabble and to pass that little Neca or some other boys there would run into the morning program and take a pillow, here we are pushing 30 laws successfully, we have introduced parliament in order. You can pass 5,000 laws, but you have a problem with agriculture. You can't solve it like this. You'll have it now, in the next day, raspberries, what can you tell them? How do you explain it to them? They'll come back here in the same place. How do you deal with the Customs Mafia because it's once covered up? You know, thousands of tons of meat in Serbia is being introduced through Kosovo, the meat of the unquality from South America. You know that well, chicken comes from Brazil. These individuals are used with various connections by throwing meat into Serbia, who is reacting to it? Everybody knows that, can you stop the Customs Mafia already? There have been attempts and everything has stopped. Therefore, there is no way to discuss this, and in the meantime Serbia dies, the village dies, the peasant is no longer powerless, there is no power. Of the 17 villages in the Kosovo border zone on the Serbian side, there are no residents, no students. 17 schools are closed and it goes on. There isn't. You're talking - the stock fund. What's the stock fund? Where is he? Did you know that your predecessor's colleague ran a major campaign to get heifers of high milkiness, at 2,300 euros. The village of Grivac, I remember, at Knic, hundreds of villages, peasants rushed, bought, imported, took loans, gave mortgages, milk was 34 dinars, now milk fell to 13 dinars, and no one will do it again, 17 was not long ago. These heifers of high milk are given to slaughter. Here, the man around Lazarus 120 bought it, doesn't know where he's going, what he's going to do with himself. So, what's the safety, what are the guarantees? You gentlemen from the ruling coalition are just smiling, of course, a few of you. This may be a party for you to sit down and talk to your boss tonight – here, we passed the debate in principle. What will be of these laws, as well as of some previous ones? We're just talking, we're adapting to the EU, so in 2015, I followed your one in your coalition this morning who was a guest of the Morning Programme and explained, around 2015, it's expected, as it would be realistic, to join the EU. Will the peasant live to be in 2015? Thousands of villages will be empty. Did you know that Serbs in the heart of Serbia, a village household that has been created for centuries, are now being sold from 5,000 to 10,000 euros? That's the same thing in Vojvodina. You had an offer in Međi, you had an offer in Banat – 5,000 euros sold the entire village household. People give up on it. The tycoons bought, waited for some price, to rip up, etc. How to stop buying monopolies and they're monopolies, the only ones who can export and hold a full ransom in Serbia? You can't stop them? Why? Because it's a party state and if there's a party in power, you can do whatever you want. You can be as monopolies as much as you want. You'll get the ransom money and the only one holding the monopoly. Therefore, please visit Serbian villages. I recently invited you to come and see how this village lives, how that people live. All the loading sites are empty, thousands of roads across Serbia are empty. I remember Stočar, who held all of middle Serbia, had the capacity of an abnormally large, right now, everything is empty, everything is empty, there's nowhere to see one June in tova. So, the peasant slowly surrenders. You are entering with 15 laws totally unprepared, without any consultation. This is the topic he had to discuss the parent board, the parties, everyone to engage, to launch a broad action to bring this back to life and, of course, survive. But none of this is going to happen, and this is going to be something to brag about how many laws we've written, adopted, etc. What about the premiums that were supposed to be given for 2008? Nothing. They're not given. The villagers are calling me now, texting me, asking when. What about some pensions, just stories, one empty story, etc.? Do you realize one thing, with this kind of policy, there can't be a Serb village. What do we have for exporting right now? How many dry plums can Serbia export in 2009? How much? What is the capacity of our droughts? Do you have that information? You don't. How much meat can we export to the EU, which is being destroyed by talking more? Nothing, and we're importing everything. Look at our "Maxie" discountes, these big ones, whose stuff is in there? It's a side. What about PIC Takova? It's completely destroyed. Whose Euro creams and chocolates and everything else in there? It's all foreign, it's all from imports. What about the processors? What about "The Buddha," can you handle it? What about "Serbian"? What about the syrups we were exporting to Russia? Nothing. It's all stopped and one big disaster is expected and every day it gets worse and worse. You make laws, we waste time, we sit here and there's nothing. What can you buy this season? What warehouse can we pack this in? (Hope Kolundzija throws Velimir Ilic out of place. What? Mrs. Kolundjia, please be polite. You're a lady, well-trained and well-sit in that front row and you're too happy to call your boss tonight, say that this is adopted and that 15 laws are being made there, but the Serbian peasant will only have trouble and trouble and misery from those 15 laws, and he won't be able to solve it. This poor congregation that has to put up with all this. You're capable of attacking people, accusing people without any arguments, if that's the interest of your political group. You never found it appropriate to do something good for this country. Everything you do, you do the party and I repeat it here. You've done me a lot of evil, Mrs. Kolundjia, and you're doing everyone harm. You're doing Serbia evil, and that's why you're being held here, and while you've been at Covic's, and now, and always. So I repeat, behave yourself when I speak and be polite, don't throw from the scene. I warn you not to do it anymore. So, not to be too long, I'm going to continue this afternoon, or in some other term, because it really doesn't make sense to whisper deaf and wink. We'll tell you our story, you'll hear. Here, your spokesman Dinkic has already come out and said "good days are coming for agriculture". This morning he boasted the IMF was injecting money, all moving, businessmen getting money with shovels, everything will be in the best order, the crisis is over, there's no crisis, etc., and if we fail, we fail. So sit down and decide what you want with this Serbia. Do you have a solution or not? Do you have a solution for the Serb village and agriculture or do you not? If you don't have it, say, call the election and let some of the others finish it. If you have a solution, gentlemen, you work, you work, Mr. Minister. Do something, cheer us up that you paid premiums, cheer us up that he started buying milk, that the monopolies will no longer blackmail the producers of the conditioning products and say – if you don't buy milk powder from me, I won't buy you anything in my sales capacity. Give us something, but realistically, be realistic and true. Something that will come to life tomorrow, which tomorrow some peasant out there in Serbia or in Vojvodina will feel better. Where is the money from the dikes that were given, set aside for Vojvodina? Where were they spent? Are the embankments made to defend against the floods? What happened to the Banat water supplies? What happened to the funds allocated to agriculture so far? Nothing. I remember when she was Dulicka, she taught in the villages. Imagine, giving a lecture at my place, my peasants, planting a plum. They plant plums all their lives and it holds them, educates them to plant, and no one will buy that plum. She fell asleep on eight dinars. The question is, will there be eight dinars this year? You broke your relationship with the Russians, when they came in one year and bought it, and you improved the country's situation a little bit. So consider whether the state has a perspective where two bags of artificial fertilizer are one ar forest land. Was that ever in history? Where is tractor Universal, double, ordinary tractor, 20 ha forest land. How can a peasant survive, explain it to me. What's to put in a mortgage? His entire household isn't worth half the tractors at these prices. So, Mr. Minister, think about it, talk to your associates, strengthen your teams, do something, but be specific. Rejoice us, come here to parliament and say "this law has been applied, this has been resolved, no more imports of chicken meat from Brazil." What about our chicken producers? It doesn't work nearly any. And this little thing that's been doing, it's ruined. What about this stuff? What about milk producers? Rejoice us and say that the production is moving, it's going to be something. Here's your first chance with the raspberries. You solve that problem. Don't come in front of the government again. People have fallen apart, they're asleep, they're coming, they're going around, they're breaking the thresholds, and we're just stifling the laws, because Europe is "mad" without us, they can't live, they can't sleep unless we bring all these laws by spring. What about the white Schengen visa? They say there's nothing again. Did you hear what the president said? "Don't ask me about the date anymore." And on joining the EU, don't ask me about the year. But you make laws. If anyone survives, they'll talk about what it was like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19230	The time is at the disposal of the parliamentary group at 4.30 minutes. On the basis of a direct reference, the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19231	Your Honor, I'll talk about the laws myself a little bit later. I just wanted to say that I did respond, with nothing simple, because it doesn't look like me, but there's a story here that, if a man thinks, is essentially completely pointless. So when the laws come, then they say "where have the laws been so far", and that's what those who have been government for four and a half years say. When the problem is solved, then they start to list all the problems, and they forget, and they just got out of the government and kept quiet for a few years about these problems. When, after ten months, this government comes with the most comprehensive so far, a set of agriculture-related laws, showing that it really understands how important agriculture is for Serbia, then they say "what these laws will do to you, because they will not apply anyway and will not respect". It was simply my reaction that, at the very least, it was unfair to stand up like that, first of all, bearing in mind the fact that it was said by a man who was in the government until yesterday. I understand when he says the laws aren't necessary because he said "why should I apply the law when it's not good".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19232	National MP Miroslav Markicevic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19233	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating Article 27. I think by this member of the Rules of Procedure, by which we are working here, you are required to take care of order and dignity in the Assembly. I don't dispute Mrs. Kolundji's right to have a replica and to discuss the laws, but from what she said, it's obvious from the first sentences that she broke her dignity and order in the assembly. She said herself she threw it away, and you didn't warn her. I'm asking you to do it right now, because there's really no dilemma right now. She said in the first three sentences herself that she reacted from the scene and threw away. So be the same to all MPs. If you warn some of them of silence, of order in the O.R., of peace, that order was in the O.R. until Mrs. Kolundjia broke it and began to throw it to Mr. Ilic. Please respond to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19234	Thank you. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'd react, but you asked to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. So, as with any other MP, I first warn that it is against the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and I also warn Hope Kolundji not to do so. She herself sought the right to a replica and explained the reason for the replica between MP Velimir Ilic and her. If she had repeated her violation of the Rules of Procedure, she would have been warned, like any other MP, but she didn't, for now. If there is a breach of the Rules of Procedure during the session, of course a warning will be made. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, who wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19235	So, you hurt the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Comic, when you did not warn Mrs. Nada Kolundzija, who commented on the discussion of an opposition MP as unworthy. You can get away with it, I can't get away with it. You are trying anyway, from the ruling majority, to undermine the reputation of this National Assembly and to make it appear that only we, MPs, are guilty of a bad situation in society at all. Just start declaring our objections to the laws dishonest and we'll get far. So, if you do not have reason to remind Mrs. Kolundji that she was throwing away while the other MP spoke, so you have found her an excuse, please find me an excuse for her expression used according to the discussion of the other MP – that the motive of the discussion is dishonest. I really object as an MP to whom it could be one day intended and perhaps I would react differently than Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19236	If you make an insight into the stenogram, you will see that I first give each MP a warning, and then a warning. If you send discussions to all MPs, you will also see that I listen carefully and follow that what the MP or MP is saying does not go beyond the measure of good taste, nor to be a violation of the rules of the Rules of Procedure, but to remain free of speech and interpretation for each MP. There is no difference between members of the ruling majority in the Assembly now or at any time, and members of the opposition, except it doesn't always seem that way. I repeat, the MP would receive a warning anyway, whether intervened by MP Miroslav Markicevic or not, or whether you intervened. No one has received a warning measure while I chaired, and you can also identify it with a stenogram without warning that it does not violate any of the rules of the Rules of Procedure. If you want to open a circle of replicas about whether the MP has the right to qualify for an epithet of someone's motive, of course I am at your disposal, as well as in cases where there is a request for a replica of any other motive. National MP Slobodan Maras wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19237	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the ministry, Mrs. Comic, you have convinced all Serbian citizens, it is certain that you know the best of this Rules of Procedure. But you have also convinced the citizens of Serbia that you do not always apply it in a way that corresponds to the knowledge of this Rules of Procedure. Please do not warn again on the stenogram, because in the stenogram and the stenogram we will see that you have warned Mrs Nada Kolundji, who really did throw it to Mr Ilic, only when MP Markicevic responded. Mrs. Komic, Article 27, then Article 105 on the order of the National Assembly session, the President of the National Assembly, Article 106, is not required to give notice, but you only did so when MP Markicevic responded. That's the point. You do not apply the Rules of Procedure, which you know very well, always according to the same arches and to the MPs of the opposition and the positions. I believe Mrs. Kolundji didn't mean anything by it. I didn't hear exactly what she threw, she did. Of course, Mr. Ilic, as he is, reacted and extended his discussion for five minutes because of the reaction. I don't think I agree with what Mrs. Kolundzija said that Mr. Ilic was four and a half years in the government, so he didn't point out these problems. That's not the point. The point is that you warned Mrs Kolundji only after Mr Markic's reaction. This is not a relationship to this congregation in the way that you have convinced us for a long time to have it, to treat everyone the same way and to strictly apply the Rules of Procedure. Please note, too, that you only reacted when Mr. Markicevic warned you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19238	Two minutes. Thank you. I can only repeat the answer to Mr Markicevic, and try to leave out to remind you that you cannot make the same remark twice and that it also says in the Rules of Procedure. The right for an MP to get word of injury to the Rules of Procedure is the right that in this case had a championship. To be warned that MP Miroslav Markicevic has registered or not, you can either take my word for it or not. A warning would be given. If I had heard clearly what the contents of what was obtained, I would have reacted at that time and interrupted Mr. Velimir Ilic. The only reason I didn't hear what was said was because of his reaction. That was why I didn't interrupt Mr. Velimir Ilic... (Free Marash, from the scene): What difference does it make what she said? ). I received information from Mr. Velimir Ilic's exposure that he was given something. That's why the MP wasn't warned immediately. I can't say the measures based on someone telling me someone did something, otherwise there'd be a lot more words in this congregation than what I hear. If I had heard, you would have been warned at the same time, and Mr. Velimir Ilic, with my apologies, was interrupted. From what he was saying, it was clear that she had thrown something at him. That's when she asked for the word, she got word to explain, after which you asked for the word to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and I said I warn her not to do it again and again, if she breaks today's session, she'll get a warning. There is no difference in the application of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19239	I'm referring to Article 103. Rules of Procedure. You guys like to have a long time with people's...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19240	National MP, member of 103, regulates the debate about the need to discuss the agenda. It's in progress. Therefore, there is no breach of Article 103, as Article 103 states that the MP has an obligation to speak of matters that are on the agenda. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. (Zoran Nikolic: You're wrong. You can't contact the Rules of Procedure if you point to an injury that doesn't exist. Article 103 regulates... (Zoran Nikolic: You are making material lies... ) Article 103 regulates the obligation of the Members to speak on the subject on the agenda. (Zoran Nikolic: What does Section 2 say? Please take your place. You want a word with the Rules of Procedure again? Here you go. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19241	I refer to Article 103(2). This is outrageous and unheard of what you do to the messengers of the people and to the people's congregation...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19242	National MP, please read the position of the member you are calling upon, so that there is no confusion as to why you have no right to violate the Rules of Procedure, neither you nor I. (Zoran Nikolic: I have no obligation to quote. ) So you called on Article 103 at the moment I told you you had no right to speak, because you cannot abuse the Rules of Procedure. Article 103 says: “The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. ” That member and attitude has not been violated, as at this time everyone is talking about the agenda, the circle of replicas and rights based on Article 100 is also given by the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 2 of Article 103 states: “No one can interrupt a speaker or warn him except the President of the National Assembly in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. ” Neither was that attitude broken, at any point during the session, and just before you answered the word. You cannot abuse the provisions of article 100... (Zoran Nikolic: Item 3) You are now dropping out of place – Article 103, paragraph 3. People's MP, I warn you to respect your own right to the word and to the National Assembly. You have no right to speak. Thank you. (Zoran Nikolic: According to the Rules of Procedure. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? People's MP, you've been warned that you're misusing article 100 and right to word. If you'd like to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, please sign into the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19243	I'm aware that I'm going to get a severe sentence from your side, and trust me, I'm also wishing for it. The penalty you measure is the measure of democracy and intolerance in this congregation. So if I call Article 103(2), then allow me...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19244	People's MP, you can't appeal to a provision that describes a situation that doesn't happen at the session. Thank you. (Zoran Nikolic: I will report to the Rules of Procedure all the time until... People's Messenger, I give you a warning. (Zoran Nikolic: According to the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to speak. National MP, disrupt the order of the National Assembly session, you are in violation of Article 104. You are obliged to treat respect for your own rights and the rights of the other Members. You try several times to abuse the right to the word in Article 100. You don't know which member to quote. You don't know what kind of attitude a member should quote. You've been warned not to do that. You continue to try to present that it is a ban on freedom of speech. No, it's the application of Article 27, taking care of order at the National Assembly session. You have no right to violate the order of the National Assembly. Thank you. (Zoran Nikolic: According to the Rules of Procedure. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? When was the breach of the Rules of Procedure that you wish to call? (Zoran Nikolic: Let me say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19245	I appeal to Article 100(1): "The MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, or the chairman of the National Assembly, in this case it is you, although I can see that you are eager to be president too, "if he considers that it does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at a session of the National Assembly which is in progress and immediately after the injury has been done". Can I have a word and ask you not to interrupt me? So here you have repeatedly violated the Rules of Procedure. First of all, you were explaining and relevant colleagues, Markic, saying that you would punish Mrs. Nada Kolundzija for throwing...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19246	People's MP, please read the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's not complicated. They describe both mine and your obligations. You have no right to speak of the violation of the Rules of Procedure already brought forth by another MP. That's not the basis to get the word. It is the basis for me to tell you that you abuse the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and ask you not to do so, since that is how you disrupt order at the session of the National Assembly. Thank you. (Zoran Nikolic: How do you know what I was going to say? ) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Maras, authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group. (Zoran Nikolic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19247	Madam Vice President, I've called in the Rules of Procedure. I pressed my button here with a request to talk about the breach of Rules of Procedure - Rule 104. But, Mrs. Comic, I don't need to convince you how much I have understanding and respect for you, and as a person who deals with politics, and yourself. Now you're wrong, you're wrong, Mrs. Comic. Article 103: "In the course of the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, no delay is allowed". Mrs. Comic, I find it scandalous that you did not understand what Mrs. Kolundzija said, so you did not react. In Article 106, it states that the notice is given to the MP if he interrupts the speaker in his presentation or throws it away. It doesn't say the content of the throw and you know it, don't insist on it now, we're wasting an hour. We all agree here that these are extremely important laws. Look how many people have come from the Ministry, see what Minister Dragin is doing, the maltenes of each MP is responding, actively taking part in the debate. This is going great, but what you're doing right now is really wrong. I believe you'll get a round of applause from all of us, admit it, made a mistake. Mrs. Kolundji was throwing away, you had to react, not wait for the MPs to point out that. There's a mistake and there's your failure. I hope you accept that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19248	If we had listened carefully to what I had said to Ambassador Miroslav Markic, then we would have seen that the thing you wanted had already happened and that I had told MP Miroslav Markic that I would have warned Nad Kolundzija that I had heard it, no matter what I had thrown away, and that I would have said the warning first and after that. Please let us listen a little more carefully. I'm the first one ready to say when it's a mistake to make a mistake. All MPs are equal in their rights and duties, and as I tell the opposition's MP the first warning, when I hear he throws it, not when he tells me he throws it away, it will also apply to the MPs of the ruling majority, whoever they are. I called MP Slobodan Maraš for his turn, and according to the list of speakers registered as authorised representatives. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19249	Vice-President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry, Mr Dragin, all my predecessors in front of other political parties have brought out a lot of what you have agreed with yourselves, which is likely to be agreed by everyone in this room and we can talk about it for days. Unfortunately, we're not in a position to do anything like that. I have to draw attention, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, to one inadmissible thing and which, of course, I don't mind you from the Ministry, because it's not your job. Your job is to deliver the laws to the Assembly, but the president of the Assembly is obliged to deliver materials to all MPs. I really think it's unacceptable for these 15 laws to have laws that the president of the Agriculture Committee has not seen. I must remind you, Mrs. Comic, of Article 79, which you certainly know, that the Committee must discuss certain laws. It is pointless for them to come to the congregation hall, or to start discussing them, and the Committee has not seen them. The president of the Committee did not get the materials in his hands. I think it's inadmissible, and I hope this is the last time something like this happens. I fully understand the desire for these laws to be put into practice as soon as possible, to be adopted and to hopefully start to apply. These 15 laws that are in front of us, I have to admit, and that we LDP think it's very good that they're in front of us right now, if it was good luck, we'd have found each other a lot sooner, but it's not up to you. The first time you came to the Agriculture Committee, Mr. Dragin, I wasn't the only member of the opposition who expressed confidence that you as minister would do your best. By the way, I don't want to abuse it, but we know each other personally, and I know your qualities, and I'm deeply convinced that you have a very strong desire to succeed in the work you're doing. Unfortunately, thanks to something Mr Ilic spoke about, which is a few years ago the distribution of prey after the election, if I may say so, or the division of ministries between political parties, you have inherited one situation left by the ministers who have changed. I believe that if they asked any agricultural producer and citizens, they wouldn't know who did less. I know, at least Mr. Milosavljevic, your predecessor and party colleague did. He absolutely didn't do anything for agriculture. It's a shame he's a minister again, but we're not going that way now. As for Mr. Bubal, the consequences of his actions, and you spoke earlier, and also the predecessors of Mr. Bubal, Mr. Zivkov, and especially Mrs. Ivana Dulic-Markovic, have done a lot of things that have led to this situation where we are – that we have terrible monopolies, that we have a gentleman who has tremendously large possessions, that we have various associations that have pluses, minuses called... So I have to say, the problem is that the Ministry of Agriculture from the government to the government was the prey of a party, and in this way they tried to keep certain promises to those who supported the election process, as well as to meet the needs of those who are members of certain parties. I am deeply convinced that you will not make mistakes and I hope, I cannot say that I am deeply convinced, but I sincerely hope that you will not make mistakes of your predecessors and that you will not allow your affection for a particular party holding that ministry to be crucial in many matters when it comes to this ministry. What I have to blame you for, that's what you've allowed, and here I find you responsible very much, for the 2009 budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, or the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, to be so reduced. I understand how many parties in the government he's asking for. We got one, but you had to fight harder. I think that we would have the support of a great deal of the public, for the simple reason that more of these laws, I deeply hope, I have a deep faith, that not only are we needed to comply with European legislation, the essence should be the development of agriculture. I'm afraid these laws, or the situation we're in, are about the survival of agriculture. I know you're aware of that, I know you're in the field a lot, and I know you talk a lot to farmers, and I know you're trying to find solutions. It's very difficult, you have a reduced budget, I believe you don't have much support from the other ministers when it comes to your area. You're one of the few ministers I can say I don't want to be in his shoes in the situation he's in. You've got a tough job ahead of you. For every law that gives hope to farmers that you can move forward, you will have the support of the LDP, as well as every time we have before us laws that are primarily in the public interest of all citizens. There are a few things I wanted to tell you. The problem is that in Europe, and I'm sure you all know that agriculture in the last half century is really developing. With us, of course, unfortunately, it's a very different situation. In the past, the aim was to increase food production, and now the aim is to control excess production and above all over-consuming costs in the conservation of the environment. Unfortunately, we are in Serbia, despite the involvement of another ministry despite your engagement, far from it. What I find even more problematic, which I would like to say, is that I find it somewhat illogical that any subsidy depends on, how well I understand it, and I hope I am, on whether farmers, or farmers, have fulfilled their obligations to the state. We know very well that it is a country that, we can say, is decades late in its implementation of its obligations to agricultural producers and I know that you know how difficult their position is, and I know that, although it is said about agricultural loans, it is very difficult to reach them. There's a lot, given the circumstances, I know people who have applied and waited months for a positive or negative answer. They applied for certain loans and for certain projects related to agriculture. What else could be done to ease the situation of agricultural producers? Perhaps a slight change in tax policy, especially when it comes to inputs in agriculture that the manufacturer must pay in advance. Perhaps it wouldn't be bad for a farmer to sort of ease this situation firsthand. There's a large number of farmers who are very difficult, and we all agree, and I don't want to say this like any kind of demagogue, we all know, it's generally hard for all of us, but for agricultural producers probably the most. I just wanted one more thing, I don't want to be too long. You just said, if I understand correctly, that 330,000 agricultural holdings are registered. The municipal board of LDP Palilula, also the City Committee of Nisa, and Vladic's Han, sent a letter to your ministry asking them to obtain accurate information on the number of holdings in their municipality, or city. The response, signed by Assistant Minister Milos Milovanovic, dated 9.3.2009, says that the established database of registered agricultural holdings can only be used for the purposes of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and cannot be used for other purposes. I'd only like it if you could explain to us, if it's no secret that you have 330,000 registered, why is it a problem to get in a certain municipality or city information on the number of agricultural holdings in that municipality or city? The rest of the time as an authorised representative will be used in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19250	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19251	I would like to refer to the debate of Mr Ilic's People's MP and the discussion of Mr Maraš's MP. Although Mr Ilic was the first to discuss it, I will refer first to Mr Maraš's discussion, since Mr Ilic, and even though he resented his fellow MPs, which is more present than the MPs, he is not in the O.R. himself, so he cannot hear the answer, so I sincerely hope that he will show up in the O.R. until I finish answering the question to Mr Maras. First of all, thank you for your support, Mr. Marash. As for the exact number of landowners, I apologize, you will receive a summary report for the given municipalities, it is definitely a failure of the ministry, and once again I apologize, in a very short time it will be amended. As far as reconciliation is concerned, it is simply a good European practice, to first settle obligations, and then to ask the state. One great statesman said that people should not ask what the country can do for them, but what they can do for the country. As far as credit lines are concerned, what's important is that we talked to all banks at the current agricultural fair in Novi Sad, short-term loans are largely issued, and that's not a problem. Banks are a little slower to process long-term credit paperwork, and I think they're going to be a little better at dealing with the problem in the next period. What we are trying to do and even more to meet farmers, is that in each local self-government we establish a fund for the development of agriculture and in such a way, through zero-percent interest credit lines during the grace period and 2% of interest at the annual level for the repayment of loans, we meet for specific regions, and thus the comparative advantage of these regions in the area of agriculture as much as possible. I can see that Mr. Ilic is not here, but for the reason that this session is being followed and the viewers and all the other MPs have answered some questions. As regards the concerns of the esteemed colleague Ilic, and regarding the purchase of certain agricultural products, for this reason, today there is a law in the Assembly that will, as I have explained and mentioned, enable farmers not to be in debt on the basis of their assets, but on the basis of their product and therefore do not have to sell the product themselves when they have to, but when they think they will achieve the best price. As for the aforementioned premiums for tobacco and milk, I can say that the premiums for tobacco and milk have been paid in full for 2008. As for the mentioned imports of meat from South America, I can say that, as far as illegal meat imports are concerned, only during April, the Ministry of Agriculture General Inspectorate seized 10 tonnes of illegally imported meat. That meat was taken to the cafeterias and properly destroyed. As far as attending the field, as you know, probably the sparrows on the branches know, every assistant, every secretary of state at the Ministry of Agriculture, like me, has an obligation to spend at least three days a week on the ground, and most of them probably know that for the first six months no one was allowed to go on vacation either, and that no one could ask for an overtime, because the Ministry of Agriculture is working late at night, which you can check every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19252	The word has the People's MP, Maras Slobodan, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19253	Mr. Dragin, unfortunately, you've now given me a cause for replication. What you've quoted as one great statesman, I don't think it's an honor. Now I'm going to tell you why. I believe the citizens are fed up, I'm fed up, I'm giving something to the state all the time, and the state is always expecting something from me to give it to her. Let the state give something to the citizens. Give me a chance to work, I mean in the end line. Don't say that. Now you've tried, quoting what you've said, I believe on purpose, but you've shown the relationship we talk about all the time, which the government has towards the citizens. You can't just expect citizens to give up, and give up, and deny and be patient -- let the state give up some things. You mentioned the proposal for a law on public storage for agricultural products. I must stress that I am no expert in this area and, of course, I am much, much weaker than all of you sitting there, and even a colleague who is an expert lawyer, but knows more than I do probably about this area. To explain to me Article 3. Proposal for a law on public warehouses for agricultural products, where it says – agricultural products are: cereals, industrial plants, fruit and vegetables in a fresh or processed state. In the proposal for a law on agriculture and rural development, it says – agricultural production is the process of producing plant and livestock products. Just to explain, maybe I don't understand it better, but where did the cattle get lost in all this?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19254	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19255	As far as public storage law is concerned, such terminology is used in all European countries, i.e. this is a group of products stored and treated in such a way. As far as agricultural products themselves are concerned, of course there are cattle products, but they are not the subject of public storage, simply because these are seasonal products and these are products that are succesively arriving throughout the year and this is common practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19256	The word is from MP Zoran Bortic, the authorised representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group. I'm just asking you to sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19257	The esteemed chairman-in-Office, respected presidency, respected ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, esteemed fellow MPs, before I move on to an analysis of the proposed laws regulating the area of agriculture, I would like to point to several, in my opinion, alarming processes that have taken place in agriculture and the Serbian village over the past decade. The fact is that even if there was no global economic crisis that affected our economy that any responsible government in Serbia, which is considering its country's prosperity, would have to pay greater attention to agricultural production, but also to the lives and perspectives of people who deal with this extremely difficult work. It should not be recalled that Serbia is the only chance to get out of the severe economic and transition crisis – organised agriculture and to use the comparative advantages that the country has in food production. Unfortunately, with less or more honorable exceptions, all previous governments dealt with agriculture and the village mostly as a campaign and without strategic plans. This led to the fact that agriculture and people living from working in this area were left to the chaos of the liberal market and the complete uncertainty of production planning. The consequences of such a relationship between the state and the most important branch of our economy are inconceivable and difficult, and that even by superficial listing they can be defined. However, every day in our media, we can monitor the many weaknesses that make the lives of our people who live on agriculture, but also the consequences of the chaos in this area that all other layers of population and states in general suffer. I will remind some of these weaknesses, so that this assembly, as well as Serbian citizens, can see the seriousness of the situation in which Serbian agriculture is at the moment. That way, everyone could see the importance of the legislation that we are discussing, because we want to admit it or not, unless, in the most recent time, progressive laws and new standards regulate this area, Serbian villages will remain completely empty, and Serbia will, instead of exporters, be importers and basic life supplies. As an integral part of this fatalist, but unfortunately a very promising future, we will have megalopolis Belgrade and several major cities in which the rural population, arriving from the devastated Serbian villages, will be a permanent social bomb and an unsettled problem for each government. Because how anyone will ensure the operation – traffic, education, treatment, housing and work in such overpopulated environments. In order to avoid this, in order to transform the Orvelovic picture of Serbia's future into a picture of the prosperous and even development of each part of its territory, it is necessary in an organised and long-term planned way to ensure the development of Serbian agriculture and affirmation of any advantage that Serbia has in this area – from Sutotica to Dragas and from Gerdap to Drina. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the competent ministries, the authorities of local self-government, scientific and educational institutions and all other entities in the complex chain of agriculture organisation approach this business in a responsible manner, then we will not have problems that we can read about daily in our press. If we settle the farm, the shadow farmers will not throw away tons of best quality cheese, but it will be a Serbian brand, which will give birth to both Senica and this part of Serbia. Not long ago, the Zorka Sabbath was a global giant in the production of plant protection and other chemical industry products needed in modern agricultural production. Zorka's products were known and recognized on all continents. Today this factory dies, awaiting privatisation, and on the market plant protection products whose quality you can hear a frequent complaint from the food manufacturer are placed on the market. The uncertainty of buying out market surpluses, leaving the market to only regulate the prices of agricultural products, providing the possibility of a different blending and bringing the Serb peasant into an uninterrupted position that instead of long-term and organised production, he is planting the coupon this year, and in the coming year he is investing in pig farms, and next year he has to shut down production, due to the low price and inability of placements. If we don't talk about unused resources that literally have every end of our country, it starts with warm water in the Sword, to the pastures of Zlatar and the cave highlands, whose position would re-emerge Serbia. In short, well-organised agriculture would solve the problem of the country's even development, reduce the pressure of the rural population on cities, provide cheap food for locals and for exporting high-quality products, which could provide this country with a currency inflow of billions of dollars a year. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we need laws that will regulate the issues I have spoken about and all other issues concerning agriculture and the lives of our village. That is why, I am convinced, the set of agriculture laws that we are discussing today, is the first systematic approach of this government and the approximation of the normative regulation in the area of agriculture to modern European legislation. Let me briefly refer to some of the basic elements of these laws, in order to help the citizens of Serbia understand all the importance they will have in the overall development of not only our agriculture, but our country's development as a whole. At the same time, I would also like to contribute to the debate in this congregation being focused on making these laws more universally lit, possibly improving. Finally, at least in this area, the political majority and the opposition are united on the common interest, and this interest is probably clear to all – we need legislation that will save and improve our agriculture, not political upgrades between the majority and minority MPs. One of the most important laws we are discussing today is the proposal for a law on agriculture and rural development. This is a strategic law aimed at defining and establishing a policy in the area of agriculture and setting up a system of use and distribution of state incentives. In order to achieve these strategic objectives, very important for the whole country, this law establishes a public regulatory system of state incentives to be implemented on the basis of a national programme for the development of agriculture, a strategic document to be adopted for a period of three years. This law is the beginning of an institutional system that will allow the state to lead a policy of agriculture. It should be said that it, to the shortest extent that our normative order can provide at this time, is approaching our legislation to European standards, and its application in our everyday practice will contribute to the faster and more versatile standardisation of our agriculture as a whole. As such, this law is a starting basis that will improve and speed up the development of agriculture in Serbia, but also make the state systems and mechanisms supporting this development more efficient and useful, less corrupt and above all creative and competent. Finally, it should be said that the agricultural development process itself in our country will dictate the need for further improvement and amendments to this law. Common food poisoning and various harmful bacteria polluting products of animal and plant origin not only endanger human health but also causing invaluable damage to the placement of our goods on the domestic and foreign market. Chairman, I apologize, if they're not interested, I don't mind. Diseases such as swine fever or the occurrence of trihinosis and salmonella pose serious problems as to how producers, traders and exporters of many products themselves, but, above all, it damages Serbia to present itself on the regional and world market as a power in the production of high-quality food products, which, according to all the parameters it has, can indeed be. Therefore, the adoption of food safety laws is a significant step in protecting human life and health, but also in protecting animal health and well-being, protecting plant health and plant species and protecting the environment in general. By adopting this law, Serbia as a state fulfils the obligation to its citizens who have the right to buy and use food that does not endanger their health. This law allows the State, through competent institutions and instruments, to protect this right to the greatest extent possible, by applying the food control system, both domestic and imports. At the same time, the international obligations that our country has accepted in the process of stabilising and joining the EU define Serbia to adopt this law. The high standards established in this area in EU countries are one of the important steps that we must skip if we want to feed our goods European consumers and be competitive in their highly developed markets. The need to pass a new law on the protection of plants, in addition to the constitutional basis, has also been imposed because of the importance of protecting the Republic of Serbia against the introduction and spread of pests on its territory. The legal basis should clearly define the production, use and transport of plants, plant products and prescribed facilities of appropriate health status from the point of view of agricultural production, but also protect the lives and health of consumers and the environment in general. The protection of plant health is a very complex area, which in a multidisciplinary way affects many areas of everyday life. The need for a new law to regulate this complex area also imposes a reform plan in the field of plant health, which is aimed at bringing standards in line with EU and World Trade Organisation standards. This law will institutionalise all new solutions that will enable the implementation of the reform plan. If Serbia wants to be an equal participant in the international exchange of herbs and plant products, it must accept international standards, measures and procedures, and apply them on its territory. This team before our country has optimal conditions for the production and processing of various plants. Serbia is recognizable not only in EU countries, but also in the world, by the richness and quality of plant resources, so the adoption of this law and the application of standards that it establishes will allow domestic producers better access to the international market, but will also ensure that consumers in our country use healthy plants. At the same time, the new law will speed up conditions for better production in the area of agriculture. In order to systematically address the issue of plant health in our country, it is necessary to regulate and use the means to feed plants and soil pollinators. This law regulates the classification, quality, marking, phytosanitary control and sampling of transport, import and use of plant and land processing products. The current legislation in this area has often not been enforceable, both due to the difference between plant protection and plant feeding products and due to the inadequacy of certain legal solutions. As a result, the adoption of this new law has been imposed as an optimal solution, as its application in the area of plant and land-mining funds will apply standards that apply to the EU and thus remove barriers to the export of our products to this and to other world-wide markets. This law will allow producers, importers and distributors of plant and land-mining products to carry out their work with less risk and without loss. Unique quality control methods for reference laboratories will be applied, which will remove doubts about their quality and risk of use by users of these funds, plant manufacturers. The proposal for a plant protection law establishes new standards and regulates the registration, control, transport, import and application of plant protection products in agriculture and forestry, public-interest jobs in the field of plant protection funds, as well as other significant issues related to this area. The harmonisation of existing legislation in the area of plant protection funds with the current EU standards has led to the need to pass a new law that will regulate this area as an independent. This approach is already being applied to EU member states. The adoption of this law and the application of the standards it establishes will allow for the access of domestic plant and agricultural products producers to the European market. However, the most important reason for the adoption of this law is the fact that the area of plant protection and residence funds is regulated by the regulations of the three ministries, namely the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning and the Ministry of Health. The new law will also allow raising the level of awareness of plant users to accept the fact that pesticides, although necessary in agricultural production, pose a certain risk to people and the environment. The law establishes the responsibility of all entities in the field of plant protection, including the users of these funds, that their responsibility is not only to preserve their own health, but also to have a responsibility to the lives, health and safety of the wider community. In other words, they are obliged not to disrupt human health and the quality of the environment by producing, transporting or applying plant protection products. Dear fellow MPs, as far as I know, in the last few years no legislative proposal has caused so many controversys and different interpretations in the public, as have been caused by the proposals of the wine law and the law on brandy and other alcoholic beverages. Long before the drafts of these laws came into preparation and into the usual procedure, Serbian villages and wine and brandy producers began to circulate rumors that the new law would prohibit peasants from making wine and brandy the way their grandfathers did. I'm not exaggerating, but I wouldn't be surprised if the villagers started hiding their lamps in secret hiding places. It is so when he does not come seriously and responsibly to the village and the peasant and when he is left to himself, and often and unfortunately, a tragic experience in which he and his country often drew a thicker end. It doesn't have to be that way. It doesn't have to be because this assembly serves, among other things, and for us, MPs, to explain to those who have chosen us that the laws we adopt are not made to skin the peasant from behind, but to create normative assumptions and to establish standards that have already been established by the whole developed world and that will enable him to produce more, better and better, and that his products, quality and recognizable, can be handled with any product on the European and world market. The new wine law will allow for the faster and more productive development of this precious agricultural branch and contribute to the well-known Serbian wineries, such as high-level, fresher-gore or parish, to rise to the level of Portuguese or French, while the protected varieties of Serbian wines are also sought at the world's most selective tables. It is the same with brandy and other traditional alcoholic beverages produced in Serbia. So, it is not the aim of the legislator to deny the Serb peasant the right to bake his traditional toast, but to establish standards and create assumptions that the Serbian plump becomes a world-rent brand, to know that its country of origin is Serbia, that it is guaranteed and standard quality, which will open the door to all markets. We're not going to make the world produce and counter the caller, are we? It's the same with the ethanol bill. Ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin has a broad application in our country. It is used in many industrial branches for the production of alcoholic beverages, in the military industry, in pharmaceuticals, as a fuel supplement, but also for the promotion of agrarians and in the raising of livestock funds. A wide range of its application represents it as a strategic product, both in developed and less developed countries. Etanol has been so applied in various areas over the last decades, so it can be said to be one of the key foundations of future civilization development. Chairman, I'd like to ask you to use the Parliament Group's time as well. For the sake of such importance of this product, it is necessary to regulate the conditions of production of ethanol legally, quality control, declaration, transport and import and use of ethanol, as well as control over the implementation of this law in a unique, international way. The reason for the adoption of this law lies in the fact that so far the practice has shown that imports of ethanol are carried out against the legal assets of the EU and no importer has been authorised by the competent import ministry, which must be limited and controlled, as European regulations require. Given the importance of this raw material, the EU must provide the necessary information on the quantity of produced, exported, imported and available ethanol. According to the legislation so far, we did not have any information on these issues, and that is why it is necessary to regulate the use of ethanol in accordance with the highest European standards. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a law on public warehouses allows the area of storage of agricultural products to comply with the standards of storage of these goods of the world's most developed economies. This law will bring our warehouses closer to the standards of successful world stockpiles for agricultural products and create normative assumptions for eliminating the weaknesses that have accumulated in this area over the past years. The basic reasons for the adoption of laws on genetically modified organisms stem from the need to establish standards and control systems and measures for the protection of the environment and human health against possible harmful effects when using genetically modified organisms and products from genetically modified organisms. The aim is to protect crops from the spread of genetically modified organisms, as well as consumers from buying illicit products from genetically modified organisms. By adopting this law, the Republic of Serbia will join the world community of states and nations that establish control and seek to prevent abuses in the production and development of genetically modified organisms. Without that control, the areas of genetic engineering would have created inconceivable consequences for human civilization. That is why it is necessary to regulate this area of human activity legally in accordance with the highest international standards. It is the same with the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on reproductive material of forest trees. So far, the legal solutions that regulate this area have proved insufficiently accurate and it was necessary to remove the shortcomings observed in the current application of the law, but also to lay down criminal provisions for all those who violate the norms of this law, which have not been regulated by the current law. At the same time, this law is in line with EU standards and norms and other acts of international organisations proposed to amend and supplement. Dear fellow Members of the People, the proposals for a law on livestock farming and the animal welfare law stem from the need for the area of livestock farming and animal protection to be regulated in a comprehensive way, which will equate this area of human activity in our country with the standards that apply in EU countries. These legislative proposals introduce standards and newspapers that will allow the state to conduct policy in the field of livestock farming and animal protection, enabling the rapid development of livestock farming in the Republic of Serbia as well as the development of a state system and institutions that will enable it to develop. It should be said that these legal proposals are another step in bringing our country closer to the standards of European legislation in the area of agriculture. At the very end, I would like to point out a bill on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act. The reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the need to address the problems and shortcomings identified in the application of the law so far, but also to create normative assumptions for the implementation of Serbia's agriculture strategy, to create assumptions for the planning of protection, use and regulation of agricultural land, for which the basics are set out in Serbia's spatial development strategy, to ensure that agricultural land management is improved and effective control and supervision. At the same time, this law will bring our legislation into line with European norms and standards that regulate the area of agricultural land. I note that the SPS-JS parliamentary group will vote on the drafts of these laws in the voting day. I expect that these legislative proposals, enriched by the debate and amendments adopted by the National Assembly, will contribute after adoption to one of the most important areas of Serbia's overall development – agriculture, prosperity and accelerated development, because this is in the interest of both our countries and all its citizens. In this respect, I expect the Government of the Republic of Serbia in general and the relevant ministries to take all necessary measures to adopt the laws that the National Assembly adopts consistently and effectively. Only by applying these laws and by adopting the necessary sub-legislative acts, regulations, decisions and other rules that will specify the standards that the laws establish can be stopped by the process of dying the Serbian village and the growing tycunisation that threatens to establish a complete monopoly in agricultural production. For all this, I appeal to all the competent entities in our society, and above all to the Ministry of Agriculture, to commit themselves to the consistent application of the laws adopted by the National Assembly, which I have spoken of in the past minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19258	The word is from MP Zoran Nikolic, the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19259	Dear People's MPs, distinguished ministers, respected Mr. Odalovic, Mrs. Komic, we have 15 laws in the field of agriculture and forestry today, or, more specifically, 14 laws in the field of agriculture and one in the area of forestry, which means that we are talking all afternoon about agriculture and we will do so in the afternoon, and that fact is good. It's good to talk about agriculture, because agriculture is our most important business branch, and we all know the statistics that in 2008 we achieved a 600 million dollar surplus in the trade. What is not good is that we are discussing such a large number of laws together and that in just five hours we have in this debate, and the opposition has two and a half hours, we need to discuss all these laws. That, Minister, is not your fault. The DSS parliamentary group proposed that the ruling majority be broken into certain segments, but the ruling coalition did not want that. Here is the question – how many laws will this assembly vote and bring forward by the Serbian agrarian? Of course, it's better to have things regulated by law than not to have laws and therefore appropriate answers. But these laws are not in line with what is happening in the Serbian agrarian and what is happening in the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Agricultural Budget. The agricultural budget is inadmissiblely small. With the 2009 draft budget, we had such a proposal for the Agricultural Budget, which since 2000 has never been less involved in the overall budget. That's when we told those who defended that budget that it wasn't a real projection either, but to hope that when the rebalancing work was done, they wouldn't be taken from agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture again, but our efforts and wishes that we expressed when the budget was adopted fell into the water when we saw the budget rebalancing. The Agrarian budget, which was scheduled for 2009, amounting to 20.5 billion, is further reduced by 16 billion, or 22%, and in one interview you said you had to be a magician to distribute these funds, because over 90% of these funds have to go for the payment of subsidies. I don't think you'll be successful in this business and you won't have enough money for all the obligations you have towards agricultural producers and agriculture, and I can't help but wonder that you've agreed to one of these rebalances. The shortage you think you're replacing, so you can make all payments to the agricultural producers, amounting to 4.6 billion, you've, let's say, thought of making up for it by withdrawing funds from the Agricultural Production Incentive Fund. In the Fund, I assume that the money now has and that at this very time agricultural producers, those who are users of long-term and short-term loans, during this period, are calming their obligations and that these funds that you have planned will be available to you and that, on the other hand, you mean to pay back, or to pay off, your commitments for 2009. But here I ask the first question - is it normal that there are no funds in the Agrarian budget and that they intersect in a way, to disfigure themselves, so to speak, as it is done in the rebalancing, I am glad that you confirm this because it speaks of the government's relationship to the agrarian? I'm making a digression, agriculture was one of the most significant promises of this ruling coalition. Absolutely, the towers and cities of agricultural producers were promised, and now we are facing each other, as in other areas, but it seems to me in agriculture in the most drastic form, with the fact that there will be absolutely nothing of these pre-election promises. This points to one problem that when you use political demagogy, it gives you a short-term effect, but it comes back to you as a boomerang. But what's the point of the whole thing is that policies in agrarian should be as small as possible political parties, and what should be in agrarian is one professionally done analysis of the agricultural development strategy. My first question is, if the funding from this year is 4.6 billion, and it might be bigger, we'll see, spend, what about the Fund for next year? From what means next year will agricultural producers be able to obtain short-term and long-term loans, if we now spend these funds? And we are already aware, and we have announced this by the finance ministers when she defended the rebalancing, that we will see ourselves here again, unfortunately in September, and that the funds will be further reduced by the resolution ministries, and as we see that the finance minister and the ruling coalition are treating agriculture, we are afraid that the funds will also be reduced in the new rebalancing. I have a few questions and I'm going to try to ask them, and I'm going to give some arguments, hoping that you'll answer them in the best possible way. I think in this year, it's probably not your fault, but it's also the result of your 2008 debt transfers, that the payments you have and the obligations you have have never been as late as they are now. What I'd like to point to as a problem and I'd like to hear your answer is the problem you've already passed a regulation, such as subsidizing cooperatives. After conducting the whole procedure, these subsidies are lifted, which in my opinion puts you in one extremely risky position, or position as someone who is a risky partner. I'm interested in your opinion – do you think that uniform or identical compensation per hectare is enough stimulating measure, regardless of the yield by that hectare, is a sufficiently stimulating measure, or is it simply this way that we go to some average and not competitive creation of a competitive agricultural structure? I don't think we stimulate those who invest and those who are willing to make extra efforts and have higher yields than the average. What you can see in public is what I don't think you're successful in is the deepening of antagonism between agricultural producers on the one hand, large agricultural goods on the other, cooperatives and all the factors in that chain, and that you haven't worked enough to build mutual relations to make the fruit and co-operation more competitive agricultural production. I ask the question – why today, at this point, a Serbian peasant cannot export potatoes, cooled frozen pig meat, as well as a number of other products that would mean additional revenues and which would significantly increase our trade? What does the export structure of agricultural products seem to be with a higher level of processing, or more favourable, so that it brings more money? I also ask the question from the veterinary field - why does it not care about vaccination on swine fever, especially if it is known that after the vaccination has stopped, two more years should pass, which is one of the conditions that we can export pig meat? Did the established General Inspectorate and Veterinary Inspectorate, which was extracted from the Veterinary Administration, and for the effect it had had a negative impact on the successful functioning of the traceability system, which ultimately resulted in, I would even say, the worst report on the state of the veterinary system by the European Commission Consumer Protection Directorate-General? Why did you go so easily through the vote, or the application of the SAA? This directly exposes our agriculture to additional pressures, or lowers the level of protection of our agricultural production, when we know that on the other hand the negative effects, the effects that come from the SAA, are great. We are coming into a paradoxical situation that we who do not have an orderly situation in agriculture are opening the market for those countries that have this state and how arranged, and which are rich countries, and which very richly subsidise their agricultural producers that even on the Serbian market can place their products. So big promises have been made in the sphere of agriculture. Little has been achieved by what has been promised, and now we have clear, I believe that you are aware of these facts, that agricultural producers are very unhappy, but they are justly unsatisfactory. Despite their legitimate dissatisfaction, we also have dissatisfaction with producers, or farmers, and all this ultimately results in end-users also using goods, i.e. buying food very often at more expensive prices than on some other markets, and as a result we have a dissatisfying consumer. A certain balance must be found on that line. I commend you for bringing into assembly procedure this many laws, but these laws will not solve the problems of agrarians. These laws are the harmonisation of rules with the EU. If that were not the case, they would not look like laws adopted in the Croatian Parliament, for we have also proposed laws on agricultural land, and on agriculture and the laws on fertilisers and soil improvers. It's just a language version of our bill. These laws are very similar to each other, which is probably our condition for the approximation of the EU, but also only the state of agriculture in Croatia, which is much better than in Serbia, shows that it is not the result of the law, but also the larger funds that the state allocates for agriculture in Croatia than you in Serbia, and better organisation. For the first time reported this much, I'll leave the time when we're done arguing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19260	The word has a minister, Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19261	I thank my colleague Nikolic for an extremely constructive debate. I would absolutely agree with the part of the Agrarian budget discussion, we definitely need a larger Agrarian budget to solve the problems of the agrarians in Serbia. As for the remarks on Croatian legislation, this law was not made according to Croatian, but was done with what is required of us in the EU accession process. However, one small correction, unlike Serbia, which annually exports about $1.6 billion worth of agricultural goods and food products, Croatia has a billion-euro deficit in this case, so that the Croatian agrarian is in a far worse situation than Serbia's and despite high subsidies. What I would like to answer is the questions that you have asked, which are absolutely in place, are primarily about the loan from the Agricultural Development Fund, and I can tell you that this fund has been filling up since 2004, in a succession yearly manner, and by doing so, every year, funds are being received, so that, in addition to having something missing in one year, the next year will lead to that fund being renewed. I hope that there will also be some next budget a little more understanding, so we will be able to foster lending in the area of agriculture, as we wanted to do. What is also important to point out is that the lending segment is also transferred to local self-governments, in such a way that the ministry believes that not every decision on each loan has to be made in Belgrade, that it is very important that through regionalisation and giving more jurisdiction to local self-government that local self-government itself, through agricultural development funds, participate in the lending of agricultural production, according to the comparative advantage of certain regions. As for the issues related to cooperatives, we lifted that line, it was last year, for the simple reason that we couldn't find a legal basis to give in a way, as described in the regulation, these assets were singled out, and I'm not inclined to do anything against the law, and for that reason I prayed for an understanding of a decision like this. One-faced givings per hectare. Unfortunately, the institutional capacities of the Ministry that I have taken have not enabled great variety in incentivization, but as I have previously mentioned, we have separated clearly from fruit production and, as you know, for intense vineyards you can get 1.2 million dinars per hectare, while for tobacco this year it is about 32,000 dinars per hectare, while for other war cultures it is 12,000 dinars per hectare, with a difference for undeveloped areas of our country that have far easier conditions to obtain these incentives than those of others. The moment we introduce the Agrarian Payments Agency, the Agriculture and Rural Development Act defines that agency, we'll be able to do that selection. Of course, it is important that the geographical information system in agriculture develops. I can say that some countries that have joined the EU themselves have not yet developed that system, and we have already begun to do it, so we hope that we may get before them. For example, our eastern neighbours who are in the EU do not have such a possibility of separation and selection towards cultures, but that is definitely something we are going towards and you have seen it very well. As for the inspection, they were here and I wouldn't say the report was negative, but suggestions were received. What is important, there are three ways to treat us – to get a negative report, to get a suggestion or to accept it immediately. We've got suggestions. I can say that 90% of these things have already been done based on the oral recommendation of the inspectors themselves, and that now, based on the suggestion that we have received, the final report has not yet arrived, to answer, but the answer has already been prepared. So far, we've done almost 90% of the things we've done. As far as the antagonism between processors and individual farmers is concerned, you've recognized it very well. It's an antagonism that lasts for years. The point of antagonism is that in the agriculture sector, i.e. the purchase of agricultural enterprises, people who have often been in some gray areas of business during the 1990s have entered. It's an economy where people have learned to take money and run away, instead of by long-term partnership with their associates in the business, which in this case are agricultural producers, building trust and thus building their cooperative relationship. What you are probably familiar with, we have often talked about, my relationship with agriculture is such that I do not agree with the way privatisation has been done in the agriculture sector, for the simple reason that I think it took part of ownership of agricultural enterprises to offer above all cooperatives, primarily joint agricultural producers, and in such a way we bind them and capital from the business sector, because it's the right rope and the right way to have a whole chain, from the field, or the barn, to the shelf in the supermarket. As you know, I'm struggling to build such a relationship. They must know that, without their raw materials bases, they can't produce anything, and they can't bring on our market, nor on foreign markets, quality agricultural products. On the other hand, farmers need responsible buyers of their products to think in the long term about agricultural production. The best example of how someone burned about it is an example of last year's sugar beet campaign, when due to a very bad sugar relationship with farmers last year, the interest in producing the sugar root was very low and for this reason was asked by the Ministry to ban sugar tail exports. We did not allow it, nor will we ever allow the export of any agricultural product to be banned, for the simple reason that it is the only reason it is used by the mechanics and not by the agricultural producers. As for the potatoes, you asked a very specific question. The procedure was initiated a year ago, and we hope that within a very short time period of time we will be able to export potatoes from our country. As for swine fever, or classical swine fever, we have been inoculating cattle regularly for many years. This is not done in the EU. For this reason, the EU is asking us not to have a swine fever on the ground for at least 24 months so that we can stop the vaccination. Right now, we've had 12 months since no case of swine fever showed up. What's interesting about that, and it would be good to meet the MPs, is that we launched an initiative in Brussels, to grant us the possibility of a pilot project so-called. Compertation of exports of pigs, i.e. to select representative facilities that would be in such a system of animal health that they do not have to be vaccinated and thus avoid what is a very big problem. For example, the Netherlands, the moment it ceased to vaccinate, next year it had an epidemic and spent about four billion euros to compensate for the costs of destroying the sick, or animals in the risk area. It's just that Serbia doesn't have that kind of money. For this reason, we want to make a few farms that will allow it to be exported from Serbia, and on the other hand not to take risks and take commitments in such an economic situation, which, of course, is very difficult in the world. As far as the SAA is concerned, you know my point of view. What we insisted is that the adoption of the agreement be moved within two months, i.e. not to be taken as basic in 2008, we actually spent one whole year in two months, because it arrived as a proposal somewhere in November. So we asked that it be applied from the new year, in this way we got another year, that the state of Serbia has the opportunity to coordinate its agriculture and gain competence with European agriculture. Once again, thank you for a very professional and good discussion, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19262	The word is from MP Zoran Masic, authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19263	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Ministers and Associates of the Ministry of Agriculture, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, first of all, at the beginning of my debate, I would like to commend the Minister and Ministry of Agriculture that they have made an effort to establish them to release this number of laws in the field of agriculture in the assembly procedure, because that was the essence of the need for our agricultural production. For each criticism, the previous authorities, which have done little on this plan, and on several occasions I have personally expressed our party's views that this is inadmissible, that at least the law has been passed in the area of agriculture and at least harmonised legislation with EU legislation, since we tend to become a member of the EU soon. Certainly for delivering to the National Assembly and releasing the procedure is due to the Ministry, but again I would like to express my disdain in front of our parliamentary group that it is extremely unacceptable to discuss in this way such significant laws from such important economic areas as agriculture. First of all, those who are interested in these laws through such a debate and such an organised debate cannot fully understand in what sense and how advanced agricultural production will be by adopting such laws. But what is there is, the ruling majority determines the agenda and runs this National Assembly, Parliament, and we from the opposition have to comply. Before I talk about a certain number of laws, it is simply not possible to talk about everything in the time that our parliamentary group has available, I want to look at the overall situation in agriculture from the aspect of seeing the SNS, and I would like to go first from what we had two or three weeks ago here in parliament, that's budget rebalance and positions in division 14, what was allocated to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. To say again, that this is a highly irresponsible relationship between the budget rebalancer, so the finance minister and the government themselves, that the amount determined by the rebalance in the coming period is financed by agricultural production, because simply with these funds it cannot be financed. Respecting the fact that, in the context of the increase in agricultural resources, a part of the Fund for the Development of Agriculture will also be used, meaning those funds returned to, I say, that fund on the basis of short- and long-term loans granted in the previous period. However, if these funds are employed and spent, they are, as it would say, spent forever, unable to re-engage, and will thus most directly reduce that fund, which is certainly not good, but it will also be some sort of solution for agricultural producers, and I am just appealing to the ministers and the Ministry to give in accordance with these promises, the engagement of these funds and ultimately, the credit, as far as I understand from a billion dinars, that these funds are made possible and made available to agricultural producers. Because only under these conditions in relation to what the budget rebalance is determined and what will be used by the Development Fund and those about four billion 600 million and that billion loans will, however, be able to respect what is, to say and given and promised. I must remind the ruling party first of all what she promised the citizens before these last elections. She promised an agricultural budget of 400m euros. What we have in the budget right now isn't half of it, so they need to imagine how they're going to justify themselves in some of the next elections, and we hope that they will be soon. Certainly the agrarian budget is important for encouraging the development of agricultural production and if we have a fact that it is still close to about two billion unmistakable commitments from 2008, then it brings even more, I say, into doubt and the reality of the reconciliation of all those commitments that have been made to finance through existing laws, and also through those which we will now bring, during this session. I also appeal and pray from the position of the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, and we discussed this on several occasions, in order to reconcile the 2008 commitments as quickly as possible. Let me remind you, gentlemen of the Ministry and all of you, that neither the veterinary profession has been settled nor the veterinary profession, which has made it clear that it will not be included in the implementation of the health care programme unless those obligations are met. They are half-reliable to both veterinary cells and veterinary institutes, and also a good part of other subsidies that are under obligation to be fulfilled are not met. From what I understand, the minister once said here today that milk subsidies have been settled for 2008. If that's true, then it's good news for all of us, but there is still a significant part of the subsidies to the unmistakable. Furthermore, insufficient funding will certainly slow down a lot of what needs to be implemented from the budget. The overall state of our agricultural production is currently extremely difficult and therefore slightly degutantly acts as an announcement by one minister from another ministry that, in the area of agricultural production, the situation is significantly improved, that already increased exports of agricultural products, primarily cereals and food products, as if most of us had lost our memory. As far as cereals are concerned, it is possible that it is quite increased and it would have been better if much more had been increased than the current situation of grain exports, because we thought until about 500,000 tonnes of extra wheat until a week or two ago and we had about a million tonnes of excess corn, and we had the government's regulation last year until June, the beginning of July, which prohibited the export of cereals. Therefore, all that was exported during this year compared to the one up to the middle of last year is a significant increase. But both exporters and the Ministry alone through the incentive to export should do more on grain exports, because the harvest is wheat on the threshold. A moon or a month and a half with these temperatures will surely be harvesting wheat. Experts' estimates suggest that over a million tonnes of wheat for export may be provided for surpluses between 500 and 700 thousand tonnes of wheat. Next, what's promised to subsidize, it's per hectare of arable surface. Unfortunately, above all, according to agricultural producers, this could hardly be achieved in this half-year from the existing budget. I urge that it begin to comply with these obligations as soon as possible, because I think that the obligation and only the ministry will put into priority, to reconcile the commitments of those 12,000 dinars per hectare of arable area, so that at least agricultural producers have at least safe means to create autumn crops and to finance all other costs to be realized. What concerns us, the MPs and, above all, agricultural producers, these are insufficient funds for the development of agricultural production in rural areas. In recent years, they have decreased significantly, and this year they are even more reduced, which is also not good, because there are significant resources, above all, to increase agricultural production. It must be done much more to increase the resources for production, above all in these border areas and in these rural areas, not only in terms of the development of agricultural production, but also in all other infrastructure developments, from roads, schools, public, cultural institutions, etc., meaning everything that will allow as many young people as possible to deal with agricultural production, especially in this economic crisis that leaves out a large number of citizens of our country. Furthermore, what is also problematic, at the very least, is the lending of agricultural production, regardless of the statements given today in parliament, but according to personal knowledge and according to information obtained from the side, banks continue to make significant strain on the granting of loans, above all for the purchase of larger and more expensive equipment, for the purchase of a irrigation system. Without renewing the machinery, without obtaining a irrigation system, I think our country and our agricultural producers will have major problems, given the permanent global warming and the increase in average temperatures. We are also witnessing this spring, already in this time of high temperatures, which have a direct impact primarily on plant production. That is why without a irrigation system, and in a much larger amount of irrigation of agricultural areas, we will find it difficult to preserve the scope of our agricultural production. Then, what I want to point to is the overall state of livestock production. I think it must concern you, too, gentlemen of the Ministry of Agriculture, and us who are here are the people's representatives, including all agricultural producers, because we have a permanent stagnation of agricultural production and it almost doesn't stop. Something more serious and more radical must be done on that basis. I am aware of the fact that it is difficult to make a serious turn in relation to the situation and the situation of privatised food industrial plants, including slaughterhouses and milkers, that I do not say oilers, sugars, which puts the primary agricultural producer, among other things, in the livestock industry, in order to have a permanent oscillation in the price of living cattle cost and thus the growth and decline of livestock production, particularly in the case of natural persons, in the case of individual agricultural producers. We must make significant moves both in terms of the quality of our livestock fund and also in terms of improving animal health. The good news is that we haven't had a swine fever for more than a year and that this will create a prerequisite for maybe stopping the vaccination and creating preconditions for exporting pig meat to the European and world markets, but we have the occurrences of some other diseases over a long period of time, which we haven't contained. A particular problem may arise if the veterinary profession is not in that scope to implement the programme of measures it has implemented in previous years, precisely because of the failure to comply with the obligations that the Ministry has to those entities. My appeal again is that you take this seriously and make an effort to change it. Furthermore, what I'm still trying to say is that this reduced budget will have an impact on some other funding that was in the previous years, I mean, first of all, on the doping of agricultural production insurance. You must make it clear to the farmers whether they will be able to expect certain doping or subsidisation of insurance or to manage themselves, because after these heats it is to expect the occurrence of mayoral clouds, major damage in agricultural production, and without insurance it leads to direct losses. I tried only the most important things to apostrophe which represent major problems right now in our agricultural production and some current state of that agricultural production here to bring out, but certainly the farmers themselves know best what kind of troubles and problems they face. I think you, gentlemen of the ministry, in contact with agricultural producers can hear it yourself. We should certainly be looking forward to discussing today 15 laws that will significantly improve or should be improved if all laws are implemented, and unfortunately, in our country, it does not have to mean and does not exist as a rule. We've got a lot of laws that we've passed, and good laws, but they don't apply, and they don't apply and they're worthless. I would certainly not personally like these laws to be passed in the coming period, but rather to be implemented and that what the state has taken over as a commitment and fulfils, and certainly agricultural producers themselves. This will see even greater production and higher exports of agricultural products expected. Appreciate that we've been working actively since the beginning, I'll be talking for another three minutes, so I'll take a break, and then I'll use it in the debate of the parliamentary groups for the more time I have. I'd like to say a few words about this first law that's on this agenda, which is the proposal for a law on agriculture and rural development. It is a law that has so far not been in our country's legal system and that is significant with several aspects. However, I also have certain objections in front of our parliamentary group. First of all, when it comes to the strategy and the adoption of a strategy for the development of agriculture. Certainly the agriculture strategy under which our agricultural production is currently being organised and existed was brought four years ago by the government, then the government. A lot of things in it have been overcome. A new strategy should be adopted for 10 years in accordance with this law. You suggest we bring it back to the government. I don't think that's good, and above all you have the right to propose you, as the ruling coalition, that such an important strategic document is brought by the government, which will oblige all of the next governments for the next 10 years. In that sense, we have given the amendment before our parliamentary group that the agriculture strategy is being brought by the Assembly and I ask that you accept that amendment, because I think it is logical. Also, according to this law, a national programme for agriculture, a national rural development programme, should be adopted, and you propose to also bring the government, with a duration or length of up to seven years. I don't think that's right, and it's not correct by the promoter. The national programme should be adopted, but for the longest period of four years, as long as the duration of one government is because it is an operational document relying on the strategy. In that sense, we have also given the amendment and I hope you will accept. What's significant, and I'm asking just a minute or two to extend, so I'm just going to finish up, just to get around this law. This law clearly lays down incentives in the area of agricultural production and divides them into direct, market incentives, as well as structural incentives. Direct incentives are premiums, incentives for production, regress and support for non-competition agricultural holdings, then market incentives are export incentives, then incentives for storage costs and credit support, and structural incentives are rural development measures, improvement of protection and quality of agricultural land and institutional support measures. I think this is quite good and that this regulation will legally reduce the number of regulations that have regulated this area so far. This law regulates the use of incentives, meaning who has the right to use, which is, above all, family agricultural holdings and defines what family agricultural land is, which is non-commercial agricultural land. This law clearly defines the register of agricultural holdings which has so far been regulated by the regulation. Now it's regulated by law, which is also good. Finally, this law regulates the recording and reporting of agriculture and an integrated agricultural information system. It clearly defines what everything is recorded in the Ministry of Agriculture. These are long-term plantations, vegetable production, animal labelling, etc. What is important to define is an integrated agricultural information system, which is very important for informing agricultural producers. All in all, in addition to these small remarks, it can be said that this law is modern-day and that it can be acceptable and will be of great benefit to agricultural producers. I thank you and I will continue after the break, if you presidents insist on taking a break. Otherwise I'd be talking for another 15 minutes. I think we better take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19264	National MP, by the time you started using time, you had 25 minutes, not 15 minutes, now you have 23 minutes. I think it's okay to set a break by 3:15 now. The minister answered the question. The afternoon part of the session will continue to speak, if you wish, using the time of the parliamentary group, then the minister and then MP Milorad Krstin, who is an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Thank you. [[After break – 15/15]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. In the afternoon part, said MP Zoran Masic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia. He will take advantage of his group of MPs when, according to the application for a word, it comes to order, and now the word has been authorised by a representative of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Milorad Krstin. Please, just once press the switch in front of you, the key or whatever, and then no more, so I'd pray once. It's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19266	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have finally reached the Sixth Session of the First Regular Session in 2009. Normally, when I got the material, I saw that at last 15 points of the agenda appeared, and as far as agriculture is concerned, it concerns the Serb agrarian, unfortunately, as I would say - the darkness of the Serbian agrarian. I could not believe that the minister would accept the proposal of his party or the head of their MP group, ZES Nada Kolundzhija, and put these all 15 points in one basket, i.e. the principle of shock. The SRS is absolutely opposed to this, because we believe that the peasant paor, individual agricultural producer or registered agricultural landownership, the owner, did not deserve that 15 very important laws will not be individually discussed but will drown in the principled search and talk about them as much as they belong to their parliamentary group under the Rules of Procedure. Then you wonder why the SRS used its right and prepared about 400 amendments for a set of 15 laws. It's the only way and way to try to make these amendments legal and actually improve them. It may have somehow made sense to me that you took and put into principle the proposal for a law on wine, a bill on brandy and other alcoholic beverages, a bill on ethanol. Somehow, these three laws come together in each other and there's a lot of legal provisions inside, i.e. Members match. However, as I said, it seems important to you to pass these 15 laws by an urgent procedure and to make them a long way to hundreds of new laws or a faster path to the EU. By putting these 15 laws here before us that as authorised representatives we speak 20 minutes in front of the MP's party, let's say SRS 68 minutes, you won't achieve anything much, but we will make sure that through this discussion in principle, and then, according to the amendments, we show that these laws won't matter, and I will list them all now individually, at the cost of producing the manufacturer, i.e. The peasants, I mean his final product. If I say it's the fourth in a row, that's it. First in a joint review of the R & D Act, will it affect the price of goods produced by the farmer, meaning, on its final product? He won't. Will the proposal for a food safety law affect? He won't. Will the bill affect the health of plants affect its price? It won't affect. Will the proposal for a law on plant-eating and land-mining products affect the price of agricultural products, what the farmer produces? It won't matter. Will the bill of plant protection affect? It won't affect because this particular plant protection is one of the factors that makes it impossible, despite the low price, to get the peasant out of the crisis or to be, when he brings out his agricultural product, at least if nothing else, at some level zero. This proposal of the wine law won't affect. You're just harmonising the laws that need to get us into Europe. It is not the SRS against joining the EU. We are part of Europe, we are geographically in Europe, but you should know that hundreds of other agricultural laws are expecting us, and we will not enter Europe. No more forecasts – 2012, 2014, 2017 etc. The reality is that, ministers, by the proposal of these laws, which finally appeared in this highest legislative house, should have agreed with your party, with your boss, in fact not yours, but the head of the ZES parliamentary group, not to allow them to translate into one, to translate into a principled search, but to go individually, that everyone who wants to speak of each law, and their discussion to improve it, to allow each MP. Now, you have once again shown, believe me, that we are going not towards something much better or better, but I must call, with this move we are still going into the twilight of the Serbian agrarian. If I start the story, and I started it on these laws, I can't help but look back at your DOS success so far, after the five-octobaric revolution, by coming to the power of certain ministers, and by saying what it is that the ministers have done for the peasant, for the parore, for the individual agricultural producer, call us whatever you want, because I'm one of those who deals with agricultural production, I live in the country and I own 50 acres of land, and I know what the situation in the agrarian is. I'm telling you practically, taking what's said from the base. The first minister in 2001 was Veselinov, a man who was drilling to know so much about agriculture that he would do a miracle, and the only thing he seemed to do was, along with his driver, cut off innocent people all over Belgrade because an innocent woman was killed. His only story for the three years, since 2001, 2002 and 2003, was the story that wheat should not be sown, that wheat is excess, that there is enough wheat, but that we turn slowly to some other cultures, such as the planting of new vineyards, plantings of new orchards, fishes, etc. He doesn't know there's supposed to be a change of culture. You can't always sow corn, wheat, sunflower, oatmeal on one land, because it requires such bad agricultural land. In the last nine years, we can't boast that farmers have been able to help that plant, which is supposed to give its final product, and then economic security to its family and to its land. It was the only story and participation of this Minister Veselinov. When we thought that in 2004, 2005 and 2006 a major shift would be made in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, it comes from G 17 according to some arrangements, normally when the government is formed, Ivana Dulic-Markovic. What about her performance in those three years? Is it merely the essence of its action that she said that agricultural land should be registered in order to know how many holdings of agricultural land in Serbia we have or was there some other substance, where I brought out a series of irregularities through parliamentary issues, coming out for the speaker of this parliament? I thought that, along with some of her associates, she would look to advance this fallen agrarian policy that was launched by Veselinov, however, she turned to some new stories, and she promised to have 14 laws in the course of one year, and we adopt two or three, when we adopt four, that's a lot. There were so many ossions when we passed the Seeds Act, she didn't have the decency to call Dr. Professor. Skorić, a world and European expert, who created the best varieties of sunflowers, so to speak, in the world and Europe. Then when he came to the Committee on Agriculture, when we discussed this bill, she got up and left, left the Committee, left the room where we were holding her, disrespecting the man and the seed expert. What to say about when I asked a dozen times about those large loans that were shared during her term of office, and it specifically refers to short-term, long-term and non-refundable. Something that fell into my eye then, I insisted on going through it, but I couldn't, because she didn't want to answer my parliamentary question as a minister of agriculture. Namely, from the Agricultural Development Fund where it stands out, it stands out for irrigation systems. Separated then, that year, in 2005, I think it was 180 million dinars. That's when they only got three subjects, the way we got the report. I asked, as I said, a dozen times, and in writing, and for a pay phone, for Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic and I didn't get to ask the Secretary of Parliament once, and he says he won't give an answer. What are the three entities that got 60 million dinars? Wasn't it more logical for him to get 60 bodies per three million dinars and that they all went with irrigation systems? Why am I saying this? I speak for a simple reason, Mr. Minister, because we cannot boast of our irrigation systems. Namely, some of the findings that I've come up with, and you probably do, are only watering 1.6% of the surface or about 70,000 hectares. You'll probably correct me if I said something wrong. A number of other mistakes regarding then Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic, loans were received by those from G 17 and unfortunately DS. Unfortunately, who's closer to the fire, he's always got those credits, and I don't want to talk about those who aren't coming back. Then, afterwards, he will not come to press conferences, nor to the Committee on Agriculture when something like this appears in the lists, the daily papers that are sold here in Serbia – the Panor Mafia, and below he paints Ivana Dulic-Markovic. We're going to 2007. In 2007 comes Slobodan Milosavljevic as Minister of Agriculture. One of the colleagues of the previous speakers has already said that this man really did nothing for the peasant, for the agrarian, for the promotion of agriculture, absolutely nothing. I guarantee you, if we had put on a carrot egg, chicken and an Noah, he wouldn't have known to show which egg it was. I'm convinced of that. Fortunately for us, the government where he was minister lasted only 10 months. If you look around, and we look back and forth, Mr. Minister, believe me, I would commend you, but I can't because you committed a serious offense, you've allowed 15 key laws to be translated into a principled search and we're talking about 15 laws in principle. I'll start with your presentation, with only one important sentence that I've been able to write down, although I've remembered a lot. You said-- agriculture is our society's engine. I'm telling you, that bike needs to survive the general. He has to go to the real master, or to the real masters, and once that peasant feels that the state is thinking something about him and wants to help him, in any form of help. A peasant needs a financial injection. Do not listen to those who come to you from the field and say: excellent fruit of the wheat this year. Don't listen to them. By playing the case last night on one television I listened to the professor's doctor, I'm not going to turn out to advertise him, the agricultural science, which stands on the surface under the wheat and says - the wheat now takes the moisture at a depth of 50 to 60 cm; that the fruit will be halved. I'm telling you, I'm responsible for this. Now we've got less than 30-40% dropout. Don't count on me to have a sided crop, I mean wheat, cattle barley, oatmeal, or you'll have in this amount that you've planned – I don't think you'll have. Now I'm going to give you a calculation of how the crop of wheat per hectare has passed on by a peasant – his stake and what he will gain. Seeds per hectare of 260 kilos, if we take it as 28 dinars, that's 7,300 dinars. If we get artificial fertilizer, we only go at 3.15 and we're not going with that -- tested, and the components of it, no, we're going with that basic three times fifteen. That's 300 kilos times 4,2 or 100 kg, I'm talking about 4,400, because it was sown in October, and then the price was that, that artificial fertilizer, and that's 12,900. A diet, if he's done a hectare with 250 kilos of device, times 3.2, realistically speaking, is now that price of 3.2 or 100 kg of 3,200 dinars, that's 8,000 dinars. Protection from weeds – I went to minimum with 1,700 dinars. The hectare will not be combined because they take, as they say, 300 kg per hectare, and not in money – 300 kg, you check it. That's right, that's true, this is from the field. This is from the field, not only of the Central Banat County, the Northobanat, but of the Northboa, the Westbok, the Southbanat, the Southbath, and that I'm not speaking completely now, because I've only taken these examples. When we add only diesel per hectare, so you can sow, let's go about 40 liters, and that's somewhere to round 3,000 dinars. Now that we've got it all together, 35,000 dinars a farmer gave and invested in a hectare. If they meet, God forbid, these forecasts and what the weather now shows, and it seems that the peasant has become a pigeon and is only looking up into the clouds, he is now only interested in the clouds, because the irrigation systems can't have, it seems he can't get them, those who get them, get it through some relationships and that 1.6% or 2%, or I think we're underneath, that is. only Albania behind us. If we take it as a offering, and responsiblely claimed by the doctor of agricultural science last night, because over 3.5 tonnes per hectare of wheat will not be, or be that average. Do you know, Mr. Minister, how much is now at the green price of wheat? If he wants to sell it now, which is "green", professionally, it means now to take the money and deliver when the time comes, it is 8.62 on the stock market. The price of wheat, when it comes to July, already in early July, will certainly begin to be harvested from the pruning crops, in particular I mean wheat, there will be no more than 10-11 dinars. When we add that up, the hectare is the minimum in the loss of 4,000 dinars a peasant. I hope after the harvest we'll probably see each other at the fall session, Mr. Minister, and then I'll give you that fact. Unfortunately, the price is not determined by you and the state -- it is determined by the tycoons, by those whom you fight with God, by how you declared "against Serbian tycoons". They're holding the warehouses. You're the one who put the warehouse law here. When I talk about him, I'll talk about what's coming to me, which is the time of the parliamentary group, the SRS, for about an hour. What else was I gonna say? Let's mention, Minister, a little bit and livestock. The livestock was destroyed. A colleague from New Serbia told the truth. We're running out of empty farms, farms that used to be on the tour and 1,000 pieces of pigs, and 500 pieces of tow-heroes, where there were 500 to 1,500 cows, I mean the muzare cows, now with this price of milk of 21,00 dinar, as much as the producer gets, I mean with premium and the rest, if there's no peasant surrounded by production – and now I'm going to explain what rounded production means, he's at a clear loss and he's going to have to start selling cows. What does "rounded production" mean? So there must be land - to produce corn, to give the same corn to the cattle food factory afterwards, to give it certain food that belongs to cows, if he thinks he has more milk than he should have, because only with corn can he have nothing. Next, she's got to have a planted lucerca. He's got to have wheat so he can have a mat, I mean straw, and then he's got to do it on his own. I especially forgot to say about the sunflower, to get a sunflower shotgun, and then I made it around the sugar beet. It's all a part that he has to give that cow to the mazars, so she can have more milk than she can produce, and only for the shade to be in the plus. Again, as for livestock, you remember last year in fact that we had, it comes in winter, so it doesn't pass and pass, the price of a pig of 70 and 75 dinars. You had a strike, they had a cattle strike in front of the government dealing with your pig. Then suddenly it jumped and changed to 150, with a farm of quality 180 dinars. Then that worker who's lost his job, here and there, the peasant is covered, but the one who's out of a job needs to support his family, doing what he knows and can, comes up with the purchase of these final products, and now he's already hinting that the price of a pig's thigh is going to be 500 dinars. But you can't do as much as there are empty farms left and how destroyed. Now don't just tell me that it was destroyed from 1990 to 2000, and part of it that destroyed the sanctions, and it's all been sold here, and the peasant remains in bad agricultural policy. Let me mention, and you are familiar with this, according to some different estimates, it is very difficult to obtain accurate data, neither have you, Minister, in Serbia there are between 4,800 and 5,000 villages. The problem with assessing the exact number of villages in Serbia is that every year hundreds of villages literally disappear. That's what a colleague from New Serbia said, just one piece towards KIM. If the dying trend of Serbia's rural population continues, it is estimated that up to 1,000 villages will disappear completely over the next 10 years. Where is the future of those who remain in the country? Right now, in the country, between 60% and 70% of the old age household, it doesn't turn out to be redecorating the districts that I know because I regularly go around them, I talk to these people who are between the ages of 60 and 80-85, God forbid they live 100 years. You've given up to 40 years, but when you only get one in the country, and there are 50 young people left, you don't have a chance of developing a village and a peasant staying in the country, I mean the young ones, there's no way. You need to take more care and direct this fallen agrarian to those farmers who stayed, you go with that proposal, in fact a regulation, up to 40 years to get something and convince him to stay in the country. The problem is agricultural machinery. It's a huge problem, which I don't know if you'll be able to solve, but I think it's gonna be hard. He says that agricultural land in Serbia is being treated with some 425,000 two-axle tractors, about 260,000 single-axle tractors, 25,000 combineds, God forbid I'm wrong, but I'm not wrong, this is something I pulled out of statistics, and more than three million connected machines. Insufficiently developed traffic infrastructure, and agricultural machinery and equipment are amortised. The average age of the tractor is 18 years and the combination between 15 and 20 years. You can talk me out of it, but you won't be able to, Minister, because from there, from the village, I'm going around the county and I know how to live there. When a regulation was passed on the lease of state agricultural land, I thought it was good for those who wanted to work the country, not to stay parched, but something else had happened. You know well, Mr. Minister, that on several occasions, even before the Minister of Finance, Dragutinović, told Minister Ivica Dacic that I owned from the Municipality of Zrenjanin the abuse of the lease of state agricultural land, that I had 2,015 lists certified by the Commission certified by the licensor, but that according to the documentation I received from you, which I received from the municipality by access to information of public importance, are contradictory. I'll tell you right now. I also received the title from you: Review of the lease contract and agricultural land in the state property of the municipality of Zrenjanin. When I put these four sides together, these amounts that are here, obtained from you and from your ministry, were paid in this catastrian municipality of 74.942.288.69 dinars, and then I get access to information of public importance from the Zrenjanin municipality, in fact now the city of Zrenjanin, which is also known for something else, was paid at 100% 62,664,006,68 dinars. Of which, it is known, the municipality belongs to the lease of state agricultural land 40%, to the province 30%, to 30%, to Serbia. Am I right, Minister? Now I wonder whose document is correct here, and whose is it, perhaps, false? The correct document is the Ministry of Agriculture, as far as I understand you Ministers. If now, according to you, it's been paid to Zrenjanin 74 million, as much and as many dinars, we cut by 62 million, as far as I got from access to information of public importance from the municipality, and now the city of Zrenjanin, I wonder where 12 million dinars are. Who put 12 million dinars away? I know you know he's in Zrenjanin, too, since the town is famous, unfortunately, for the construction mafia, but it looks like an agrarian mafia has appeared. Not only did she show up, but she took root and let go of her roots. Is that by this law, amendments and additions to the Law on the Rental of State Agricultural Land, you want to change that, but you should not have had the minister allow you to rent state agricultural land without guaranteeing the menu, the bank guarantee, the deed to the house, the land. Now they've been working very well for two years. They don't pay anybody anything. That's how I could be. Now that I look here on the basis of your lease paperwork, I see that many have not paid, and I can tell you, hundreds of acres work. Now I won't name them here, let the judicial authorities do it, let the militia do it, UBPOK, those in charge. It's impossible, Minister, that you don't stop this. You have to stop this. A colleague of Zivkov Dragan, a National MP from Old Vienna, said that the land was actually leased to Nicovic, 11,000 hectares; for two years, he paid no one anything. Mr. Minister, what you and I won't agree on is one thing - in this difficult agrarian situation, you're making a professional peasant. The SRS won't agree either because the agrarian is in a difficult situation, very bad, extremely bad. If God does not help us from the clouds, farmers, farmers, individual agricultural producers, paori and peasants will not hope for anything better tomorrow, it will not succeed, even as I have given the wheat calculations, it will also happen with corn. All those who, again quoting Dr. Agricultural Sciences, in the first half of April sown corn and sunflowers, corn that has now reached four to six leaves, the sunflower is about four, and there is still a chance to survive, these are slowly dry, nickle, no more moisture, the culture in the field is lost and there is a screening. Now how do we cross that surface when these rainfalls aren't enough because the pneumatic machine or that Olt's mechanical machine, they can't get to the taban, as the villagers say, to the moisture. Many areas will remain unsowed, and were sown, only thanks to droughts failed as a culture to sustain themselves. We won't agree on professional peasants because you insist, ministers, on the payment of pension and social-health insurance in 2008, and then on those who, by accident, live in the country, the rest of them without a job, the rest of their parents, work there or work at a factory for 10, 12, 15 thousand dinars, wants to continue the tradition that is hundreds of years old by peasants, won't be able to get subsidies because you, ministers, say, can't, we want to have a professional peasant. That's a good way, Minister, an excuse for that reduced budget and for this difficult economic situation, which has unfortunately affected Serbia. You've now found one model that, since the government hasn't given you enough, you've heard from your colleagues, you simply wanted this, by creating a professional peasant, to reduce another 60,000 subsidies you won't give. I'm talking about 60,000 registered agricultural holdings, because you don't have it in your budget, and then there's the story of a professional peasant's father, and I don't want what he does for 10 grand in the factory, 12, 15. What's he gonna do with 15 grand if he's got a student, if he's got two high school students traveling? Can he do that if he doesn't work the country because his father is old or, God forbid, his father and mother aren't alive, and he continues that tradition? Unfortunately, this is, Minister, reality. All this else we can talk to you, Minister, but there's something else I need to say that I feel like the need, in this time of my life that I can expose, which is when I find the right word and say the twilight of a Serbian agrarian. Hopelessness in most Serbian villages, with elderly residents. It is a vulnerabilities among cooperatives and cooperatives, whose new generations of agrarian politicians, anatemised old 'communist' and new 'donor' cooperatives, are no longer able to support the lending of re-romitarians, purchases and placement of market surpluses, as well as complete uncertainty among the remaining workers and non-believers, 'owners' of privatised agricultural enterprises. You need to run a background check on how some of them got into the purchase of agricultural enterprises. They used to be agricultural good, farming cooperatives. They were shopping again. Those who founded a private company forced the driver to buy, as was the story of Bek Meat Industry from Zrenjanin, the driver took part in the bidding, otherwise the man was forbidden to bid on the privatisation agency for three years, and we had the opportunity to see it. And that's another motive for you, Minister, to react and to prevent what else can be prevented, because the peasant can no longer wait. As I said, the infidel 'owner' of privatised agricultural enterprises that have been completely excluded from the agrarian subsidy system are three recognizable socio-economic characteristics of the climate of agricultural policy in Serbia. The consequences of the failure of major and sudden changes in the applicable anti- (agrarian) policy measures, i.e. in agricultural production, whose reproductive cycles last from three to 50 years and require certain stability and long-term duration of these measures, also confirms the external trade in agricultural and food products. Instead of moving rapidly towards a surplus of at least two billion dollars, which is our real option, the external trade surplus of Serbian agriculture and food industry is more than $700m, as achieved in 2007, it was reduced to about $490m in 2008. In the year when the total deficit of Serbia's foreign trade exchange is around $11 billion, instead of at least realizing that with about half a billion of dollars of surpluses, agriculture and food industries, a rational part of the real sector has fallen our economy, our government boasted immediately before that of its credibility because of the same amount of loans from the IMF. But only praise was given to government officials for the debt that the next generations would have to pay back to the IMF, with interest, and the elemental commendation of these same government officials fell by 4.5% for the sweat and suffering of farmers and workers who reduced Serbia's external trade deficit overall. Ignoring the abandoned and complex commendation, food producers received the undeserved in 2009. Two reductions in the agrarian budget of minus 26 and an additional 22%, respectively. Exclusion of all legal persons registered for agricultural activity from the right to agrarian subsidies per hectare of the sown area and the insulated throat of cattle, which is contrary to the constitutional introduction of economic operators into an unequal situation, and likely contrary to some of the provisions of the recently adopted law on the prohibition of discrimination. A reduction in the number of registered agricultural holdings (RPGs) by more than 60,000 owners, as I said earlier, which, after no law, were based on a ministerial statement on the division of profits co-financed and the hobby of the RPG owners, which will not be financed, raised their hands from the false promises of our agrarian politicians. Whether you liked this or not, but the state of the village is a very bad and long-awaited package of these 15 draft laws, which include expert solutions, whose adoption, initiated by our meeting of the Serbian Parliament, will cause many years of legal galatias and chaos in the already traditionally semi-distributed agricultural sector of the economy. What I read, I read because I thought it should be read, because you ministers, in addition to all your goodwill, as much as you want to help the agrarian, are not followed by your party, are not followed by the Prime Minister. You can't tell me that from minus 26 and an extra minus 22% that you'll be able to do what you imagined and wanted. The agriculture, forestry and water industry ministry is expected to present to the public a strategic document on Serbia's agriculture and analysis, normally, and recommendations for the restoration of Serbian agriculture, villages and Serb peasants. You, Minister, need to go to the famous TV public service citizens, to explain to the details what you are doing that title "Serb agrarian twilight" comes from even newspapers, to explain the future of agrarians, to explain to the villagers that there is someone who thinks about them, and they only want you as a minister and from the government to know the price or the price of a agricultural product, because this is the basis for them to know what they will sow on their agricultural land. If I'm to sow wheat, like I did last year, at 50 acres, and then raise it to 11.5 dinars to make the warehouse the most of its benefits. That warehouse sold 24 dinars in four months or that tycoon that had money to buy it. That's where you have to look to help the peasant. Don't let the mixers, please, with how we have quality fertilizer. Now I will quote your statement – the problem with the use of artificial fertilisers in Serbia is both the control and quality of fertilisers. There's no such thing as real control right now, and the inspection is corrupt. This leads to that, even when our farmer uses fertilizer, its effects are quite small. Minister, put your hands in the air, so nice pucks. Not everyone can import fertilizer and sell, or ours can produce, and sell the ground-up tick, those little red granules, gravels, etc., so after the rain, when it's been two weeks, you can only see that you've literally not garbageed that agricultural surface, but you've thrown away the pebbles, and then there's normally no yield. You must take special care of that. If you do it or part of this just do it, I think the peasant will then be able to say – thank God, someone is thinking of us. I'm afraid you won't be able to do it. You said you'd stop with Serbian neck tycoons. I also have to read this, unfortunately, the Minister of Criticism must suffer. We're here to criticize. We're here to try to direct you, to help these peasants, and if you can't, we'll criticize you at every turn. Mr. Minister, you said you would stop by the tycoons for the neck, and look -- agriculture minister Sasa Dragin personally helps Croatian tycoon Dragutin Drku take over a large part of the Serbian chicken market. The owner of "Vindi" from Varazdin, the Croatian tycoon Dragutin Drk, who raised his empire at the time of Franjo Tudjman (just because of this, not maliciously), and who is considered to be one of the leading HDZ financials, plans to take over after the suntanning "Agroziv", the only large company in Serbia (for which you had to see how to revive it, and those who ruined it to shut it down or to do so by those who should have done so), to take over Mr. Drk's control over the Serbian chicken market. Serbian Agriculture Minister Sasa Dragin is helping him in this effort, personally. On Friday, May 8th, Minister Dragin praised the opening of the Dragon Factory for the Production and Processing of Animal Meat "Plans Farms" in the Mountainyard. Croatian Agriculture Minister Bozidar Pankretic attended the opening of the factory next to Minister Dragina. I would have liked it if you and that Croatian minister had agreed and said -- here, we opened a chicken meat slaughterhouse, let's see a Serbian slaughterhouse on Croatia's territory. Let's do this parity, one thing in common. That's the thing. Also, just a dozen days before the opening of the plant in the Croatian tycoon Drk Mountain, beside which Dragin took pictures in the Zagreb media, he said he plans to take over most of the Serbian market with Slovenia's Perutin's Ptuj. You ministers then answer – I am pleased to accept the invitation. The area is an undeveloped municipality with a high unemployment rate, and Vindi invested 14m euros there. She did invest, she did her own laundry. Mr. Drk in Serbia only washed the money he earned there during the rule of Franjo Tudjman and is not the only Croatian tycoon to do this. We have Todorovic in Zrenjanin, who bought the Diamond Oil Factory. There are 160 employees employed, commendable. Besides, "Vindi" used to have significant investments in Valjevo and Lykovec, so it makes sense for me to show up there. For Serbia, every new investment is important, said Dragin, who does not know how the Croatian minister calls on a Serbian counterpart in the territory of the Serbian state. This is strange to me too, Minister, I suppose it was logical for you to invite him and not for him to invite you to the opening of the factory and to take over the chicken market in Serbia. I don't have anything against these guys when they're opening jobs. But I'm against them coming here, buying our market, our factories, which our fathers and grandfathers built, and we're not even at some age that we didn't participate, are now buying, opening, buying our agricultural land, and I don't see that reciprocity in Croatia and Slovenia. Tell me how many of our companies are in Croatia, Slovenia, how many of our people bought a hectare of their agricultural state land, as they call it, now have some special names, some new Croatian language, etc. I don't know how to say it, I know it by those jokes, I wouldn't be here for this pay phone, it doesn't make sense. When you align it, Mr. Minister, you, Government, when we are both on the Croatian and Slovenian markets, and not to serve here, Serbia, Vojvodina, as previously during the communist regime, we Slovenians get sugar in bags, they pack for cafes and cafes in those small packages, sugar back. A colleague mentioned today, our Serbian fruit, was "Fructal" theirs, and Slovenian juices from our fruit. That's what you need to pay attention to. When you set it up, I'm sure someone might thank you, but if you bring it in like this, like Mr. Drk, who came to Serbia to wash the money, I think personally, regardless of those 160 new jobs, it's not going to be good. Everyone's dicking, and even that mayor from Zrenjanin, the construction mob, one Italian factory, an assembly, to see how fast it's coming together, he's suddenly hired so many workers, he's from the DS ranks, and then he fires in three months, and the new workers, because that's how much he gets from the Department of Employment of New Money, and that system goes on everywhere, even here. And you, if you don't, Mr. Minister, make an effort to examine how the difference in the documentation on the lease of state agricultural land in the municipality of Zrenjanin and in all other municipalities, which was both Petar Jojic and Srboljub Zivanovic, that I don't list all other colleagues, Vitomir Plužarevic, if you don't examine it, just look at how much of this would remain in the budget, and that budget would have to be directed by the Prime Minister, that part of the budget, the Ministry of Agriculture. You have to get in the way of people who don't think better tomorrow, and you have them, unfortunately, in your environment. You can't let someone who you haven't checked come from another country, who helped disperse Serbia, come here to buy both the factory and the state-owned agricultural land, to rent state-owned agricultural land, and in the end it turns out to do what they want. I am talking specifically about Todorovic, who owns the "Diamant" oil factory. When a man by buying a factory moved a direction or a transverse or a road passing by the factory, he went towards the Romanian border, across the municipality of Zitište, he went right through Cecnje, now he has to go around the factory. The traffic route, which hasn't changed in at least 30 years, has now changed. He came and did it. Maybe it's banal like this when you say it, but it hurts, it burns. Mr. Minister, there is a difficult task ahead of you because you must be different from the government and the Ministry of Agriculture to the peasant. Otherwise, you won't be able to help, but you'll only promise, and then we'll sit here, defend your bill or try to point it in a different direction, to be much better than you suggested. I'll go back to livestock. Again, I quote your statement - Serbian livestock has been ruined, destroyed and devastated for the last 18 years. This is your statement. If you ask after the session, I'll show you where you said it was, it's not a newspaper. The livestock industry in Serbia, in addition to extremely favourable natural conditions, is in a major crisis. The number of cattle in the last decade has dropped by an annual rate of 2 to 3% and even higher, and meat production has dropped from 600,000 tonnes of 90 years to 450 thousand tonnes today. The consumption of change per capita from 65 to 43 kilograms has been reduced. In particular, it is an unfavourable situation in cattle, sheepmaking and pigmaking. The causes are damaged parity prices, market losses, inability to export, reduced purchasing power of the population, damaged funding system, insufficient assets in the agricultural budget, inadequate functioning of the stock reserves. Speaking of stock reserves, you've done it again, your predecessors, but you inherit whose minister you are, then you have to inherit what's left, but not to keep it, but to help the Serb village, with another fact. I quote where you say - in more than 200 villages there are no inhabitants under the age of 20. There are no residents in 190 villages. In 86% of Serbian villages, population declines, and only 14% increase. Research shows that about 260,000 boys living in Serbian villages today who came close to the 50th year of their lives and did not start families. The reasons for this phenomenon are numerous, and the consequences are catastrophic. Do you agree that the consequences are catastrophic? By doing so, our villages, the white plague, who will continue? We agreed that 60% of the population in the village is a nursing home, which is the part that you should do as a minister of agriculture, finance the development of the village, especially those who remain in the country, and are younger than 40 years old, give them an injection, a financial injection that will bring better both to the Serbian peasant and Serbian agrarian tomorrow. About the analysis of agricultural production, Minister, we can talk a lot more. We will say something through the amendments, gro we will give our opinion as some conclusion, but without analysis and without any strategic document on the development of the Serbian agrarian and village there is nothing. I speak and criticise only because I want to help the peasant, because I live in the country, like most of them here, or a good part of the MPs, in addition to this job, thanks to the votes and these peasants, we are obliged to point out the failures, and I tried to point out the government's failures from 2001, 2002 and 2003, and the Minister of Radinov, I tried to point out the failures in 2004, 2005 and 2006, Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic, and as far as I hear it now, it seems that, when you ruin something, they are improving or setting up conditions from their parties, and now they will be president of the Vojvodina Chamber of Commerce. It's a disaster. Serbian citizens, this is a disaster. And this is most likely and certainly true truth. In 2007, I really can't say anything nice or positive, let's not say nice, but positively say about Minister of Agriculture Slobodan Milosavljevic. He didn't do anything for nothing. Nothing for nothing. At the moment, when I saw, Mr. Minister, these laws, I was kind of happy to see them, but I'm not happy because you, with the help of the head of the ZES parliamentary group, Hope Kolundgia, have allowed them to go 15 laws in principle together. And they're so important. So the other 20 minutes I would use it later and I would look back at one more part of my criticism of the policies you're leading towards the agrarian, and especially the government, which has reduced the budget agrarian from minus 26, so minus 22 and, God forbid, to go even further into the sun, so that you go to minus 50% with this budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19267	The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is 20 minutes, the rest is used. The word was requested by Mr. Minister, Sasha Dragin. I'm just asking you to register with the electronic system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19268	It's always a pleasure to hear Mr. Christin's discussion. I'm very sorry that, as in the previous long period, we couldn't hear him on the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, I think, as he knows, the Ministry's door was always open and he came to us last year for certain reasons and we always had a good discussion. Knowing Mr. Krstin as a man who always takes care of the agrarian, I am sure that his discussion regarding that only agricultural insurance companies can get subsidies is not about that, which he, in addition to having a salary of 75 thousand dinars, is now after a reduction in the Assembly, if we hadn't limited it to agricultural insurance, would have gotten 300,000 dinars for 50 acres of land he deals with. I'm sure Mr. Krstin certainly has an understanding of farmers, that as someone who works in the city and who receives, indeed, a generous salary for his job and, in addition, is exercising the right to some more diaries, he would certainly give 300,000 dinars to other farmers who do not have the right to do so. I believe that it is not for that reason that only registered farmers receive these subsidies, or those who pay pensions. Also, knowing that Mr. Krstin is a man from the base and who is very often in the Banatian district, I am sure that a very big problem is to bypass the Landland when it is passing through him and probably knows that not only a few years ago, when there were great floods and when the Attar in the Plandište municipality was threatened, and when Jaša Tomic was the most injured, but also a few years ago, when Tamish was blue, but not on the right, but on the left, too, through the Romanian Athar, he knows that, as one of my friends from Plandišta said – there God said no good night, but he didn't say a good day. Knowing that, probably, and I hope he doesn't mean it when he says it doesn't matter if someone opens up at the 160-seat plant. From those 160 jobs, 160 families will live in the Mountainyard. What is very important, too, is that the sunflower of the livestock industry in Serbia occurred in the collapse of Agroziv Corporation. The Ministry of Agriculture, above all, has provided all possible support for the recovery of the industry. It's up to the judicial authorities to determine what's going on, and you probably know the situation better. Not just because you're from Banat, but because the privatisation of Agroziva was done out there, at a time when you were participating in privatisation institutions. Not you personally, but your option. Unfortunately, what happened happened. Importing guarantees for the purchase of the following companies and investing in the debt relations of new businesses has created one chain of bicycles that has resulted in a decisive action by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice being stopped and the crime has been prevented. Mr. Krstin, I absolutely agree with what you said about the state's lease. For this reason, there are proposals to amend the law on state land. For that reason, from now on, you'll have to, as we agreed before a few committees of the congregation, pay, and then sign the contract. I'm only sorry that, as your colleague Jojic, you came to the Ministry and told him and those parcels, and he didn't pay for it, because in the past 10 months 200 lawsuits have taken place against people who haven't paid their land. Mr. Krstin, please, since you told me six to seven months ago that you have information about who those people who didn't pay for the land, that same as your colleagues, and like some other colleagues, come and give me the information you have, because it's very important to you, that the state could intervene quickly against these people. Let's see those names, let's see and process them. No one can steal the state, because these money goes for your Banat, for our Banat, 40% of that money goes to local self-government, 30% to the AP Vojvodina budget, 30% to the Republic of Serbia's budget. This money pays off subsidies, people receive pensions from that money. That's the money the agricultural budget needs, as you said, and I'm not absolutely happy with what happened to the budget. It's very important for us to have every penny that can be paid, to be paid. You mentioned the law on food safety, you mentioned that it was very important to carry out inspection, you mentioned it about the quality of the fertilizer, you even quoted me. For this reason, the General Inspectorate, the newly established institution, has written over a year ago over a thousand applications against irresponsible persons from various areas, including, in connection with the quality of the fertilizer. What is particularly important, and I'm sure you didn't mention and separate Serbian tycoons from foreign tycoons, because you support Serbian tycoons. I can't imagine you, Mr. Krstin, being someone who supports Serbian tycoons, or even makes a difference between different tycoons. The tycoons are tycoons and I don't have an absolutely good opinion of them. What's important is that next to that delegation that the Minister of Agriculture had in place, which I opened up the plant in the Plandište municipality, which will ensure that 160 families in the Plandište have a normal job and have something to live on, there was also a theme, you probably followed, since you are interested in what is going on in your Banat, that the Croatian minister has asked that our processing industry and our food industry are actively involved in supplying their market during the summer period with their products, because they do not have enough food. What is also important is that I had the pleasure of hosting at the agricultural fair and a delegation from the Community of Serb municipalities, above all from Baranja, West Srem. We gave them full support in further development and investment of our businesses in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. That's what Mr Pankretic supported. I'm not going to comment on any partial statements in the press. It's their right and that's what's happening to us all. As far as the price goes, I just got a report from the market in Novi Sad. The current price of wheat in Novi Sad with VAT is 11.3 dinars. Mr. Krstin, thank you for the explanation of the calculations. It is very important to know how much agricultural production costs. It's good to bring state subsidies into that calculation, and I sincerely hope that God will look at us, as you said, surely this rain from the other day is welcome and the one that needs to fall on the weekend will come in handy. I sincerely hope that this year's agricultural production will be adequate and sufficient for our market, as well as for exports. What you mentioned, and this is related to the stock reserves, as you know, the Ministry of Agriculture in its opinions, although it is not directly responsible for the stock reserves, insists that the stock reserves be exclusively turned towards agricultural producers, or agricultural cooperatives. What is also important for the wheat market, it is that the ministry insists that all surpluses are exported to a foreign market at the moment and thus makes a greater inflow of foreign exchanges into our country. The best evidence is the government's previous conclusion on exports of 100,000 tonnes of wheat via stock reserves. Thank you so much for your intervention on the city of Zrenjanin. The data the Ministry delivers is always correct. Since the date you received the information, it has increased to some 79 million revenue since the land was issued in the city of Zrenjanin. I don't know about the Zrenjanin information on dates. I sincerely hope the data is correct. It is very important that we have the largest inflow of resources in the future, because these are funds that are directly invested in increasing the quality of land. Mr. Krstin, as so far, the Ministry of Agriculture very much appreciates your commitment to agrarian, and we will work constructively in future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19269	Mr. Minister, I'm under the obligation to say that there were false data in the account you used as an illustration. The pay of the MP was about 75,000 dinars until the adoption of the Law on Temporary Salary Reduction, now the average salary of the MP is about 69,000, and the diaries, as compensation, have been abolished by the decision of the Administrative Committee, so that is not the income of the MP, if this gives some changes in the case you have made. The word has the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19270	Mr. Minister, when you told me about my salary, and now I'm telling you, when I talked about these subsidies, I didn't mention the name Milorad Kristin. I said I'm saying this on behalf of those who work in the factory and have 10 grand, 12,000, 15 grand, and they're making money so they can educate children and that as much as they normally live, they need to be allowed, that you don't create the meaning of a professional peasant. I was talking about them, not my salary. And if we're going to talk about wages, you have, thank God, and 140 grand. Why would I be the one to bring you the paperwork? You're in power, you're a minister. In addition to having every department of the agency, you now want administrations. I don't see why Milorad Kristin or any other MP would have to bring in the paperwork, no matter what I have. As for this Croatian tycoon, Mr. Drak, you managed to hire 160 workers with his help, and Agroziv lost 2,600 jobs. It's not the same as the new 160 jobs, but in my previous speech, I said that you should pay attention and help, and those who illegally destroyed this Agroliv will respond. So my discussion was just about it. So the replica is for 160 jobs at 2,600, how many have gone. As for the price of wheat, I said green. So, not the price of the wheat now on the market, genus 2008, but I'm talking about the price of the wheat that was green, given that I've been here for two or three days. If it's changed for the better, then I can only praise it, but believe me, I'll be happy to see you after the harvest, to tell you at what price I sold 20 acres of cattle barley that I sowed, and it's always there with wheat.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19271	The word has a People's MP, Verica Radeta, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19272	I'm reporting from Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I am convinced that you assumed that, when I answered, and you ignored that announcement, that I wanted to talk about it, and then you kind of beat me to it, of course, not the way you spoke to the MPs. Mr Dragin is a member of the government, but he must respect the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, like all MPs, as well as all participants in the work of this Parliament. Mr. Dragin has injured Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, several times in the course of their long-term exposure. I have no objection that the exposure is longer, of course, than it would be more responsible and better if, Mr Dragin, you had explained, not to Milorad Krstino, not to the people's MPs sitting here, not to the citizens of Serbia, not to the extent that your two-and-a-half times the salary of the MP, but to the questions Mr. Krstin repeated to you earlier: who's responsible for why two-and-a-half thousand people are out of work, and you're boasting that "Perutina Ptuj" will hire 150 new people? Imagine where the comparison is. You're saying Mr. Milorad Krstin has some kind of affinity or I don't know what term you used for Serbian tycoons. No, Mr. Dragin, you have both towards Serbian and Croatian and Slovenian, and you personally and the government of which you are a member. The fact that you're here as nice, nice and cultural is, but it doesn't relieve you of your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19273	You took advantage of the time available to you for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. In an illustration, according to Parliamentarian Milorad Krstina's proposal for a 75,000-dollar salary bill, the minister said that the state would pay 36,000 dinars to such a state and also to agriculture. I felt it was necessary to warn that an untrue fact of illustration was presented, as a law on temporary wage reduction was passed, and in the meantime, the decision of the Administrative Board abolished the diary. It has been announced to both the Minister and the National Assembly. I ask you to avoid entering other persons' qualifications in your argument of injury to the Rules of Procedure, so, what were my intentions or not my intentions. My intentions were to apply the Rules of Procedure and defend the dignity of the National Assembly, and I ask all of us to treat each other with respect and respect. The minister asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19274	It's always good to protect someone who's not strong and stand in front of someone who's not strong in defense, and for that reason, I greatly appreciate your attitude. On the other hand, I'd like to say that the minister's salary is not two and a half times higher than the MPs, but my salary is 80,000 dinars, and I suppose you know that. What's very important, and it's about the information about who didn't pay the rent, the crime of the Criminal Code - not reporting the perpetrator of the crime, there is. That's why if six months ago I got information from you that there was someone who did the crime, that you report it, because you're doing the crime yourself if you don't report it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19275	Does any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups come forward? If not, I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly... . I apologize, MP Milutin Jelic wishes a word as an authorised representative of the NS parliamentary group. You have five minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19276	I would use this time, five minutes, first of all to thank you for your words, and I would like to welcome the MPs, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, in this short period of time, to address the situation in my area where I come from, from Rasin County, from the municipality of Bruce, and about the fruit growers and winemakers, as well as the cattlemen. About 11,000 ha of vineyards were planted 20 years ago in Rasin County. These surfaces are now significantly lower and are about 3,000 ha. The cause is the low price of grapes and peasants are forced to reorient their properties to another production, and more and more and more and more we have unprocessed agricultural areas. In order to deal with this production, when the purchase price of grapes of 15-20diners was last year per kilogram, when it is not worth doing, because at that price they can't even cover the basic costs of processing that land, and about the income that we don't talk about. In my municipality, Bruce, the agricultural households were mostly defined according to fruit, plums and apples, and lately the production of raspberries in a large area is present. The price of plums and apples last year was six dinars for apples, and eight dinars were the ransom price of plums, so these are really miserable prices. These prices can't cover basic costs. It's a similar situation in livestock. Even worse. That applies to the entire Rasinski and Toplička district. In the past, 30 to 40 percent were engaged in agricultural production, and now it deals with 5% of the agricultural population. The purchase price of milk from peasants is 15 to 20 dinars per litre and that is why this production is not worth it. It's twice as cheap as a liter of bottled water, which is a shame and a shame. These prices are humiliating and devastating, with such prices a peasant cannot survive, nor can 50% of direct costs in production cover. Where their profits, where their hard work is, work from morning till nightfall. They're a 100% loss. This situation in central Serbia, in southwestern Southeast, may be slightly different in northern Serbia, Vojvodina, although roses do not bloom there, as we have heard now from some MPs. Because of the lack of care of this government and the country towards the village and the peasants, our villages are becoming more empty and poorer, young people do not want to deal with agriculture, so they move from rural areas to cities or do other jobs, and they are becoming less and less processed by agricultural property. As a result, we have more and more parlogous and unprocessed agricultural areas, and by the way, the import lobby imports everything and everything from agricultural products, from all over, so it is inadmissible that for example in our markets there are garlic from imports, or carrots from China, apples from Spain, pears from Turkey, animal meat from the Netherlands, etc. So I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Resent Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Trade to consider taking care of our agricultural producers and to stimulate them, and to provide them with financial resources through subsidies, regressions, premiums in the production of different agricultural products. I propose that the government of the Republic of Serbia prohibit the import of agricultural products and processed products that are born or can be produced in our country in Serbia, at least until we enter the EU, when we have to. Now we don't have to pay that price. This will best protect our peasant and allow him to place what he produces on his estates on the domestic market. That at least 200 euros per hectare per hectare in flat areas is paid for each hectare, and 400 euros in mountain-mounted areas due to difficult and harsher living conditions. This is how many countries work in our environment and in EU countries. Then, the health and social protection of peasants must be free of charge, for that is the only way we can stimulate it and keep it in the country. All the debts of individual farmers they currently have towards the social and pension funds I suggest they be written off, because the peasants really don't have where to pay from. Pensions, which are the least, miserable so far, amount to about 8,000 dinars, which I said last time, should be equal to the worker, although these workers are not very large and should at least be around 200 euros, so that they can survive and that would be one of the stimulants for young people to stay in the country to process the country and not be a parlog. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19277	You've used the time of your authorised representative, and since the time of the group's MPs, you have seven minutes and 48 seconds left. Are any of the other authorised representatives or presidents answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The word was sought by Minister Sasha Dragin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19278	Mr. Jelicic, thank you very much for your good discussion. What I can tell you is that, for the reasons that you have stated, the Ministry of Agriculture has put Bruce municipality in marginal areas this year, which means that the conditions that other municipalities have to meet the municipality of Bruce doesn't have to meet, that it's a far easier way to get subsidies on the territory of the municipality of Bruce as an extremely undeveloped municipality. By the way, during 2008, the ministry paid about 1.3 billion for orchards and vineyards, for raising new plantations of vineyards and orchards, and we hope that the pace will continue and speed up in some future time. What you mentioned, which is related to the import lobby, the new food safety law is significantly tightening the dumping of imports into our country and this administration will absolutely not allow it. You also mentioned debt to pension insurance. As you know, we've already managed to change that system by when you go to pay for retirement insurance in agriculture, you don't have to pay anything before 2008. It took a lot of effort to do that, and we plan to write off all debts before 2008 according to pension insurance together with the competent ministries. You know how big these claims are, according to individuals, over 500,000 dinars and millions of dinars. In this way, we will meet farmers, that people who have no place to pay, or at a time when the state absolutely gave nothing, have not found the opportunity to settle their debts towards pension insurance in agriculture. I think this is something that's been waiting for a long, long time and will finally find a solution this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19279	We're going to the debate, and we're going to do it on the floor. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the Parliamentary Group of Minorities, the New Serbia MP group, the LDP parliamentary group, the SPS-Single Serbia group, the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group, the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group, the G17 plus parliamentary group, the SRS and the MEP group for European Serbia. The first on the list, and according to the application for a word, is MP Arpad Fremond and he gets the word, and after that, MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19280	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, before I begin my presentation on some of the laws, allow me to ask again some questions that I have already asked in the previous presentation, and I have not received the answers. First of all, it's about supporting non-competition agricultural holdings. On 26.2.2009, the Ministry of Agriculture adopted the Regulation on the use of funds to support non-competition agricultural holdings, which was due to apply in 2009. This regulation should help the Ministry of Agriculture, worth 40,000 dinars, to help our farmers who have the lowest salary in Serbia. Unfortunately, after 45 days, the Ministry of Agriculture abolished the validity of the Regulation on the use of resources to support non-communicated agricultural holdings by the Interruption Regulation. We must remind you once again that Mr. Boris Tadic, during the campaign, promised our oldest farmers this support, even more. That's why we don't understand such a reaction from the government and the Ministry of Agriculture. I'm interested in why this regulation was repealed and how many farmers from 26.2. to 15.4. registered the land as non-commercial? The second question is, who will compensate them for these registration costs, and is the Ministry willing to do so? The second topic mentioned is drought in the territory of the state, which is the largest in the northern part of the state, in fact. I didn't get an answer as to what the Ministry of Agriculture was doing about it? We MPs of the Duke Hungarian Union are asking you to check the situation on the ground and respond to that. The third mentioned problem was unpaid subsidies. I'm interested in when will the Ministry of Agriculture pay off subsidies to all agricultural producers and related to 2008? Now, let me, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities, present our suggestions regarding some of the laws in the agricultural law set. We have three laws that are most important to us MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, which are the law on agriculture and rural development, which I have already spoken of and made our suggestions. The other two laws are the draft law on public storage for agricultural products and the draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act. As far as the proposal for a law on public storage for agricultural products is concerned, we believe that this law will facilitate the conditions of lending of our farmers, who are unfortunately currently without credit and without subsidies and thus cannot survive. This law regulates the conditions for determining public storage facilities for agricultural products, conditions and means of issuing authorisations for the operation of public warehouses, conditions and method of use. The need to ensure a higher level of legal certainty, as well as the development of the transport of agricultural products through the exchange of paper, has led to the need to establish a system of public storage and goods records, which is why the adoption of this law is proposed. The owner of the trade record can use the trade record as a stock for a short-term loan or sell a trade record, which is for our very good for our farmers. We believe that this law will only develop agriculture with this kind of move. A large number of countries, with developed agricultural markets, developed trade records as an instrument that facilitates access to short-term loans and trade in agricultural products. This solution is also considered to be good because the Ministry of Agriculture in the budget rebalancing in 2009 in order to have enough resources available, from the sub-accounts of the Agricultural Development Fund, it took us 4,600,000 dinars. This fund has so far been funded by the Ministry of Agriculture by short and long-term agricultural loans and, unfortunately, in 2009, our farmers will be left without these opportunities and we do not know what awaits them in 2010. As far as the law, or the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, is concerned, we should say that for us MPs of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, this law is also very important, especially because we support our small agricultural producers, which is the most in Serbia and we believe that they require the most assistance. However, we have a few suggestions regarding this law. We also proposed amendments to make this law even better and more effective. It is good to have local self-government and to rent agricultural land in state property. In practice, there have been some disagreements, and we hope that this addition of the law will solve all the problems and disagreements related to the renting of agricultural land in the state property. The agricultural land law could not affect various tycoons, which easily reached agricultural land before our small and poor peasants. It should stand before us a law adopted in Denmark, which regulates the lease of agricultural land in the state property, that the right to rent only has that agricultural producer who lives within 30km of the land he wants to rent. The problem is that the previous ministry, i.e. the leadership of previous ministries, e.g. In 2006 and 2007, the Ministry of Agriculture did not charge the rent, but allowed the rent of individual tenants to be extended. Of these years, there has been no order in charging agricultural land in Serbia, which has affected the immorality of certain tenants. Of course, these proposed additions to the law, in the opinion of SVM MPs, are well regulated by these matters and I must therefore commend the Ministry of Agriculture, headed by Minister Dragin. As for the other laws and our individual amendments, we will discuss this in particular, where we expect from the Minister of Agriculture full co-operation and adoption, of course, of our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19281	The word has a minister, Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19282	I thank Mr. Arpad Fremond for a good discussion. As for the parliamentary questions you've asked about supporting non-communicators, you've been answered in writing, probably not given a written reply, but since I've already mentioned that answer here, I could repeat it again now, and you've already received it in writing, I'm guessing they haven't given it to you yet. It is that this year, among other things, pension households could apply for subsidies of 12,000 dinar per hectare, with one third of the funds they applied for. That's how we bridged that me. As for the credit-related suggestion, absolutely be assured that there are enough funds for lending agricultural production for this year, since the "rivencing" system and this system is such that it simply has enough resources in the ministry right now and in the fund. As for drought, there is a body in the government, as you know, which is unfortunately not managed by the Ministry of Agriculture, which can declare an elemental disaster. I sincerely hope that the same attention is being followed, as we at the Ministry are following meteorological opportunities. As you know, there have been two rainy days this week that have greatly improved the situation. They're expected from Saturday's fallback, they'll make it possible, I sincerely hope, that this production ends properly, and that spring production is not at stake, because that's a really big problem right now. As to the part you mentioned for the outstanding subsidies for 2008, as you know all subsidies of 12,000 per hectare have been paid. The debts we have are related to the transferred liabilities, primarily in the livestock sector. I have already noted, because of a regulation that has not been well defined, it is very large, so to speak, paperwork, or we can say that almost half of the people in the Ministry are currently dealing with the treatment of livestock subsidies. Also, there was a large number of malfeasances, which was determined by the Inspector General, and I informed you on one of the previous assembly committees about it. Thank you for your support of the laws, and as far as these remarks concerning the Danish law are concerned, that's exactly how the Danes regulated it. So, 30 kilometers from the ownership, that's what cuts costs. We've regulated it in a similar way, we've even reduced it, because these catastrian municipalities aren't that big. So the advantage is farmers living in that catastrian municipality. Most of the Catastrian municipalities aren't too big, so in fact that's it, so we can say that this suggestion is also consistent with what the Ministry's policy is in this case. Once again, let me thank you for your cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19283	The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. The time available for the parliamentary group is seven minutes. After her, the word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Secretary, I'm glad you're finally here. We're people from the same atom, although we haven't eaten the same bread, I'm still a peasant and a pastoral child, I like to say that expression - a paoric child, and I know this subject well. I very much resent that you have allowed this important issue, the most important issue in Serbia today, to be discussed in this way, that 15 laws go as one point of the agenda and only to empower this high home to touch the most serious topic. First of all, you are at a great loss, because you will be denied for many serious, meaningful discussions of MPs who know this topic. You just heard Mr. Krstin's discussion, which I have listened to very carefully and which I fully sign, first of all, because I know it is the life we have in the country today, and yet you see, although you are the Minister of Agriculture, a village from another visor. That's what the illusion of professional peasants confirms. Professional peasants, or professional farmers in Serbia at the moment are indeed a utopia that can live in another time, but in this way they will not be able to, because the best and cheapest for the state, at this point, the country is being processed by those people who have other jobs. Those people who, like me, inherited it from their parents, so because it has some other value, they can't sell it, because I'm in a position to subsidize my production, and those people who only live on the ground today are very hard to live on and they're very buried if they're in any kind of credit. You know what the problem of mortgage loans is, and I'd very much like to hear what the Ministry thinks about taking mortgage loans from those peasants who, Mr. Krstin said, you've inherited some of the problems of previous ministers and some of their delusions, of course some of their mistakes, and you're obliged to at least try to solve it, how are you going to deal with the problems of the exactly mortgage loans of the peasants who are in charge? There are also young people who had honest intentions and great ambitions, so they took the milk cows so they could start some production, and now they're in a position not to know whether to slaughter cows or to slaughter themselves. It's very difficult to wrestling with the very loans they've been submerged into, because some other incomes don't have. We have faced this ransom that is not organised in Serbia. There is, of course, the intention to protect consumers, but the intention to protect producers is the first intention that must be clear in this law. You've agreed, and that's good, with many of our discussions, because you've seen, you're going to the field, what's going on. You also agreed that the agrarian mafia is very present, and that's the legacy that you have to deal with, and you have to do it much more energetically, much faster, because agriculture is the area that depends, most of all, on God's laws, not to say natural laws, and we have to respect that. The peasants are now paying one big toll of sushi. All of us who do land in Vojvodina know what it has brought, we know what it means when you don't have enough plants within, say, 50 to 70 thousand corn, so when it fails by the hectare, we know what damage only a single pneumatic seed can do, if you don't fit the gears and the belt, so instead of 23 to 25 centimeters apart, it sows, let's say 15 centimetres apart. So, just so you know, it's a field, one area we know, and a lot of it, and after that, we're going to eat bread with pleasure and do it, but you've got to do all these problems really energetically. I'm really interested in how you're gonna deal with that mob that's selling us that non-quality fertilizer and how that control is going to be introduced, because we really want to buy and dump the fertilizer, not the garbage, you understand? So by buying the fertilizer, I think at least this way we flushed out that garbage that's stuck in the agrarian mafia all over the area. That is what I am interested in. How will you deal with it? Peasant pensions - I would not even talk about it, because this is the most painful issue of today's peasants in Serbia, today's elderly household in Serbia, where pensions are at least, the bloodiest are earned and are truly owed to them. I don't see that anyone for these peasant pensions is particularly committed, because they're pensioners who are left to themselves. What everyone is happy to rely on – it is that the peasant will not leave his country in the parlogus, because it is a sin of God and it will somehow be fed and survived, but the peasant households are so old, i.e. an old agricultural machinery, in which young people and when they stay in the country, we know that they remain for some other reasons, and not for love, very hard to invest and survive in this way. Today's village has been rejuvenated by the power of opportunity, not once with the intention of developing a technological thing there. It would be good to consider the administration making a new settlement of our village, one in fact resolving the agrarian issue by directing people there and life, as some European countries have done. Of course, as it is at this point, a utopia that we won't solve easily. I'm putting her on as an idea. I think the Ministry needs to think about it. I really just want to remind you, Minister, of what we expect. Since I said we're from some same atocrat, I expect you to come to Sombor, West-Baba County, and resolve those very unfair privatisations of ours, those 10,000 lands that go from this country to that of Mr. Jerkovic, the "Special Product" to "Azohem" to "Azohem", to see what happens. Who's finally going to plow this country? I hear those four and a half thousand acres he kept in the parchment finally had to give the peasants to process, because that's not who anymore. It's also a step forward, but you know it's been lost for a while. Peasants can't stop natural currents, they can only hump blacks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19285	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19286	I thank Mrs. Djeric. I believe that Mrs Đeric does not belong to those who are wrongly who, as someone who does not pay for a pension internship in agriculture, cannot receive funding from a grant for the country, which she has inherited from her parents, we have heard what is the parliamentary salary. There are also doctors, lawyers, people who made a lot of money during their work and invested in land because they know that by entering European integration, land prices go three or four times up. These are people who have never seen agricultural land in their lives, let alone a flat or a plow, or a shovel or an ace. For this reason, it is important that those who really work the land get the money. In order to pay off a pension in agriculture, someone must pay off the pension fund, not that the money from the agrarians goes to lawyers, doctors, businessmen, small, large and other, tycoons or anyone else – from Serbia's agrarian budget, which is definitely small, which we probably all have already absorbed. As far as mortgage loans are concerned, for this reason we are proposing a law on public warehouses, because in such a way, the farmer will no longer have to be in debt based on his property, but on his own product. In that way, we won't have to harvest to sell his product, when he's usually the cheapest, but he'll be able to wait when it's a good price to sell it. Through that loan, we signed an agreement with the IBRD to monitor, with extremely favourable loans, the public storage system, in such a way as to base its production. Of course we should deal with the agrarian mob. There are various forms of agrarian mafia - of those who don't pay for a country for which they have numbered acquittal sums, and amendments to the land law make that right – which they will have to pay first, then only then do they sign contracts for that land. We have a very explicit example of the agrarian mafia around Cačka, where a man even built a large facility and wanted to build a hospital on agricultural land. (Repeats of the Messenger: Who is it? It doesn't matter. We've got somewhere written down. In addition, as far as inspection controls are concerned, I can tell you, now I've got the exact information, that this year as many as 208,692 inspections have been carried out, 4,831 misapplications have been filed, 489 for economic crime and 218 criminal charges, a lot of these reports are related to the quality of the fertilizer. I also mentioned the age of machinery. This year, for the first time, we launched an initiative by the Ministry of Agriculture, when we saw that there was an opportunity to rebuild the car fleet, to include a rolling stock in the agricultural machinery in such a programme. Why not have a farmer have a similar opportunity to restore his mechanism, which is now about 15 years old in Serbia. Let's say, before the Guarantee Fund of the AP Vojvodina and the Fund and for the development of the AP Vojvodina set out to subsidise the purchase of machinery five or six years ago, it was five and 30 years old. Now she's been a circus for 15 years. Our goal is to achieve an age below the age of 10. I spoke at the Agricultural Fair a few days ago with the director of IMT, who told me that so far was a problem to sell, and now they can't make enough. I sincerely hope that this will continue to be a problem, or that they will never be able to make enough to sell. I sincerely hope that even now, so to speak, someone who wants to marry will also buy, and that there will not be so many repetitive privatisations of IMT, and that people who want to buy building land IMT will not want to take, but rather someone who really wants to do the tractor production – will buy such a thing. What's wrong with Sombor is definitely a problem called Jerkovic. We all know what that looked like. So, for the guarantee, you give what you bought before, so you take the loan, and then you get the next one, and then the next one, and then the next one, and then you make one rope round, you basically guarantee one unpaid asset for another. The state has taken control of "Alex Shantic" and of the other goods that this man has held so far. Workers of "Alexa Shantic" process the country and this is the best way to show that the state cares about people who are employed there and have not earned the consequences and sacrifice of irresponsible property buyers. As far as I'm concerned, and what I think about privatising agricultural enterprises, I'll tell you very clearly. I think privatisation in Serbia has been done very badly in agriculture. I think the right way was something, as was done in some countries in the environment, where some of the capital should first be offered to farmers, cooperatives, cooperatives, call them whatever you want, because that would make a strong connection between primary agricultural production and processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19287	National MP Zlata Djeric, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19288	I just have to replicate. First, to thank for the amendments we have submitted, New Serbia has submitted an amendment to the Republic of Serbia's budget, where we have asked for the allocation of funds to subsidise the purchase of tractors, the amendment has been adopted and I think the action is now under way. I am proud of our contribution as a political party. Secondly, as for the hospital that someone in the area of Cačka tried to lift on their private agricultural land, although I doubt that at that height agricultural land could be otherwise used, even the best thing to do is to have something come up, someone else would have built a cottage and believe me, nothing else would have planted. Let me just ask you, do you have any information as to how many buildings have been erected in Vojvodina on agricultural land, which is safely and 100% usable to a much greater extent and extent than this is in Chačka?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19289	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19290	I can only be with incredible surprise and pleasure to realize that you know each other so well in agriculture, that even anonymous construction contractors on agricultural land in Chačka know each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19291	The word is from Ambassador Kenan Hajdarevic. The time available for the LDP parliamentary group is 14 minutes and 24 seconds. After him, MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19292	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is difficult to talk seriously about a set of these extremely important LDP agricultural laws, in 14 minutes about 15 laws, or just over 50 seconds after one law, so I will talk more about some of the principles of politics. It is clear to us, from the LDP, and we support the need to bring our legislation into line with EU legislation and that we can support you, however, we cannot support, nor support what the Serbian government has done and is doing, because if we have shown understanding in December, or January, to adopt a unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement as a short-term measure, it is unacceptable for us to see the Serbian government as clearly a long-term solution. Mr. Minister, when not already in the opening statement, said that the unilateral transitional trade agreement affects agriculture, or how much agriculture, farmers pay the Serbian government's inability to fulfil obligations to The Hague tribunal, or the failure of the ruling majority to adopt at least one declaration here to allow the trade agreement to be applied bilaterally. Mr. Minister, at least in the opening statement, you should have said that it would have an impact on the 2009 reduction of the 2009 agricultural budget and the 2009 rebalance compared to 2008, i.e. on what impact the anti-urban protection funds will have, which are about one-third compared to 2008 now in 2009. When you speak, for example, in the context of the Proposal for a Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, we absolutely agree with the LDP, where you say that the adoption of this law is necessary to systematicise and define the objectives of agricultural policy, set up a system for the use of distribution and state incentives. That's exactly what the LDP has been saying so far about the policy of all governments that were in the previous period. When you talk about the means to implement this law on agriculture and rural development, you say, among other things, on page 15, that in the 2009 budget about 120 million dinars will be allocated for the implementation of this law. Is that meant by this budget? We believe that, finally, the government, or the ruling coalition, should say that agriculture or agricultural production is not a substitute for reducing unemployment, that in the EU, or in Europe, only 2-3% of the total labour force deals with agriculture. We should also publicly say here that our agricultural holdings are extremely small, that the average of our agricultural holdings is slightly above three hectares, while the European average is six times higher, and that the yields per hectare of our holdings are two to three times lower than the yields by European standards. What we should support is what you wrote in one of these arguments of these laws, which is that you have consulted, or had meetings with representatives of Slovenians, or the Slovenian Government, which we support, because Slovenia is obviously the best example of what the EU means in agriculture, because we all remember in the 1990s, when we said that Slovenians will not be able to live because they do not have our farms, but we have experienced that in 2009 we adopt laws that we have made and we adopt similar laws to the laws of the Republic of Slovenia. We disagree, that's what Mr. Marash was saying, that incentives can only be received by those agricultural producers who have reconciled their obligations to the state. You responded, Mr. Minister, to Mr. Maraš that this is among other European practices, however, a lot of things in this country should become European practice. When we talk about farmers, especially farmers from that rural, mountainous and mountainous part of Serbia, we should first see what conditions these farmers live in, whether these are European conditions, and then ask them to respect these European values, or how the state has provided farmers, for example from the Priboj municipality, who have four times to cross the state border to obtain the necessary material, and they have no other way to adhere to these European principles. I will show the same great problem that incentive funds rarely come to these Sandzak border municipalities, i.e. in Priboj, and to Prepolje, Tutin, Sjenica. When we talk about livestock, it can be noted that the livestock fund in Serbia falls year after year, especially when we talk about municipalities in Sandzak. I'll give you just some information that your ministry should be dealing with, for example, when we talk about sheep, in the Tutin municipality in 1999, there were about 27.5 thousand sheep, and in 2005, 19 thousand, there were about 13.5 thousand in Novi Pazar, in 2005 -- 8 thousand, there were 27 thousand sheep in the Sjenica municipality in 1999, while in 2005, there were about 17,000 sheep in 2005.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19293	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19294	I thank Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic for his discussion. I would like to say that the impact of budget cuts is obvious and it is really difficult for us to meet all those demands imposed on us by agriculture in Serbia. For this reason, we are indeed all the resources that we have and which have made available to us exclusively for subsidies to agricultural producers, as you know. What is related to anti-urban protection, in a conversation with RHMZ director Mr. Milovan Dacic, I received information that currently there are 12,000 rockets on the lager, namely that 5,000 new rockets were purchased this year. It takes about 12,000 rockets a year, which is about 5,000 rockets to cross. These 12,000 missiles need all the anti-building stations to be secured, of course not all the missiles are fired, a very small portion is used. What is also very important to point out, is that we are preparing a programme to switch to anti-building protection in a far more modern way by sowing from the plane to the silveryodide, because this is how the whole EU works. During some transitional period, we are holding negotiations with the Ministry of Defense to put soldiers in charge of the anti-building stations, because the military faces are far more trained to handle these missiles. I think it's a way to make significant savings in this area. What is also important to note is that the entire project to raise our country's capacity from institutional upgrades, and related to the agriculture and rural development law, i.e. the Agrarian Payments Administration, is also funded by the EU and we are working to raise that administration with Hungary and some other EU countries, so that some of the co-financing goes through European funds. While, as you know, it's also part of the state administration, part of it is co-financed in such a way, so we can say that our financial structure is definitely concluded. What is also important to mention here is that I would like to thank the town of Sapac, who has come into contact and which is one object, this is the House of Health, which has given us the free use of, or even the city's adaptation of the facility and thus the decentralisation of the state administration, which is the best example of democracy in some society. Not everything has to be in Belgrade and Novi Sad. For this reason, we will move the Agrarian Payments Administration to the town of Sabac and thus allow one agricultural region to raise one of the most important institutions for the agrarian of this country. As for the problems we have with border municipalities, especially in areas towards Montenegro, the ministry is really trying to get people to meet, even phytosanitary permits are issued jointly, so that they can transfer their products to markets that are traditional to them, to neighbouring countries. There is indeed a significant damage to our country, or people living in these border municipalities. It is very important that we help in these very municipalities, these are also marginal municipalities, they have far better conditions for obtaining and grants and subsidies, allow for construction and public storage. We already have several projects of this type that we also negotiate with local self-governments, and it is very important, in addition to these things, to enable local self-governments to form local funds for the development of agriculture, especially since these are municipalities, which you mentioned, traditionally facing small agricultural production. I was almost in one of those municipalities. It's mostly vegetable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19295	The word is from Ambassador Željko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19296	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, respected associates, when we talk about agriculture in Serbia, and especially about this set of 15 laws that are joined, i.e. in the form of a united debate, cannot be achieved much in a brief debate, and it is noticeable that the minister is persistently not answering one single question, which is how he estimates that the average MP can, for example, the DSS, in 20 minutes, the entire parliamentary group, and with others, say Nova Serbia seven minutes, discuss a set of 15 laws. I will be free again, as others, to read them – the law on agriculture and rural law as a roof law, on food safety, on plant health, on plant feeding and on land processing agents, on plant protection, on wine, on rakia and on other alcoholic beverages, on ethanol, on public storage for agricultural products, on genetically modified products, on the addition of the law on the reproductive material of forest trees, on the proposal for a law on livestock farming, as a system law, on animal welfare and amending and supplementing the laws on agricultural land. It's just that it's real, and it's hard and bad by the ruling coalition, I'm not saying that the government did it, it's known who puts the agenda together, but it would be correct by the minister if we heard the opinion. That's what a few MPs asked him. As for budget rebalancing, I mean, more things I'm going to say on behalf of citizens who wanted to ask in the form of parliamentary issues, it's not Tuesday and Thursday today, it's Friday, but I'm going to use that in certain situations that the minister, I hope, as well as everyone so far, will respond to, to transfer from Melenac, Choke, Backe Topola, etc., a few suggestions and things to say, of course I will have something to say in person. The budget rebalance is a really interesting thing. What we were saying in the debate about him, it's that he's not developed, there are no elements that could be called the development budget. There's the most damaged agriculture. We also pointed out that in a public debate, wherever we could, in the media, and here for the assembly speaker, and I am very interested in the minister's opinion, how he characterizes this budget rebalance on this matter, only on agriculture. Of course, the Ministry will try to guide subsidies where they need to go to a greater extent, etc., but the fact that agriculture in my opinion has been given this budget rebalance is a difficult blow. Let me talk about the numbers a little bit. Serbia's total foreign trade deficit is about $11 billion, but when you look at the area of agriculture and food industry, we've heard more times and we know who's following, the surplus has been achieved by slightly less than six million. Therefore, the country's external trade deficit has been reduced by 4.5%, although the country's real aid is not available. How interesting is this number of surpluses in the first place is when we compare it to the praise of the government that provided a loan from the IMF in a similar amount. That's very interesting. Of course, in addition to agriculture is our great chance, our largest export business branch and what should be done with it. When compared to previous governments, the situation in 2007, the surplus was somewhat larger and the fact was that it could be planned to transfer not only a billion dollars but also more, but the fact that the surplus is stagnating, not to say that it is in a slight decline. Why is that happening? I don't think the country is adequately, properly to agriculture. When I say state, I don't want to accuse the Ministry of Agriculture, but I think the general policy of the government is a little politics, I repeat, that's what rebalancing proves, thrown aside. As far as the development program is concerned, this rebalancing and at all relationships, it can be said that something was given to Bor or Kragujevac, but generally agriculture is in trouble and that's what every farmer will tell you, and it certainly tells you who doesn't have any hair on his tongue when he sees you, when you come to visit him. You've had two cuts in the agrarian budget of 26 weeks. 22%. I will remind you, the first government of Vojislav Kostunica in 2004, the first thing that the government did, 3.5 times increased the agrarian budget, which was the government's first action. It's worth reminding of. We're being written by economic operators, to put it this way, about the release of legal persons in relation to the physically registered agricultural activity and the right to agrarian subsidies per hectare of planted area and the murky throat of cattle. They say it's against the constitution. That's what we're going to ask you in the form of a parliamentary matter with a broader explanation, so we're going to discuss it. Mr. Fremond said part of what I wanted about unpaid subsidies, about loans. You answered correctly. The theory is one thing, but in practice when you go among farmers, they will keep telling you what Mr. Fremond said. It's a very awkward situation. It's always a good idea, but realisation is extremely hard to come by. Nearly a quarter of the agricultural holdings registered have been released because they are non-commercial. We can say that those 40,000 dinar promises per year turned out to be a kind of false promise and that's what Mr. Fremond was saying. When you compare Denmark, you say you'll have the advantage of who's within 30 kilometers, but Mr. Fremnod was precise, in Denmark you won't have the advantage, but within that 30km you'll be the one who can count on agricultural land. One more thing, the AP Vojvodina Development Fund, which, apart from being able to participate, we doubt that, in pre-election campaigns, it gives most of the funding to agricultural projects. What about the Serbian Development Fund? How much is your view of this situation and how many projects are there from the Serbian Development Fund? Well, we've got some very disturbing data that there's almost nothing about agriculture here, so I'd like to hear from you more about it. All in all, we think the theory is one thing, but the general strategy is not that it's compromised but it's gone, we don't feel it. A classic farmer when you visit him he says that – I feel no strategy, no concern of the state. Significant subsidies and significant funds farmers do not feel aid from the state. When I say states on purpose I speak of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because I do not want to speak of the Ministry at all as a ministry, because I am a representative of the theory that the government and this budget rebalance have significantly damaged vital ministries, and one of them is where you are minister. I think, unfortunately, only through the amendment debate can we talk about these 15 laws and I find that sad and sad. I hope you and your associates have looked at these amendments and will be able to continue to participate in this kind of cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19297	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19298	I thank Mr. Tomic. As I said at the meeting we had in your parliamentary group, absolutely all amendments have been read and any amendment that will improve the quality of the law will be accepted. As for the time in the congregation, I avoid saying it, but you gave the answer to that question and I would agree with that answer. It's not the government that defines it. It's the National Assembly. How do we characterize budget rebalancing? The resources available to the Ministry are insufficient and I find it very difficult to come up with any questions in the meeting and agricultural producers. That's what I said on many occasions. For this reason, we try to get our priorities out to farmers and those who live exclusively from agriculture, who exclusively spend their working day in a barn or in a field to meet. What is important, and you asked a question about the Serbian Development Fund, I suppose you know, we were coalition partners in the previous administration, two-thirds of the Fund for Development of Serbia is referred to agriculture and food industry, which is the most vital industry in our country and participates in the country's income with 23%, together with agricultural production. That's it. As far as the other things are concerned, we are, absolutely, whatever it is we are here to improve every law we have offered here for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19299	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic, followed by MP Zoran Masic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19300	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Mr Minister, the co-workers of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS-JS parliamentary group certainly supports the debate on the set of agricultural laws, knowing that there are a number of problems in this area and that all relations in this area should finally be better arranged, and that area is a broad spectrum. For these reasons, our parliamentary group will vote in favour of these laws, because they will define everything we have today as a problem in agriculture and we hope that the situation in the area of agriculture will be better governed by the laws we are making, and at the same time it is certainly important that these are harmonised with EU legislation. Of course, there are many things in the proposed laws that are worthy of praise in relation to the previous situation, but it is worth saying what many today are clear, and we are always talking about it today, that agriculture, or food production, is one of the three strategic sectors of our country. In all the times of crisis, history has shown that agriculture, our peasant and village and its food production were crucial in overcoming all the problems in unfortunate times. Now, at a time of the global economic crisis, the crucial role of agriculture and what would be the export orientation of food production in Serbia. The government must protect the interests of our traditional food production, including the specificities of traditional production of brandy, wines of geographical origin. Incentives of agricultural production, providing rural development funds would allow for a more uniform, more even development of Serbia, which is certainly issue number one, as this uneven development of Serbia today is the main enemy, one municipality of destruction and a poor perspective of Serbia as a whole. On this issue, it is very important that we pass the exam within many areas and many ministries are in charge of this. We also have a ministry bearing that name, but certainly when it comes to agriculture, a uniform development of Serbia has some chance of achieving certain effects through these areas. The SPS-JS parliamentary group also has certain critical observations in relation to the proposed laws, but not with the aim of denying your efforts and trying to settle matters in agriculture, but in the hope of further and future grooming and adapting our reality and the needs of agricultural production and producers of all these things that we have in the area of agriculture. It's clear that I think it's impossible to have the ambition that by passing these 15 laws, we're going to be able to solve all the issues perfectly for a future time and we're done with this job. The first adoption of a full set of laws relating to a broad range in the area of activity from miles of agriculture, at one point is not natural or can come out as valid and solid legislation. Some laws are roofy, although people in the profession say they're too classy and that's the roof's wrong definition. It is natural for some laws to come from the application of previous laws and therefore takes time to verify the validity of such a law. It is impossible in 15 laws to agree at the same time all the provisions that would regulate many relations and all the issues and aspects of agriculture. Despite the European legislation and their standards that we are pursuing, we must also respect our reality. This is just a few findings and reflections of our parliamentary group, which perceives the complexity and complexity of the whole of this issue, which is really of great importance and very complex. Secondly, in the amendments to the Agricultural Land Act, which was passed only two years ago, when it was praised as one of the most significant and valid reform laws, today we have its changes and additions. So life and practice have shown that something is wrong and that it needs to be adapted, as I have observed in the previous presentation. However, today, when criticising what is the situation in agriculture, we have to realize that part of the responsibility for the situation in agriculture or for the validity of the law is not only on one government, and it is especially not on the current government, but that this responsibility for the situation in agriculture also has previous governments, and this one before this, and the previous one, etc. There are a number of examples that can point to this, because it's about one continuity, one area, and you can never at one time ad hoc solve all the issues. Attention should be paid to the preservation and care of certain values from earlier periods when talking about agriculture. We have, back in time, the fact that by cleaving arranged land complexes in the held property, an economic destruction of all investments so far and decades of planning, protection and economic use of regulated and large land complexes is being done. In addition to this, they also say various analyses, how much they cost and how much investments to provide the necessary machinery per hectare, depending on the size of the farm, so one such analysis by Prof. Ratko Nikolic from Novi Sad, from the Faculty of Agriculture, says that a farm of 60 hectares needs 3,250 euros per hectare of investment for machinery, and for a farm of 900 hectares is required 825. When it is subtracted, it is 2,500 dinars, and if it is taken to divide about 300 hectares of state-run land into farms of 60 hectares, we get a 750m-euro figure, conditionally said, a loss that contributes to one incompetence compared to what the entities of production are in the EU. In the case of pre-rent lease rights, one of the criteria should also be the number of economically active members of the land, as individuals rent hundreds of hectares of state land and do not have any registered employee to whom they pay contributions for his pension and health insurance and are located in the gray economy zone. I think it's inadmissible because it's a fundamental question - who's the value maker? Of course, man is a value maker and that he should enter, as an active member of the farm and employee, to be a significant factor in the cooperative or agricultural enterprise, or a criterion in the distribution, or lease. Secondly, taking into account one of these criteria, we are actually losing one of the most important resources of the state, which is the state agricultural land for increased employment in Serbia, which is a current and very painful issue that we need to solve together. When it comes to the law on agricultural and rural development, only two things I would point out, which is that the law is proposed, and that the rural development strategy is only in the public debate phase. We believe that it was better to come to a strategy in agriculture, i.e. a strategy for agriculture and rural development, which is the basis for all other documents to be adopted, for the adoption of laws, and then there is a national rural development programme, etc. One important question is in Article 2 of this Act, where, according to European standards, we always have at the beginning of the law the terminology of the concepts used. I think it was necessary in this article to mention rural development as a concept, a rural area and all the concepts involved. Because the question can be asked, when we mention that term – what is rural development, what is this rural area? Of course, in a literal translation from Latin it means rural or rural, it refers to what agricultural production is in the country, in rural areas, in rural areas, but should simply be defined. (President: National MP, time available to your MP's group has been used. I'm done with it. I will say only in the end that our parliamentary group has submitted several amendments to several laws, the law on livestock farming, food safety, additions to the law on agricultural land, the bill on plant protection. We have positive signals from the Ministry that one or more of these amendments will certainly be taken into account and we thank you for what your opinion is, that we have constructively come to this very complex subject. Once again, let me point out that our SPS-JS parliamentary group will vote in favour of these laws, and that in future time we will work together to further amend these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19301	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić. Time at the disposal of the parliamentary group Forwards Serbia is 23 minutes and 30 seconds. After him, the Messenger of the people, Sava Tjocic. Unless he's in the O.R., after him is the Messenger of the people, Milorad Kristin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19302	Dear Presidency, Mr. Ministers and Associates at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will continue my presentation in front of Parliament's Progressive Serbia group, about where I left off after my previous presentation. I will talk mainly about the most significant elements of the individual laws we are discussing today, unfortunately, it is simply impossible in the time that we representatives, above all, of the opposition parties, are at our disposal to say something more serious and detailed about each law. I'd like to say something about the food safety law first. We estimate that this is one of the most important laws in this entire set of laws that we are discussing today. First of all, it should regulate the area of security in the process of producing, transporting and selling food, and food for animals, and it should also create significant preconditions, above all, in terms of raising the competitiveness of our food industry, means, meat industry, milk and all other industries concerned with food production for human consumption and animal food production. This law has long been prepared, I know it reliably, because a good number of my fellow veterinarians, above all, university professors, have participated in the drafting of this law and it is quite in line with European legislation in this area. I would like to present now those most important elements that are regulated by this law and especially by what will be, let me say, and new when this law is implemented in our legal system. It is important that the division of jurisdiction is carried out, and that, above all, by veterinary inspection and sanitary. It is clear what the competences of phytosanitary inspection are, as well as agricultural inspections, because all over the past years we have had some serious problems, above all, those dealing with the production, import, exporting food and food for animals, that they overlapped in terms of control, both in the process of production and in the process of transport, and especially in imports, and in particular in the exporting of certain products, where those involved in the production had double costs, in terms of testing and quality, and in particular the hygiene or health regularity of their products. Article 12 clearly defines the division of competences during the primary production phase, where the primary role in the production of food of animal origin is the veterinary inspection, in the production of food of plant origin phytosanitary inspection. Then, at the stage of production and processing and traffic, where the primary responsibilities of veterinary inspection are also defined, then agricultural inspections, which have jurisdiction in the control of food of plant origin and non-alcoholic beverages, etc. mixed food, where it again has the jurisdiction of veterinary and agricultural inspection. Then at the stage of imports and transport, at the border, where veterinary and phytosanitary inspections play a key role, in the phase of exports, where it is again clearly defined what controls veterinary inspection, phytosanitary and agricultural. Then, in the control of new food, child products and child food, where the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection is primarily determined. Then control of genetically modified food, where it is again clearly defined what is the jurisdiction of phytosanitary inspection. So it controls genetically modified plant food and genetically modified animal food - veterinary inspection. I think this is one of the essential provisions of this law, where it clearly defines the jurisdiction of these inspections. This law lays down and defines entities in the field of food and feed safety, which are entered in the central register of objects, where it is clearly defined that the production and transport of food and feed can be handled by legal persons and entrepreneurs registered in the register of business entities and registered in the central register of objects. This law regulates the formation of national reference laboratories, which is also news. We've had more so-called so-called. Reference laboratories for certain areas, in terms of food testing used in human use and food for animals, where the powers of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health have been determined by reference laboratories. This law establishes national reference laboratories for food safety, then, the national reference laboratory for animal health, the national reference laboratory for residences and the national reference seed laboratory for the control of plant seed. This is certainly good that our country has these reference laboratories that will have, among other things, co-operation and with reference laboratories from other countries. However, I think that in this current economic situation where our country is, and given the fact that the establishment of such laboratories will require a lot of money to equip such laboratories, and it will also be necessary to have a scientific and professional frame, both educated and laboratory analysts for certain types of laboratory controls. Unfortunately, my opinion is that we, as potential users of these laboratory services, will have to, and you as proponents of this, and in the ultimate founders, Article 18, define that the Government is setting up reference laboratories, that we will have to wait for conditions to be created, or, ultimately, the minister will respond to the certainty of the formation of all these laboratories, but according to my knowledge, I think there will be problems for these laboratories to be formed in due course. It is certainly good that it is clearly defined here which conditions these laboratories must meet, that they must have quality systems introduced, meaning that they are accredited by European and world quality standards, EAN standards, ISO standards, ISO 1700 25, above all, that is the standard for laboratories, and also EAN 45000-2 and 45000-3, and certainly there must be conditions. It shouldn't happen if such laboratories don't have these credentials. Furthermore, this law establishes a expert advice on the assessment of food safety risks, as a professional body that should inform or warn the Ministry of Agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health about potential risks. It certainly is good, with hope and conviction that such advice will be appointed, first of all, by professional people, not by people of party functions and party membership. Otherwise, everything would be unthinkable. General conditions of food safety and animal safety as well as measures of food restrictions and bans are further defined. Obligations for the import and export of food and feed shall be defined. I have already said that there have been overlaps and that they will clearly define whose responsibilities and border control, which are the responsibilities of veterinary inspection and phytosanitary. Furthermore, the introduction of a rapid notification and alert system, emergency and crisis management measures, in the form of reporting networks and direct or indirect health risks, which are caused by food or food for animals. It is mandatory for operators involved in production, at the stage of production, sales and transport, to establish a system of risk analysis and critical control points, the introduction of this so-called ‘climate’. The HCCP system and the introduction of good manufacturing and hygiene practices. In the area of food hygiene, it is an obligation that all operators in the business are obliged to regularly control and establish rules regarding food hygiene. These are just some of the most important elements of this law and I think that this law will be implemented in the process, first of all, production, but also food transport, because it will significantly improve the quality of food that we use in our diet, but also the quality of food for animals. The second law I want to talk about is the law on the means of protection. I want to say here that certain manufacturers, first of all, Fitopharmacies, Galenika and Hemofarm, had certain objections, and above all in terms of putting in an unequal position towards world companies dealing with the production of plant protection products, and that is because of the absence of a national reference laboratory for residences that has a certain function in terms of the control of residences of these products. That'll work out the amendment, I hope. Furthermore, the comments were made by the manufacturer at length and the validity of the decision to issue the pesticide marketing authorisation and those provisional licences they received, because they believe that the period given a year is short and that that period should be extended until the deadline set in the solution or to five more years, so that they can function normally on our market. I sincerely hope that you will have understanding and will not bring our producers into an uncompetitive relationship. I want to say something about the law on public warehouses for agricultural products, it is a new law that is introduced into our legal system and that will significantly help farmers. It first defines the authorisation for the operation of a public warehouse and the storage of agricultural products in public warehouses as being subject to the registration of legal persons registered in the Register of business entities and registered in the register of public warehouses. It is still prescribed what those legal entities must meet to have permission to work as a public warehouse. Then this law forms a register of public warehouses, where it defines what needs to be fulfilled to be entered in the register. It is further defined by the exercise of activity in the public warehouse, which is the storage of agricultural products and the issue of trade records, which is essentially one of the most significant parts of this law, and the definition of the trade record, i.e. receipts or publishers, what all and what elements should have these trade records. What I still want to apostrophe, taking care of both the weather and that more of my colleagues need to speak from the parliamentary group, which is the establishment of a compensation fund, which is also a newspaper, and the compensation fund has a role to play in paying the damages on the basis of the trade records that have been created in connection with the storage of agricultural products. The funds for the establishment and operation of the compensation fund shall be provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the funds of the budget, the payments made by a public warehouse in favour of the compensation fund, the revenue of the compensation fund, then from donations and other sources in accordance with the law. The work of the compensation fund is the establishment and existence of damages caused in connection with the storage of agricultural products and products according to the trade record. The next law I want to say a few words about is a significant law that needs to improve livestock production, which is the law on livestock farming. We've got a cattle law that lasts 15 years and regulates the area of livestock production, but it's pretty much out of line. This law needs to regulate more areas. First, subjects in livestock farming and their organisational forms, breeding organisations, the establishment of scientific and professional advice on livestock farming are defined. The law lays down the breeding objectives and the implementation of the breeding programme, the control of productivity and the preservation of the characteristics of domestic animals. Clearly defined are the breeding and quality domestic animals, the area of reproduction of domestic animals, the reproductive centres are regulated. Then, a way to grow domestic animals, bees and aquaculture. Here I would like to specifically point to a member of 53 who enters the jurisdiction of the veterinary profession, and there are certain amendments. I hope the promoter accepts. However, the Veterinary Act is a lex specialis in relation to animal health, and here some of the jobs in the domain of the veterinary profession are listed in this article. I think it needs to be changed. When growing bees, bee - eaters pointed to the identification of the bee’s cadastre pasture, and that it could be a problem if it stays this way in the law. In Article 65 relating to aquaculture, where the proposing defines the introduction of fish and other aquatic organisms of foreign origin, where aquaculture and production in controlled conditions requires an opinion and approval to be given by the Minister of Ecology and Environment. Here we should definitely separate what fish production is in controlled conditions, fish production and in open waters, where the Ministry of Ecology has jurisdiction. Here, fish cultivation should be as well as cultivation of all other species, and that the authorisation for that cultivation, whether it's new conditions or existing, should be given exclusively by the Ministry of Agriculture. This will allow those who prefer to deal with this production, and want to import some new species of fish, not to ask for more permits. And finally, I just want to say a few words, as far as the law on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act is concerned, where most of these provisions are well defined. However, first of all, the determination of the decadent right of short lease, then the right to participate in the first and second rounds of public competition. But from, above all, large systems and former combinations of agricultural ones, which are users of larger areas of state agricultural land leased, there is a reasonable doubt that if certain adjustments are not carried out, first of all, in terms of defining the cadastrian municipality, if I have used a good term, and jurisdiction legally, that a potential participant at the auction, means an economic operator, must own land in the property of each catastrian municipality in order to be able to participate in the lease. This can lead to the unenviable position of agricultural producers, such as "PIK" Vienna or tomorrow "PK Belgrade". Although he was not advertised during the debate over these laws, I think he is also using large areas of state land and it might be good to hear about the ownership structure in the PIC Belgrade, how much he uses state land and whether they are paying and who they are paying the rent to. Because it is certain – PIC Becay is privatized, but a large number of people on the territory of the Becej municipality, it is now around 1,500-1,600 people, living and working in that combination. If the country used by this combination were to be given to the use of natural persons as agricultural producers, then all these people would remain, and their families, without a job, and cattle production would be destroyed, because these combinations are still, in particular, the PK Belgrade and PIK Vienna, one of the largest and most qualitative livestock producers, and certainly have primary processing, have processing capacities, and are significant food exporters on the European and world market. I appeal to the legislator of this law to have this in mind and to make sure that the amendments that have been given by several parliamentary groups and to be respected and to meet the legitimate fear of these entities. Looking at this chronometer, I think time is running out. I must regret to conclude that these laws really deserved a broader debate and better information from our public about the essence and importance of these laws, because here, however, I have only touched a few laws, and I have skipped many, so I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19303	Time at the disposal of the Progressive Group of Serbia has been used. The People's Messenger Sava Tjocic has the word. The time available for the G17 parliamentary group plus is 28 minutes and 48 seconds. After that, MP Milorad Krstin, the time available for the SRS parliamentary group is 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19304	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs. Comic, the honourable ministers, gentlemen of fellows, counselors, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to immediately commend the Ministry of Agriculture for preparing such a set of laws from its respective area, which shows a high awareness and tells us that the Government and this assembly have a clearly defined vision of development and preservation of overall economic activity in the Republic of Serbia. Putting this set of agricultural laws on the agenda of this high house, at the moment when the global economic crisis feels and its negative effects are also felt in our country, we once again show that the ruling majority in this House and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are leading and implementing a good, socially responsible policy of Serbian society in general. Now I would refer to the situation in our agriculture over the past 20 years, so I could find the causal link between the current agrarian situation, since we all know that agriculture is not from yesterday, not from this government, from some previous one, so I would say that ten years ago our agriculture was one of the most important industries of the already former and almost forgotten SFRY. In the second half of the 1980s, agriculture and its resources represented one of the perhaps leading export chances of the then state. The farmers were then the middle class of our society. In any case, it was a firm guarantee of the stability of the overall economy, because of the fact that at the time large market surpluses were produced, which met domestic needs, went into export and I can say that it was also the time when the best contributions were made, when we were recordrs in the environment. Simply, there was a collapse of the great state, wars, sanctions, bombings, difficult times for the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. I also have to mention that hyperinflation, which destroyed our agricultural resources, but the Serbian peasant of the 1990s shows his economic patriotism despite all the troubles that came upon him in the spirit of a good host produce, under very difficult circumstances, feeds and feeds the nation, as he has always done through history. Our agriculture and its processing facilities were designed and built for the needs of that great country. With the very disintegration of the country, detachment and division of the republic, we are losing huge resources in the sphere of storage of agricultural products, processing industries, etc. The collapse of large cooperative systems to a lesser extent, which started in about 92, seems to me, we had large municipal agricultural enterprises, which in these difficult times thought that by dividing into catastrian municipalities, i.e. according to local communities, the separation of the large assets that will be better managed in the transition period is becoming even more vulnerable. That step was already doomed in 1992. Expensive inputs at that time, artificial fertilizer, oil, loss of parity in agriculture, all of this is seen in today's agrarian state. At that time, we have one absurdity that the state prescribes the price of buying agricultural products, that privileged individuals enter sugarcanes, mills, oil mills. Here, I'll give an example-- I remember, the minister backs me up, say, the price of sugar is six kilos, and on the black market is 36-40. It was just that time. Thank God, it's over. Let's move on. The elaborate machinery in both the social and private sectors, the age of tractors, the combination, are all the problems that have been settled for many years and that have led us to where we have come from. On the other hand, agricultural businesses are convulsing in debt, selling out property and firing workers as technological surpluses, which is incomprehensible, unacceptable and non-domestic behaviour, all thanks to the poor management of these agricultural enterprises and the management of the same. I remember, at the beginning of 21. The century, so in 2000, we're facing courts with this management that's suing, who's running the same company and suing legal persons for outstanding unpaid salaries. Then what's going on? Then there are some secises that buy that property, the highest quality country in Vojvodina, according to my Srem, for 1,000 euros per hectare, below those prices, etc. Lately, on the agricultural product market in Serbia, we are experiencing great turbulence in the prices of agricultural products. Come on, it's all in the market, but I really have to say if the Ministry has the mechanisms to control it, can we make a management that, say, when imports of milk powder, that Serbian milk will process, and also perform on some third markets? There's a problem. Mr. Minister, let me tell you, you've taken over a hot potato in this government. It's not easy for you, but be sure of one thing, that you may be the most senior minister in this government, because the Serbian peasant will never strike and will never come before the government because he has work to do at home, because he has to process the fields, be sure he won't. The Serbian peasant, I already said, is big enough and he knows he has to produce, and we need to help him with the plasma, because he doesn't have time in the agricultural work season to take care of both the plasma and everything else. I see an old-fashioned structure in agriculture that you know very well. Here, I come from a meeting village in the vicinity of Belgrade that has 250 houses. Now I'm going to show you a picture of this village of Prhovo, the municipality of Caves. Of the 250 houses, 50 are empty. For the next 10 years, by my estimate, another 100 will remain, unless they have a male heir or the descendants have already gone into the cities. The lack of social life in the village, the outflow of young people, the failure to return young people from their studies to their hometowns, will bring, as we already know there are many empty villages in central Serbia, that this is becoming a danger in Srem, Banat and Backo. What's the matter with a Serbian farmer? The inorganization of peasants. After those cooperatives, whatever they were, and they had buyouts, re-romitarians, there was one vacuum left, there was one empty space left. It's a small number of these cooperatives and associations that survived. I have to say, we haven't restored the tradition of those old farming cooperatives between the two world wars, where farmers have been pooling their holdings, their work and their property and their household owners, but these social ones, I have to call them that, I know you'll understand me, the cooperatives that now have some cooperative property, and mostly their work is still based on state and on giving you the trouble of paying them that rent, they still mean a lot to farmers and peasants. And here's what as a well-intentioned suggestion, maybe we should take care of it here, but help the peasant, you said earlier, and in preparation for this speech I wrote down, we need to put the Serbian peasant in a position to sell his products when it suits him, not when he has to, and to give them in vain. I assume you have the solution that it will be some kind of credit policy to help with your own storage space. To repeat, the state must protect the agricultural product market from large turbulence prices. I'm not going to suggest anything, because the waist, I see, sits with you, one big team, and it pours trust, it has to be found. I'll just remind you, corn prices range from eight to 20 dinars, you'll admit a big difference, a pig from 30 to 170, cattle from one to two euros, so when the Ministry prescribes a subsidy to a bull's-eye, then somebody else picks them up after they cut their ransom price. We know everything, we're aware, but we'll hold on. Serbian management must also find a placement in third countries of Serbian surpluses. I remember having the same estate of 15-20 hectares inherited from my father, unfortunately, in 92, it came to me, since I lost my father, one to one was parity for artificial fertilizer, for seed wheat, and now it's one to three. Let's try to narrow it down to one to two, and it'll hold up agriculture. Let's see what the state can do in the chemical industry, what it can do for a metal complex. The tractors IMT and IMR, you did not sit in this assembly, but a month or two ago some called Minister of Economy and Regional Development Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, to ski the Kopalnik with President Belarus, Mr. Lukashenko, and here are the results. We're going to make a Serbian giant, I hear, 5,000 square meters, the Belarusians will come, otherwise their machinery is highly appreciated in Serbia and the very good results in the land processing have shown, so we're going to connect these three companies, which will also take place on foreign markets with the machinery, hire the co-operatives who are in the metal complex here, here in Indjia, in Stari Pazova, Pancheva, in Mladenov. So that's a good solution. Along with you, I have no doubt you won't finish the job. As for the laws that are on the agenda today, I will start with the roof law on agriculture and rural development, which is primarily one good measure to encourage even regional development throughout the Republic of Serbia. This law comes as a roof to all the regulations of the previous period, which the government and previous governments passed under the Budget Law. I have to say that when I met with the law on agriculture and rural development and amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land, there really is a gravity in the field. Among other things, for five years seven and in the municipal leadership of SO Caves, and I've been developing an annual programme of land use arrangements in state property, I've been working with your people in the ministry, and I can't find any objections. It's just, you've taken care of everything. You've probably been to Serbia, you've been to the stands. I hear from my colleague from the Parliament club that the atmosphere on the Assembly Committee on Agriculture is great, that you are doing great, will also be agreed by fellow Mr Petar Jojic and Mr Krstic. There's a shift, there's a shift in the severity of access to problem solving. As you yourself say in your explanation, the biggest turning point in the promotion was made in 2004 when direct payment of subsidies and incentives from agricultural holdings was established through the register of agricultural holdings. Intermediaries, processors, buyers, warehousers, and the same social agricultural cooperatives, which kept the regressed oil, fertilizers, simply did not find their way to the end-user. As a reason for the adoption of the agricultural law, you listed, and I also recognise, defining the objectives and priorities of agricultural policy, setting up a system for the use of the distribution of state incentives and, most importantly, the transparency and continuity of the state incentives system. This means that the peasant will know in advance what the state will be predominant and will be able to plan a seed structure. Some of the strangers of agriculture will say, "What if it is, for example, corn is the most dominant, they will all sow it." That's not true. There's something in agriculture called fertility, something that has to be respected, so it's a full hit. The register of agricultural holdings was voluntary as we know it. If I have good data, in 2004, when the registration of family agricultural holdings was introduced, there were 50,000 registered owners at the end of that year. Now at the beginning of 2009, there are 418 thousand. There were mistrusts at the time. You know, they said they wanted to write us down, so they could take our taxes, so when they saw that only those who were registered could withdraw the milk premiums, and subsidies, etc. That same year 2004, when Mrs Ivana Dulic, for the first time, was headed by the Ministry of Agriculture, I don't know how many years later, we have loans, state loans, towards agriculture. Maybe more could have been done in that period than three years, but all the laws have been passed. Theoretically, it is the ministry's work, that very good preconditions have been made, which I now see in advance that you and your team will know how to implement. This agricultural rural development law increases the competitiveness of agricultural products, will ensure food quality, will provide support to the standard of living of all people living in rural areas and, most importantly, sustainable development of the village, which is in fact the objectives of agricultural policy. The formation of the Agrarian Payments Administration combines all the actions to encourage production. By downloading records from the Treasury Administration, all incentive control mechanisms are established, which means in one place, as you imagined, we'll have a database that's all over the country, you'll agree, elaborated. Since I come from local self-government, believe me, the county's agriculture monitoring services almost don't exist. Ninety per cent of municipalities in Serbia, until the adoption of the Law on Agricultural Land in state property and expected income, these 40% of what is to come were not projected in their local budgets – not one single dinar for agriculture. It simply came down to an executor in the agriculture department, who collected statistical data and believe me completely incorrectly, since the cooperatives were gone. That's what it was -- driving a car through an atar and so many acres of wheat, so many corn, so many industrial plants. Now, I'd like to set a positive example for me of the neighbouring municipality of Surcin, who went so far, I don't know if you know, if she bought 200 mangulls, the indigenous Serbian pigs, so she divided the farmers and restored the process. Or the town of Kragujevac, which I heard from colleagues from Kragujevac, who have an agrarian budget of 150 million dinars. Imagine what they're doing? They give, borrow the sowing, lend the forest peasant, and then the same farmer repays the loan to his agricultural products. Do you know where these agricultural products are used? In Kraguje's hospitals, schools, kindergartens, and they closed a circle, and it turned out to be a good practice. You also provide by this law that local self-governments can implement agricultural policies in their fields, as well as to set up legal persons to implement agricultural policies. It's something I've been up to for ten years, but believe me, it's not very understanding. Citing these product examples, I know I'm going to fight for something like that in the municipality, but that might be overcoming that vacuum, that level between the ministry and the agricultural holdings, businesses that deal with agriculture, etc. So that would be the decentralisation. Family agricultural land is the basic form of the organisation of agricultural production and it is primarily an economic category, but this same family agricultural land provides one security and that is what the Serbian peasant values the most. According to my data, 80% of Serbia's land is owned by family farms. Yes, they're crushed, under three acres, from several parcels, but trust me, they're giving us safety. I stated, in difficult times they always proved to be a pillar of family, society, etc. We share family holdings in commercial and non-commercial. I've been thinking for a long time, Minister, why did you say there's no subsidy of 12,000 just to those who are registered on the pension system, so I thought, we're all politicians here, that it's not going to go well in public, but I'm thinking that you're right. This will be a stimulating measure for people who want to deal with agriculture. It's not right for me and my farm mate to be in the same basket. It's all nice. This is an extra bit of agricultural activity for me and my colleagues sitting here, but it's basic to them. By unifying pension funds, agricultural, craftsmanship and this state, we're doing it. With this measure of yours, we realize social security. Let's go 30 years from now to see a farmer who is now 30 years old, he's going to be a pensioner. He'll be retired and he'll have third-century security. Do you know what that'll lead to? We the Dukes know about us, while he breathes, he does not write. It will allow your parents to leave what they have in time, to open their eyes, to see, not when their dad dies, I'm kidding. This law should improve overall agriculture in Serbia because it allows for the definition of incentive measures and their users in rural areas, where comparative advantages and weaknesses should be seen very well. Unfortunately, we've had fairy tales in the past, stories, that a peasant in Vojvodina lives better than the one on Zlatibor, that people who produce raspberries in the pleasure area are more privileged than farmers from Sremska Mitrovica, Shida, which is not true. They're all in the same skin. Everyone depends on that factory under the clear sky, and they all write the same thing. This government and you, I think, need more media to present what you're doing. You need to go out more in the media, and if you need to go out every day. Someone said – the public service is at your disposal, and that it's about the effects exactly. I'm sure since I'm a man of practice, I'll only take these two laws or a complete set - that you've done the job. I'll talk about the practical things you'll find on the ground still in the field about carrying out the issue, renting out agricultural land. Here, let me start right now. I was able to provide for me in the municipality of Pećinci, which in 2002 was rural and undeveloped in the Vojvodina area, we experienced an industrial transformation thanks to the highway, the geostrategic position, that we brought 40-50 companies, which foreign, domestic, that we have the largest budget in Serbia now, but we have also installed one thing in the application program, we have a problem with the leveling of the cadastres and the land library. We've singled out 30,000 from these transfer funds, so to speak, which should be returned to us, from renting 6,000 hectares of state land on our territory, but we're also from the budget of the Building Land Fund, because it's a wound cancer, we've singled out that money to imitate the cadastre, since the diameters are so old, even from the Maria Teresa era, of 15 catastrian municipalities we have five problems, to prepare that land so that the peasant who owns the property can go to the bank and show that he owns one through one, so that if he used incentives to guarantee the ministry, etc. That's what we did in 2001, because we have continuity as a government down there, with building land. We were the first to come up with a plan of documentation, and it turned out to be good. This is what we feel will be good in agriculture, and that is why I see the problems of the Ministry of Agriculture and Departments of Agriculture of Local Self-Government that will implement this amended law on renting agricultural land, because there has been a time-constraint in the law of separation of social and state land. To me, I have to admit, it bothers that term, since it is, I'd rather call it a cooperative property and that property that agricultural businesses had to prove that they had acquired through legal work, which kept the term social, so it was a long-term chase, especially in farmers, in workers, they didn't know what it was about. In fact, it's a property they can trade with. Some executives and the management of these farming cooperatives showed what he liked, what was convenient for sale, so now the state property remains, it looks like Leopard's skin on the map. We have channel nets that have been dug up. Turns out you're renting some plots, and believe me, we've been thoroughly preparing... (President: National MP, time at the disposal of your parliamentary group has been used. )......................................................................................................... If you'll excuse me, in the end, I would like to thank my fellow Members. Mr. Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19305	The People's Messenger, Milorad Krstin, has the word, and after him, the Messenger of the people Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19306	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in addition to such a magnificent speech by my colleague, Mr. Tjocic, how all this works, especially with Minister Dinkic, just to remind him that there was this wonderful campaign you were doing together with DS May. The best and cheapest, they wouldn't even come up with the US, probably, the promises you made to the citizens of 1,000 euros out of action, and they didn't get 0.000% today. Then many jobs in the flag, Kragujevac ski resorts, these tractors, but I'm afraid it's not like the president of Serbia with corridor 10, so they took pictures with the opening of works on corridor or highway corridor 10 and the rest of the machines there are still on fire. We are here by some other set of points, which the minister, unfortunately, along with the head of the ZES parliamentary group, will not express another name, put all 15 laws into debate and bring them together. As I said, I can believe in your haste towards the EU. I don't think these 15 laws will get you into the EU or us. It'll take hundreds of laws to pass. If I were powerful, I would say it right now -- let's bring all the laws that we need to enter the EU tomorrow, and not discuss at all, just to vote, if it takes a month, we will vote, but we will not enter the EU safely, because it is not their desire for Serbia to be an EU member, and as such, and you don't need it. Let's go back to what the minister said after my address, in fact, to say what someone from the ministry, led by the minister, with the help of the government, to do, and that is that, even before the harvest of wheat, the harvest of sunflower and corn, the minister sits down with someone, I see that the minister's story and Mr Micovic, thank you for being interested in these points of the agenda. Therefore, Mr. Minister, it wouldn't be bad for you to sit down with the Oil Union, as they call themselves, or the great powers who bought our oil, to sit down and agree on what the future price would be, without the peasant being included as a victim of his work, since we know what the price was last year's sunflower, to see that it wasn't below that price for at least this year. Then you can see before the harvest if you can make a deal with the millers and you can suggest it, and if they will adopt it, it would be good for you to suggest the price of the wheat below which it should not be. Since Mr. Ciocic says that he can't stand behind prices, I won't comment, but I can say why there is a ministry of agriculture or economy, if you can't influence at least as much as the prices of agricultural products, that this peasant can at least make it possible for himself to have a normal, at least decent life for himself and his family, because there's no peasant who works alone, with him is always a wife, with him are always children, and those children should be allowed at least as much as possible to finish high school and to continue at least studies. I simply wanted to, Minister, now take this opportunity and tell you why I am no longer a member of the Committee on Agriculture, which is thanks to a citizen who is the chairman of the Committee, Mašić. In addition to that stenogram that I gave to the secretary of this assembly, where it says that I've only been warned twice, not taken away, not thrown out, so the stenogram I gave Mr. Odalovic, I was removed, thrown off the Committee on Agriculture, because it looks like I'm disturbing someone, and I just wanted to point out that I can't have the citizens as president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19307	People's MP, the rules of the Messenger of the National Assembly are that we treat one another with respect. There are 250 MPs in the National Assembly, and I warn you that you treat all those who have the same rights and responsibilities as you do with the business obligation to respect and address them properly, if you do not already consider it to be understood. Go on. I ask the MPs not to earn, for the benching also constitutes a violation of the basic provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and of polite treatment. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeta, throws it - does she and when hope of the Kolundji does it? Yes, and when Hope Kolundji does get a warning, and when he repeats the offense for which he received the warning he will get a warning, so it will be in your case, so I ask you not to repeat the violation of the basic orders would the Rules of Procedure be polite and polite. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19308	Madam Chairman, based on what the minister said, he wants co-operation with those who are members of the Committee and from the opposition, I just said why I didn't, I explained to the minister, and you review the stenogram and see if I was wrong again about the Rules of Procedure of this assembly. I've been dislocated by 32,000 dinars, and that doesn't matter, since the minister has made an exact finding of how much pay we MPs have. But okay, I see the devil took a joke. Mr. Minister, you told me I should deliver those persons who didn't pay for the rent of state agricultural land, and you gave me a document on the names and last names of those people who didn't pay. Here, you see the blanks, Minister. I don't need to bring it to you. You're the only one who has to act. You have power, you're a minister, you have a police officer who has a job to do, you have agricultural inspectors, you have services by municipalities that receive fine salaries, there are 85,000 dinars. Now let me answer this. What you see here today is the City Hall in Zrenjanin. As a MP, I'm getting documentation and I've got it around agricultural land. This is fresh, the latest, and I'll bring you all of it, so you'll see what they're doing. It says here – the annual programme of protection, arrangements and use of state agricultural land for 2006 and 2007, which you have delivered to me here, was totaled with 8.725 hectares, 41 ar and 15 square meters, etc. In 2009, a total of eight contracts were terminated, and is now under the lease of 6,744 hectares, 79 acres and 88m square state agricultural land. And when I subtract, since eight contracts have been broken here, and now when we subtract from 8,725 of these 6,744, the difference is 1,981 hectares. So, Minister, they've been using for a year, those eight thousand acres, and they haven't paid anyone anything. I'm very interested in whether you're going to take action and one of them is answering why it hasn't been paid. That's one thing. What you asked me to do, in fact I said that I disagree, this is the other side of the fax sent, in the material I have a house, a program to determine the work on the protection and arrangement of agricultural land, a source of rent income, according to the 2006/2007 programme, which refers to the first year, the amount in the dinars, which means that it's been charged, which means the farmer would say "60." 831,128, 30 dinars. This is the latest document, and you've given me that according to your documentation, it's an even worse situation, that 74 million are selected. Further, the second paragraph stands – expected revenues in 2009, meaning, expected, not yet, revenues in 2009 are 40,282,567, 64 per programme 2006/2007. A year. So we're talking about the document that you sent me, and I'm talking about the latest document, because in your presentation, you said there might be a half-year difference, a year. I am now reading to you the latest document that I received as an MP, and this is about the City Assembly that was held today, and I don't know if it's still being held, but it was held in the city of Zrenjanin. So, Minister, you have the paperwork, you have the people, you have the regulations, and you can examine how it's possible that those eight people worked 2,000 acres and they broke the contracts because they weren't paid, and it's only one thing, because they didn't have a guarantee bank, they didn't take those in the bond commission then and they couldn't get forced payment. Judicially, whether the municipality can burden them or not, that's another thing. Minister, I have another remark I'd like to tell you. Regardless, I repeat what my DSS colleague said to me that I did it again, you, or your predecessor, who was a minister, were supposed to see that there was no bail and guarantee of a bank or note, had to intervene later in the municipalities and ask for an annex of the contract to be made in that contract. This is how you lost millions. Millions of dinars, billions. A colleague, Jojic, said only that there is a difference in billions of dinars in Pančevo municipality. That was said at the pay phone, as I said to the minister, was Minister Dragutinovic, Minister Dacic. Unfortunately, you weren't there when we brought it up. So that protection of changes and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land or, specifically, on the lease of state agricultural land will be valid only when we make sure that you really do it the way you wrote it, your associates who wrote it. I would suggest this, Ministers, based on more talks with representatives or those who make up the Serbia-Vojvodina cooperative, because there are two associations, the Serbian association and the Vojvodina association, as far as I know in the Vojvodina Association, the director is Jovanovic Radislav, I suppose you know him, too, he asked for an x-way from me, I contacted this association of Serbia several times, he asked for amendments to the Law on Co-operation. But come on, look once, don't let those tycoons who leased these cooperatives, who, by play or accident, because of the hyperinflation and all the other factors that came to these situations because of those sanctions, and after the arrival of the DSS, G17 in power, the Privatisation Agency, people bought literally for the bad. She can still return to those who were members of that cooperative. You only need one day and a pen move to do it. I'm convinced of that and I'm sure of it. Many people would surely be pleased to return to those, for you well know that from 1989 to 1992, hundreds of agricultural goods in villages were associated with agricultural cooperatives. They transferred automatically to the association, so they even called themselves - cooperative agricultural enterprises, they transferred it to what the cooperative said was owned by the joint agricultural company of the CAP. They also joined the agricultural company and cooperatives, and they called themselves a cooperative agricultural company. You can do it, and then you'd do one really real thing. Now those who bought agricultural goods, you have no place to buy and no one to make deals with other than the owners of tycoons or their tycoons in villages, fertilizers, chemistry, seeds, mostly natural exchanges in proportions of abnormal ones. There is one task ahead of you. I'd love to help these peasants, but if you don't take care of the prices or try to talk to the oilies, the olive groves or the oil union, or the millers, you can detest the ministers as much as you want, but if they decide that the wheat will be 11 dinars, the farmer is done. He's below zero. He's in a deficit, not in a surplus. What does that family have to live on? You have to do this. That's your job. You were chosen by peasants. We chose you on a proposal, normally, but you were chosen by peasants. You didn't get votes from DS, you got votes from those peasants. I really ask you once again, when we come to the amendments proposed by the SRS, but we know that so far it is difficult to accept our amendments, and we only want to improve these laws and make them legally possible, we believe that because of what you've done to unite 15 points of the agenda into one point, the SRS will not support. I still think I made one contribution today as much as I could. The only thing I haven't told you, Minister, is my exposure to what my salary is. I'm sorry, you've heard from Madam Chairman, but I'm not sure I can tell you that that promise made by Dinkic about these tractors will start as well as for those 1,000 euros, as well as for the flag, Kragujevac factory with the "Punta", ski resorts. Therefore, don't trust Minister Dinkic. It is that you are in one government, but you will do nothing with it, as promised so far. Minister, just to quote your statement, it's news on the Dnevnik, you say -- 90% of the 2009 agricultural budget, which is 20.5 billion dinars, will be intended to subsidize registered farmers. The budget is definitely small, but it's conceived so that 90% are subsidies to farmers and cooperatives, and it's strictly registered agricultural holdings that do nothing but agricultural. And then, according to you, everyone else, i.e. the economics and the hobby farmers, lawyers, doctors, who got their savings and bought land in the country, so now they're renting it, they can't make any subsidies from the Ministry of Agriculture. I've only read this, Minister, so that your lawyers can hear it, the doctors. As far as I know, I'm surprised you didn't put the judges here. Aid from the agricultural budget this year is 2.7% of Serbia's total budget. It is below any normal thinking that only 2.7% of Serbia's total budget is allocated from the budget, and about 25% is lower than in 2008. It's not intended for large agricultural systems, which would be normal. What big systems? Don't think of going through it again like it was, here it is, the minister, thanks for the wonderful speech of these G17s. I thought you ministers would give me your hand when this session is over. (Minister Sasa Dragin approaches the People's MP Milorad Krstin and gives him his hand. ) (President: I now ask Minister Sasa Dragin and People's MP Milorad Krstin not to disturb the order of the National Assembly. I'm sorry, I'm putting it here, but I can't take this minister's gesture without giving my hand. That would be really rude of me and I'd get maybe a reminder and a disfellowshipping from the congregation. So, I thought I should give a man a hand as a minister, who he loves or doesn't love, but he has to respect him. Madam Chairman, don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. With this gesture of yours, I believe I've finished my presentation today, and the peasants will come out of this agrarian twilight. I hope not, but in the first autumn session, Minister, be assured that we will go ahead of the SRS and repeat this, and then we will repeat what you said, because I have already taken your statement, in fact your address to the citizens of Serbia, i.e. The peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19309	The word was asked for by the People's MP Sava Tjocic, right on the line. The word was sought by Minister Sasa Dragin and MP Verica Radet, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so it will be the order in which the declared person gets his word. So, first, the People's Parliament of the Verica Radet on the basis of Article 100, then the People's MP Sava Čocic, right to replication and then Minister Sasa Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19310	Reporting on the basis of Articles 27 and 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You, Mrs. Komic, have violated these two members of the Rules of Procedure during Mr. Krstin's exposure. You interrupted him, and you had no right to do that, of course, I don't think you have the right to interrupt an MP while he's speaking when you're in that position, but in this case you had no right. Mr. Krstin, like all Serbian radicals, actually like all MPs, has the right to be guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is the right to present its judgment, to express its political position, and he has used his right to do so. The fact that you do not like that we remind you regularly of the fact that the SRS have stolen mandates, that the SRS list of SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj, Vojislav Seselj, the first on the list, won 78 seats in the last elections, that thanks to Boris Tadic, their mentors from the west, Serbian tycoons, had a number of SRS mandates taken. Mrs. Comic, you, nor any of you, will ever force any Serbian radical to call those who stole the SRS, who stole the will of the citizens, a national MP. You can line us up against the wall, shoot us in the forehead, you'll never hear from us that they're MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19311	People's MPs, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. It is my duty to safeguard the dignity of this assembly and to interrupt and warn MPs who allow themselves to belittle a fellow MP. You do not have the right to violate the reputation of this congregation even after a warning, claiming that you know what my intentions are, in violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which involve the application of Article 27, and I give you a warning. It is your will to claim that the status of the mandate entrusted to some MPs is one or the same. Article 27 obliges me to remind you that no one in this assembly can insult anyone else who has all the rights and responsibilities that belong to him from the mandate of the MP. What the People's Parliament of the Prophet Radet, which you, I cannot address with "you", since you left the sitting room, what you show as an incomprehension, I call on you to talk about the violation of Rules of Procedure and Article 104, is that your position on how you choose to address someone during the work of the National Assembly implies the will to humiliate and destroy the reputation of this institution. I cannot allow that, even if I am not bound by Article 27, to safeguard the dignity of all of us, even those who do not understand the importance of the institution in which we are sitting and who we should respect, on behalf of those who sent us here to defend their interests. The People's Messenger, Sava Čocic, has the word, the right to reply to the presentation of the Messenger of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19312	I want to replicate Mr. Kristin because I see that, and when this is the important topic on the agenda, he's pushing politics and petty politics. Agriculture is not a matter to play with and you have enough years to know it, but as my president, Mladjan Dinkic, some unbelieving Toma in this assembly – it is yours to talk and ours to do, so we will see each other eventually in some other elections, etc. I would take the opportunity, Mr. Minister, to thank you for your discussions and very good explanations, and I think you've made a very good impression today on your work. Farmers will certainly recognize it and know that they appreciate it. Let me just add that G 17 plus in voting day will support the set of laws and vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19313	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19314	I've just received information that the difference in land is related to the municipality of Zrenjanin because the contracts are broken. The Ministry has launched an emergency payment procedure for that land, so you know about these parcels. Thank you for pointing to that problem. It's important that citizens know how to handle these things. As for the skepticism about whether this subsidisation program for the purchase of machinery will start to work, I have the latest data, just now arrived from the agricultural fair, 650 tractors' invoices have been issued since the program started working, in fact for a week. I don't think anything better than that can say, that the program doesn't work, but maybe it works better than this for cars.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19315	The word is given to the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz, followed by the People's Messenger Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19316	The Honorable Chairman, Honored Ministers, 19 years SPO has been waiting for a debate on laws that are on the agenda today, 19 years we have been visiting Serbia, 19 years the agricultural producers have been repeating the same story and 19 years it has been looking at the need for a system-based strategy and the direction of agricultural policy. I would share my discussion in three parts. It is the first assessment of the state of mind of the SPO on Serbian agriculture today. Secondly, I'm going to say something about the laws that are in the process. Third, realistic expectations of the SPO on the effects of the law and of the time for which we can expect these effects. I'd like to mention and praise both the minister and the whole team. This seems to me to be one of the most serious, if not the most serious team to appear in front of MPs in the National Assembly. We all know that they are very engaged in the field, that the debate on these laws has lasted a long time, that they are very focused on the problem and all I will say is more for the public, not for the sake of the people who are and how qualified, including State Secretary Zeljko Radosevic, a member of the SP, who, as we say, is not calmed down from field engagement, is never difficult for him, I think he works 20 hours a day, to go to Vojvodina, and the next day to southern Serbia. I absolutely believe in all of us that there is awareness that the eyes of farmers today are facing the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He said one of his colleagues - a factory under the clear sky, full of suspense, full of uncertainty, full of pain. That seems to me to be the most beautiful president of our party said in the '90s, the Serbian farmer was and remained a feeder and defender. We did not believe when we talked, thanks to the Serbian farmer for everything he did until 90th year for Serbia and for everything he suffered in the decades of the one-party system, from the seizure of property, the rip-off of mustaches, persecution on various grounds, that the Serbian farmer and these 19 years, unfortunately, will be the main support of the state and the defender and the feeder in very difficult conditions. It's all a farmer has endured, but it's near the end of power. The very fact that a large number of percentages, perhaps about 60% of nursing households, that young people only have to stay in the country, who have no alternative anymore, remain in the country, that a large number of those who cannot get married because of the fact that even the girls from the village, seeing the situation and the environment in which they live and work, do not see that perspective, would rather marry and seek their happiness in some urban environments than in the country. Centralisation of finance; it is good that, here, what we as a political party asked for ten years ago to carry out total decentralisation of finance at all levels, with the absolute respect of Belgrade as a capital and capital, definitely the impulse of a party, centralist, financial management remains largely present in the country of Serbia. Since I am a representative of the list for Europe's Serbia, I must say that these are not European principles, but it is good that in the Strategy for the Development of Agriculture, it seems to me before the deadline for joining the European Union, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture was first set to decentralise financial power in Serbia. Such an example should be followed by all other ministries, because we have the demographic discharge of eastern Serbia, southern Serbia, central Serbia, and here we see the Vojvodina. If we are on the list for Europe's Serbia, if we stand for European values, let's be European at all and be European to the end. Let's say in practice what we talked about in the campaign, European principles without alternative, that there are some better ones, believe that the Serbian Renewal Movement would advocate them. What is interesting to me, what we saw in the visit to the farmers of Slovenia as a political party, I don't know if the representatives of the Ministry have, I believe, considered the normative arrangement of the Agricultural Chamber, as a professional body that plays a significant role in the development of agriculture in Slovenia and which, in our knowledge, has very correct co-operation with the Slovenian government on the overall problem of agricultural production. Age of machinery; working machinery, agricultural machinery, average age over 20 years, tractors and so on, only these agricultural machines that have appeared in recent years do not have that age, how to restore them? I think in that part too, we should use the experiences of those who have done it the right way. Small productivity farms in Serbia, and on the other hand, we have, for example, low accumulative agricultural production, then, we have years of isolation that have stemmed from technical and technological development, which, of course, has produced a decline in competitiveness, a loss of the market, and we have the negative consequences of transition. And we have everything that hasn't been done by all the previous governments. First of all, I've been thinking about governments since 2000, so here we go. Everything they did, they did partly, they didn't do seriously, systematically, for a long time. It's more of a coincidence with the laws that are on the agenda today. It seems to me that our path to that desired goal that all MPs have shown will be in three stages, and we have to tell the truth to the agricultural producers today, I think there is awareness of it. So this is a preparatory phase. This is a normative arrangement. After that, we have the application of legislative solutions and all the problems that will follow during the implementation of legal solutions, and I believe that we will ultimately have integration and access to European Union funds and distribution in a fair way. I wanted to say one more thing, the Ministry of Agriculture was giving subsidies, incentive funds, that is, it's been a newspaper for farmers for the past few years, but as it used to be in Tito's time, people were taking loans for so-called. The green plan, instead of agricultural production facilities, was mostly home-wrestling. And yet it is one impulse that was inherited and, it seems to me, that in a large number of cases among people who received incentive funds and subsidies, people who did similar work in Tito's time appeared, so they were unintendedly spending their resources, because of the fact that the normative and institutional control of the funds was not good, that there was no adequate inspection supervision, but this law fully regulates it in a valid manner. On my information, I don't know if they're right, even over 70% of the funds were unintendedly used in that part. What the SPO sees as a chance, as the best solutions to all the laws, is that for the first time, the objectives of agricultural policy are defined systematically, to establish a new system of use and distribution of state incentives, that we expect, of course, to raise the capacity of employees in the ministry. It is necessary in the Ministry of Agriculture, veterinary, phytosanitary and all other services. The development of a decentralised system of support for the development of agriculture and villages and the development of laboratories that are necessary in order to achieve and achieve everything we want are very important elements in these laws. The database, which has never been united, has never been centralized and which is predicted to be arranged in an extraordinary way, is something that should really be commended. Support in the construction of market infrastructure, support in the construction of a rural payment system, faster progress towards monitoring agricultural production from the initial to the final stages, quality monitoring, etc., seeking to increase ownership, specialisation and education of agricultural producers, direct market and structural incentives, the establishment of agrarian payment administrations are all exceptional solutions. We expect all these measures to penetrate all areas of the agricultural sector. We know what the economic situation is in the country and the world. Believe that not only do we know, farmers know. They do not expect us to adopt laws now and to be everything for them in a short period of time, as is the case for farmers and the European Union. But the vast odds, the huge potentials, the huge talent and love for the country of agricultural producers, the enormous potentials of Vojvodina, Srema, my Forests, Dragacheva, Podrinja, Podunnova, Braničev County, eastern Serbia, give hope that by adopting these laws, we will definitely make a turn in agricultural production and we will have a reverse process for some year. We'll probably have a process of emptying cities and running to villages. If it wasn't a fairy tale, we have it in our environment. In the last 10 years, Ljubljana has lost about 30,000 inhabitants, some have gone to agricultural production and today the gentlemen are agricultural producers, exports to Italy, Austria and Croatia, etc., and many live in the country because of the fact that the municipal infrastructure is governed by European Union standards, travel to cities because the roads are good, when they finish their daily work, return to the village, because they want to live in a healthy environment. Healthy food, I believe Serbia's greatest chance for a huge European Union market of 500,000 inhabitants, the municipality of Knic, the municipality of Arangelovac, the municipality of Raca, the entire Shumadian district, believe they absolutely expect a lot of what we are talking about today, and therefore, the SPO, with a lot of hope and expectations, will vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19317	The word is given by MP Aleksandar Pejcic, after which the MP Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19318	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, this set of laws on agriculture has brought enormous attention and attention, not only to the public of Serbia, but also to your ministry, since there has never been a more complete one ministry in the Assembly. In that name, I thank you. You have honored us to defend this law. What the DSS has proposed when adopting the agenda are the following things: that this set of laws be divided into two points of the agenda, into the law on brandy, the law on wine and ethanol, to be a special point, and these other agricultural laws to be the second point. However, the majority of the assembly did not define that we are talking separately and I am glad that you supported it, Mr. Minister, because you are both technocrats and as a politician aware that the discussion would be much more quality to discuss these matters separately. For the sake of the public to remind the citizens of Serbia that the previous government, headed by Vojislav Kostunica, made one better environment and for the first time this business branch – agriculture, started exporting, we had a surplus in exports. We were hoping that this government of Mr. Mirko, too, would continue on that path and that they would try to do much for this economic branch. But that didn't happen. They made a few cardinal mistakes. Among other things, they reduced funds in the agriculture budget, and in the rebalancing sector, reduced funds for agriculture. What is devastating for agriculture is the unilateral application of the SAA by the government of the Republic of Serbia. We have also warned that these products imported from the EU will be extremely competitive as far as our agricultural products are concerned, they will be much cheaper than our agricultural products. However, even when we warned, the ruling majority remained deaf. I come from southern Serbia, from the town of Leskovac, where two-thirds of people live in rural areas. So, a city that's gravitating about 144 villages. We used to be an industrial center, called Little Manchester. We see a chance right in the development of agriculture, for the simple reason that we have good resources and comparative advantages compared to other regions. Namely, I'm going to mention these resources, primarily human resources. I said that we have about 144 villages and these people are already engaged in agriculture, they've already been restructured for a simple reason since the industry was destroyed in the woodland. Also, I have to mention that we have this educational factor. We've got a farm school, we've got a tech college, and I'll talk about it later, with a diet. Also, we're the biggest exporters of the cherry, if you want to know. We have over a million cherry trees in our area and over 500,000 pear trees and apples. What hurts our peasant, which is exactly what his cherry is more expensive than the cherries Poljak and Hungarian, for a simple reason, I mentioned earlier, because of the unilateral application of the SAA. It is very difficult to export that cherry to the EU. We're gonna have to look for another market. If I tell you that's where the cherry was bought by producers like Dr. Etker, then you can see the quality of the cherry, since you're the minister and you know that this dry matter may be the best quality in that cloudy cherry. We're also big producers and vegetable cultures, like peppers and tomatoes. We used to have a more developed stock, and in that sense we also branded our grilled meat, which is known throughout Serbia. These are all these comparative things, where we expect the government's systemic assistance, i.e. The legal aid of the Government, that we will develop agriculture in our space and in this economic branch and how we see a great opportunity. Also, what we expect the state to perform systematically is to stop that migration. This is exactly the kind of law that should stop migration. We from southern Serbia have an annual migration of about 2,200 inhabitants. It is one small Black Grass, the smallest municipality in Serbia. So, the whole of Black Treva is moving from southern Serbia, and since physics doesn't know about the empty space, I assume you know who is bordering the Jablanic and the Pcinian district, you assume who can move into that empty space and in that sense we expect state aid. What we've been critical about these laws, we've put up with the amendment. We are particularly interested in the storage, where we have tried the amendment to make sure that the necessary payment suggests that the first auction requires the agricultural product to be 100% market price, for the simple reason that when it is found on the market, and there is the possibility that the goods will be deficited on the market, so that buyers do not buy that goods. I think this amendment has been exceeded and established and should be accepted. What we talked about earlier, when you were in our Parliament club, is that these criminal provisions of the law, such as plant protection, food protection, plant diseases, we wanted to send a clear message to all those factors who participate in this process that they should do it in a more effective way. In fact, we read in the media that the inspection visited a large number of regions and seized a large amount of rotten fruit and vegetables, about 326 kg, as far as I got the information. She also seized over 350kg of goods whose deadline expired and over five tonnes of agricultural goods that did not have a declaration. In that sense, we wanted to send a message to the citizens of Serbia, and to all those who are engaged in this activity, that they should respect the rule of law, that they should respect the laws and that they should take care of the extreme distance, which is the buyer, who and how they can have great consequences when buying that poisoned food, that rotten food. In that sense, we reacted to these criminal provisions. However, you have explained that you too are for this, but you could not react for the simple reason that the law is limited in that regard. When it comes to the laws on wine, rakia and ethanol, I talked to the representatives of the Technological Faculty, with professors and students, maybe they came to you and wanted to install them in the professional nomenclature, because they think they have room under the sun in that law and that they are also an important factor in the production of wine and brandy. I expect you to accept these amendments. Some colleagues have also written these amendments and, if you have already accepted, I thank you, and how important it will be for our students and professors from the Faculty of Technology. I also expect these laws to be implemented as soon as possible in reality, but we fear that the lack of funds will not allow them to be implemented so quickly and dynamically. Also, we expect you to accept a large number of DSS amendments, as well as amendments from other opposition colleagues. We think that these amendments can be qualitatively altered by the text of all these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19319	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. He's not here. Milos Radulovic would now come to order.. The DSS Group has seven minutes to go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19320	We are already in continuity holding sessions in some extended deadlines and without the TV broadcast of the Public Service. Obviously, this session will also have a delayed transmission at some deaf time of the night after 12 hours. In particular, I think this is going to be my show sometime after an hour at midnight. It's sad because of all these agricultural producers who, the God of nature of work and the obligations they have up early, are not able to look and listen to what is being exhibited here and what is essentially very important for their lives. In Serbia, we have about 750 thousand households dealing with agricultural production and a large number of citizens are directly or indirectly focused on agricultural production. It is a shame, Mr. Minister, that you have accepted that this is the way the debate has been brought together with 15 points of such important legislation, where it is not possible for MPs to give concrete opinions on every law in the debate in principle. The DSS Parliamentary Group for Exposition under these laws had 25 minutes and 12 seconds, or if you calculate it, for every law minute and 40 seconds. We were forced not to talk about every law that's on the agenda today. At the same time, I closely followed what time it took Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Komic, to read only the points of the united agenda in principle. It took her 56 seconds to just read out the points that we have on the agenda today, which practically corresponds to half the time one of the DSS MPs has to present on one law. Agricultural producers from all over the country deserve a much more serious debate than this one. As you know, more MPs here today pointed out that agriculture is the only business branch that recorded a 600m-dollar surplus last year and that agriculture is essentially the most significant developmental branch of Serbia's economy. A few days ago alone, on 8 May, he was a meeting of Belgrade's most prominent bankers, where Agrikol Bank President Mr. Rene Karon presented information that Serbia has the opportunity to be the leading economic leader and play a key role in agricultural production in the region. Especially as it was then established, and I will only quote that part, that unless something is done by agriculture will not satisfy the needs of food for the world's population and that it is agriculture, it is a general finding, Serbia's greatest developmental chance. I came from the wine-growing Alexandrovic parish. It is known by vineyards and orchards, and I know best how hard it takes for those hardworking people to lift their orchards and vineyards. With these laws, you want to bring our legislation into line with EU legislation, which we will at best join in 2020. I don't know how you think that by these measures relating to agriculture you can raise, Mr. Minister, 63,000 ha of vineyards, which, through the technical part of the EU SAA, has defined as a possibility for Serbia. These measures depend not only on the year of birth or not on the weather, but on the strategy and the plan in two, three and five years. What about farmers, natural persons, who are involved in the production of brandy and other alcoholic beverages, who do not have the possibility and do not have the status of legal persons or entrepreneurs and who are the only source of income. It is known that during the debate conducted on the law on brandy and other alcoholic beverages, the possibilities for private persons to be involved in legal production flows were discussed through a cooperative or cooperative model. For these reasons, the DSS has submitted an amendment to improve this law and thus enable these people to deal with this production, which is essentially a basic source of income. It's interesting who from the ministry or the government decided to throw the proposal out of the law. It is obvious that the ministry and government have no vision of what the fruity and winery Serbia wants. It is also worrying when it comes to measures and strategy to take care of anti-urban protection, as my fellow MP, Kenan Hajdarevic, spoke of. I will inform you only that Serbia is optimally needed around 18,000 anti-citizen missiles annually, that in 2008 alone, there were direct damages to 32,000 ha of land. I come from Rasin County and I know that more or less every construction station in Rasin County has five or six missiles and that essentially this country needs about 14,000 missiles and is projected by the budget of 14,000, and then by budget rebalance that amount is reduced to 9.350 rockets. tender documentation has been carried out, the Alzheimer's have not gone directly to the purchase of these products, and we also know that I end up, that the main and exclusive manufacturers of the anti-urban rockets are domestic producers. When I say domestic producers, I mean Polyester Priboj, I mean Krusik Valjevo, and I mean Trayal from Kruševec. These are domestic companies that employ a large number of citizens, i.e. workers from Serbia. I am surprised for these reasons by your response that it has already entered into a negotiation or that it has entered into the process of obtaining 5,000 anti-building missiles. However, according to the data I have, the Hydrometeorological Institute has so far failed to enter the procurement procedure for anti-building missiles at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19321	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19322	I thank Mr. Milos Radulovic for his constructive discussion. What I'd like to say is that I assume that you prepared the exhibit before we entered the discussion of the laws, so I'm going to repeat those things that I already mentioned once. As for the law that defines the production and placing on the market of brandy, or other alcoholic beverages, as well as wine, I once again mention one very important thing. Each registered individual agricultural producer to be identified will be able to produce and market alcoholic beverages according to the country's rules and nothing has changed recently. You just have to register for that kind of production. It's the most normal procedure. That's what it's been, if you remember, every man who puts his brandy on the market has to buy excises and stick them on a bottle, as it goes. This only better regulates the area as regulated in the EU. You don't have to worry, it's really like that and you can check it out. As for anti-urban protection, you may not have the latest data, for the reason that about a week or two ago, it was a city and it hit a difficult and Kragujeva district and the surroundings of Novi Sad, I immediately asked you to report to me how much the rocket was spent and whether there was enough and all that mattered. We've got 12,000 missiles on the lager, plus 5,000 missiles already acquired. You said that well about 12,000 to 14,000 a year, so there's more. It's very important how these missiles are used. I can honestly tell you, I'm not happy with the way they're used. Very often, they fire them from sending them to the army, to the country's fame, until people say that these rockets get "foots", or they move from one place to another. That's a big problem. For this reason, RHMZ is talking to the military, that the military is taking over the anti-urban protection system, and that it is going absolutely to sowing the building clouds from the aircraft, as it is done in all developed countries, and in this way large, large savings are being made, in fact, covering Serbia as a whole. In this way, pilots are also allowed to have a sufficient number of flight lessons and enable our anti-urban protection to be far more effective than ever before. I thank you for your discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19323	Right on line, MP Milos Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19324	Mr. Minister, you said if he registers, a natural person if he registers his product. So we already have two entities -- they're a legal person or an entrepreneur, and the legislation needs to enable the association of natural persons to enter the Ministry's register, but it's not regulated by law. That's one thing. Two, I have yesterday's data. As far as the Hydrometeorological Institute is concerned, the hydrometeorological institute has not yet entered the procurement process for anti-urban missiles. It's possible you have information from people that they need to get in, but they haven't made the purchase of anti-grade missiles.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19325	The word of the Messenger of the people is Zeljko Brestovici. After him is the messenger of the people, Munir the Poturak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19326	Madam Vice-President Comic, respected ministers, members of the government, it is your honor, today you have illuminated the face of the Republic government and shown all the ministers how ministers should be treated, representatives of the Republic Government in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. It's an honor to have you act like this today in these 10 hours of debate over a package of laws that are very serious. I come from Srem, Shed municipality, the village of Erdewik. It's part of the Vojvodina of the Republic of Serbia, which we can say has both wine and pork. He's interested in a complete agricultural problem. We have a lot of problems, but today's work of the Ministry, especially Minister Dragina, with its associates, shows that this government, this congregation majority that is today taking care of agriculture, is not the one who will whine and moan over problems, but with projects like this, like 15 legislative projects that are on the agenda today, after almost four years of work of the Serbian Parliament, no law has been on the agenda, today we have 15. Unfortunately, Serbia's public service since 1800 hours does not broadcast in a direct programme of this debate. In the small hours, about 2400 or one hour, a delayed transmission will be broadcast, the recording. At that time, all our honest agricultural producers are already sleeping deeply and will not see this debate. That's a fact. I can tell you that even today's debate in this period until 6:00 p.m. has shown that MPs on this set of laws, other than the length of the debate, with which I agree conditionally, have no major fundamental objections to these laws that you have proposed here today. No one commented on the issue of the agricultural law that things will be resolved systemically, that rural development of Serbia will be regulated in the right way. No one has any objection to what we will do in the next period, and what we promised in the pre-election campaign to our voters, our agricultural producers, will make a system of auctioning state agricultural land in a two-circular system, that all of the Catastrian municipalities will have the opportunity to participate first in the bidding. No one has had any objections that anyone who bids land and wins on that bidding will have to pay for what they haven't paid so far. No one had any objections that the priority in the specified land would be the livestock producers, that they would have the right to priority those who have irrigation systems. No one has noticed that cattle will have the right priority on their throats. This shows that this law is quite good, moreover, this law has not yet worked in practice, but has done all that we had in the previous period, and these are: strikes, blockades, problems of taking possession, court proceedings, etc., and ultimately damage to the budget and budget users. This law will disable it and make one quality solution for the next period. No one had any objections today about the new wine law, and fortunately, the law that has so far functioned as a law on wine and brandy is separate. Since my friends who do this production can't say one barrel or one barrel can be used for both wine and brandy. This must be separated, so the wine and brandy laws must be separated. No one has had any objections that we will come to the geographical origin of our products, our vineyards. We won't have that problem we had as agricultural producers dealing with wine, winemaking. Someone there imported cars and cars of bad wine from neighboring states. This will be eliminated by this law on geographical origin, etc. No one had any objections to saying this, and many also abused the pay phone and the media: yes, the minister wants to ban the roasting of brandy. That's not true. No agricultural producer will be damaged in such a way that they will not be able to make fruit brandy, wine, grapes, but for their own needs, not to put it on the market. No one had any objections to the law on livestock farming, no one specifically, except the respected professor Mašić, who had had more petty objections and who, by his work and in the Committee on Agriculture, made one positive atmosphere, and who contributed to many of these positive laws. I hope that his remarks will also be appreciated in the debate in particular, and I think that this work that is shown here today, which has been shown over the previous 10 months of this ministry and made up of this number of legislative proposals. I hope we have a very quick and cooperative law, which is very interesting for people on the ground. I think all of this shows that the Ministry has earned a high grade, and after the debate in particular, I have submitted several amendments, when adopted, I think these legal acts will provide a great deal of quality, better productivity and a much better life in the country and people who deal with agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19327	The People's MP Munir Poturak has the word, followed by MP Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19328	The Honorable Chairman, Mrs. Comic, the honourable ministers, the respect of your fellow MPs, after all these praises, every criticism would be small in any case, but I think these 15 laws in the field of agriculture, and the expectations of our citizens living from a factory under the clear sky, may come at the right time, now that this economic crisis has come to our country as well, and when we have recognized and we have started to think, and where are our advantages and where our shortcomings. I have the impression so far, up until a year or two ago, that many in this country were in charge, and they literally didn't know that the citizens of this Serbia lived somewhere in the south, east. They weren't even aware that there were these mountain-mounted and rural areas and what problems these people had. Perhaps these laws now make people recognize the individual differences that people meet somewhere less educated, where they have no chance of being competitive compared to some high-productive areas in the area of agriculture, where they are far from the roads of importance. And this may be a chance to bring people closer through these laws, and to those who operate this state and those who need to feel blessed. I would especially like to refer to the law on agriculture and rural development. My colleagues have also talked about other laws, and we need to understand that this is one package in which to create a mile or base for what is the country's strategic goal, which is to get closer to the EU as soon as possible. The path, the steps in this direction are those laws that we adopted ten days ago in the field of environmental protection, and this second package in the area of agriculture protection, healthy food and healthy environment, all of which is one package that creates an ambience for our people to live better, to show their potential within themselves, to find encouragement in these laws, which in some way finally regulate the path, the course of how we develop strategically, not so short-term from the change of power to change, but to this law, first of all, in rural development, it is arranged for the strategy to be adopted within a year, which should be at least 10 years, that certain sublaw acts that follow these offices during this year. I wish this was a time when people can hear, I don't think anyone's gonna be watching tonight, but it's the intention, first of all, that people understand the point and send our farmers a message. They shouldn't, it's bad for them if they don't use fair funds that they get through subsidies, through various incentives from this country. The point of these, sometimes small funds, is to give people support, to encourage them until the moment this state accesss these funds to European funds. There is some information that says that some 250m euros in the period 2009 to 2013 should be obtained in the first one, to say, some kind of plan, and some 175m more, which should focus on the rural area space in this Serbia. No man who runs this country should lose sight of that in this Serbia about 70% of the area belongs to a rural area, by some statistics by some even more, and that almost 43% of the population lives in the area. People have to recognize the problems of those people who live there. It is not the same to live at 500 and at 1200 or 1300 altitudes, such as Pestarska visorvan, Zlatibor or some other region, where municipalities are otherwise categorized as the poorest municipalities in Serbia. It's not poverty because they're somewhere in that hill-mounted area. Unfortunately, people live by habit, by tradition, to produce as much as they need to meet their personal needs and possibly little if they can produce to sell something to settle some regular other foods or to trade. There is no tradition, as it has in developed productive areas such as Vojvodina. There is not enough education or people who have such specialist knowledge, who can see what quality there is, which are advantages, with which products people can be competitive, to give that momentum, for which they would be identified, why they would stay in the country to live and why they would simply unite their families in a way that this agricultural family ownership would be the basis in these areas. It's just, as they say, I'd like on one case that's been coming out in the papers these days and in the press, which I wasn't aware of, even though I'm with the Caves, which is that these days, as our people say, the cowardly peasants from the Caves, because they can't get their own cheese, who in the last two or three years have been gathering in their helmets in hopes of selling it at the market, for a few reasons, you have to understand why these cavemen can't sell it. It's not just that traditional production of that shadow cheese. And as he was, he sold himself in Montenegro and sold himself somewhere in Kosovo. What's happened to the borders, somehow that space shuts down. Simple space, the market is reduced, and the production of milk and milk products has grown quite logically because it accumulated year by year. If it's an opportunity for you as a minister and your team, which I know many have been in that space before, not only as representatives of the government, but as expert associates of international organisations, it's an opportunity for us to be this teamed up to find a solution for these people, to find the opportunity to sell that cheese, place it, process it. There must be a solution. It's hard to say in life that there's no solution. If these people have been able to sell it so far, surely there is a way to find and find these people in as short a time as possible a solution. If there are some suggestions in the paper and on the site for people who have fed themselves because their parents sold that cheese, trained their children, provided them with student allowance, people carry it in themselves and will not forget in any way to engage as much as possible these days to get these people to meet. What would it mean to call this team the owners of the trade chain and put in that shadow cheese? I think Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis can pick up much of that amount in a month. I think it would be fair to these people. What can happen if we don't go out and meet these people? Probably that cheese, they say, in some cave of Dovebac, is, I say, the least, the worst solution, because from there it'll smell the least, but the next step is that they'll have to sell cows to get their loan back or survive. When they do, we no longer have peasants. The next step -- it will come around Belgrade, around Novi Pazar, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac. There will be some new unsettled settlements, the municipal infrastructure will be unsettled, the problems will increase, and that is what happened in the 1990s when this agrarian exodus appeared. Many are simple, because they did not have support, because they did not feel the encouragement to live because they are in the country, because their children cannot inherit habits that must be built on life in the country, so we are simply causing ourselves problems. This is how I had to act simply as a challenge for those applauses and praises that you have been given, because it is not only praise but also responsibility, so I ask you as soon as possible, from human, moral, for the reason that the Sandzak Democratic Party has always been with a democratic bloc in this Serbia, they deserve those people there to pay attention to them, to find a solution. To show that attention, because it would prevent the manipulation that these people can talk, to say that they are some other religion, some other nation, that they are somewhere in the seal of this state and that no one is paying attention to them. I carry from the heart what people think, and I think we have a chance to show these people that we care about them and that these people deserve attention and not just in that direction. People might have spilled milk two or three months ago, so we jumped in, so we made milk powder, which has a wider use. And here you'll find a solution. But this is a chance for all of us. Your team is educated, you have power and influence. It's time for us to end this together, the MPs and you from the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19329	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19330	One of the laws we're discussing today is the food safety law that will define that area closer. It is very important that every food product in Serbia must meet the basic hygiene requirements in order to find itself on the market, so it is a shadow cheese or some other hat, pyrotic or something. I can say, responsibly from this place, after consulting with the Director of the Veterinary Authority and with the Chief Inspector of the General Inspectorate, that by Monday, the one who is now coming, we will find a solution, so that there is no need in Serbia to throw away one gram of food. (Munir Poturak, from the place: thank you, too.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19331	The word has a folk MP Miroslav Marinkovic, followed by MP Petar Kuntic, who is the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19332	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr. Minister with an expert college, fellow Members and fellow MPs, has finally arrived a set of agricultural laws. This is an extremely important thing. As someone who I consider competent to say something about these laws, I have defined myself to say a few words about some of these laws. First of all, during today's debate, he prevailed in the wrong approach to the discussion of the food safety law, so I would like a practical example, which will also be understood by the citizens of Serbia, to explain what this is really about. It's very simple -- is this law that we're making, that we're talking about doing it because we have to do it for the EU, or is it a law that will allow every citizen in this country to know what he eats, know what food he eats, and whether it's healthy and whether it's controlled? This is the law that we want to protect from ourselves above all, not ourselves from others, and as citizens of Europe, we will certainly be, when we win European markets, interesting for other countries, when we are able to take care of ourselves. I would refer first of all to this law on food safety, which is a roof law, and which has accompanying laws for repercussion. Of course, he largely meant a very serious preparation for many years, so that it could be adopted and implemented in practice and have a purpose at all. The Food Safety Act meant the adoption of 10 legal acts, i.e. 10 laws of previous agriculture ministries, meant the adoption or security of an integrated border management strategy, which, in a simple way, would, without retaining shipments, without stopping the traffic of goods, allow the traffic to be carried out uninterrupted, without any over-examination, which would be fully defined through this law. So what can be clear to every citizen - this is one of the most important, most important for our country, and one of these 15 laws, which practically, or the Ministry of Agriculture, on which I sincerely congratulate him, because he fully fulfils the obligation, that is, to bring legal legislation in this area into line with legislation in the EU. It is a big deal, because many countries that are today and EU members have failed to fully comply with this legislation, and we have in front of us means a competent ministry that has succeeded. Every citizen in Serbia, from field to table, as it is popular to say, will have the opportunity to know in all segments of production whether this product is healthy, if it is animal, animal origin, from which animals are encouraged, how it is prepared, how it is controlled and in which stages of production is controlled. The passing of this law has one way that at a given time involves the division of competences, which is not the same in every country. So this was very successful, but it was very difficult to resolve, and in any case, this law makes it possible primarily for the people of Serbia to be safe to eat. In order for everything not to be so good, I will use my knowledge and knowledge that I have, and with one proposal that I consider well-intentioned, which I assume through the amendments, the Ministry will seriously consider. We as the users of the CARDS program, where we received certain funds that we formed so-called. The national laboratory and the complete equipment that belongs to that National Laboratory, we've practically got the first condition that we can guarantee in a competent way, People's to say, what our product has and whether it's healthy. In the law, I believe that this concept of national, or reference laboratories is not fully defined and that their number of seven at this time, in the economic situation in which the country is located, would mean seven institutions that would have a complete infrastructure that would certainly be a burden on the state, and nothing less would work if it were organised through a directorate representing one house with seven rooms. To not be too banal – these are institutions that would have obligations with regard to certifications they would have had and that they were individual, but would be provided through the Directorate, not through other forms, that we do not go beyond the agencies, which is not popular at all. This organization system is fully able to complete analysis, valid results and control fully competent and thus make the entire system seven times cheaper. In one word, the food safety law represents the installation of a system of control and the austerity of documentation that is necessary to know what we feed on, what we produce, how I welcome, this is a major European step for Serbia. It is not enough just to comment on EU accession as some kind of liquid that will make our lives better. We ourselves will make our lives better by this law, so we will be beneficial to others and others useful to us. The next law I'd like to say for a little while is a law on livestock. It's a very important law, since it was passed in 1991. I believe that livestock farming has progressed so much that certain methods of testing and control of animal productivity must have a more modern flow, to implement public services, i.e.. professional services which will perform their tasks not on the basis of the number of samples they perform, but on the basis of the obligation they will have to have to control as large a population as possible. This means that we would know what we are producing and that we could achieve our breeding goals through breeding programs in a valid way and have evidence for that. The proof of one of these, here's another example, is the Novosad Fair, where one small municipality of which I am a resident, which is the Svilajnac municipality, this year is the absolute champion of the cattle trade fair. I am very proud that this is the case, but this includes decades of work and I believe that such municipalities as Svilajnac, Velika Plana, Požarovac, Lajkovac deserve special programs and full presence of professional services, so that this progress of a genetics reserve is practically even faster, which represents a huge opportunity for exports. So what little anyone said today in the discussion is: agriculture is the export chance of this country, so exit, the password for the safe that we need to open, and where the money is. It will also be when we adopt all these laws, when all the strategies that have been adopted or adopted can be implemented, and that way when we come into a situation where we export to countries that are in the environment, such as Croatia, which has four times fewer cattle, although it is heard here that it is in decline, it is everywhere because more productivity is given more products in a smaller number of animals, professionally, also Slovenia that has seven times less livestock. I believe that the markets of the former republics of Yugoslavia are quite enough that we can demonstrate our abilities and provide additional resources that will practically refresh agriculture. The Animal Welfare Act, in the end, is an excellent law, thanks to the Ministry of Agriculture, the bill has been completed, with great involvement by non-governmental organisations that fight in the spirit, but for animal rights, not fighting for the rights of animal owners to take care of these animals seriously. In principle, the law is complete, comprehensive, some technical solutions, i.e. amendments made by my esteemed colleagues, are entirely meaningful and they will give to the quality of the law. I expect that these amendments will be adopted and that this law, as another European law, will give this ministry legitimacy, as the ministry that is on this ship going to Europe, will succeed in taking one important ship and moving away at least a few steps ahead. I thank you and hope that, with the adoption of these amendments, you will allow this law to be passed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19333	The word has a folk MP, Petar Kuntic, and he is the last registered speaker in today's working day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19334	The Honorable President, the Honorable Mr. Minister with Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, the Honorable Citizens, I think today we have had the opportunity to hear about all these 15 laws very comprehensively. In his opening statement, the minister gave a review, recapitulating all 15 laws. It is very difficult now in the end, respecting this time, to single out a law that would be said of something, but since I personally come from this branch, in my opinion, the strongest law, the law that will change the image in the future of Serbia's agricultural producer, is the law on public storage. So, for most citizens of the country, we have one in a series of laws in the area of agriculture. Better knowers of the agrarian situation believe that this law, the law on public warehouses, is revolutionary. Why? With the establishment of a public storage system, farmers will be able to borrow from their produced agricultural production, instead of through mortgages on their own land or on their own house. products, including cereals, fruit and vegetables. For those agricultural products, public warehouses will issue records, or as said by the minister, the publishers, which will also allow farmers to sell their goods at the most favourable moment on the market. Also, this law prevents large differences in the price of buying agricultural products because the supply of goods will no longer have a campaign character. The agricultural producer will not have to sell its product stored in an authorised warehouse, which is one of the registers of public warehouses, but will be able to submit a request for credit to the bank for the purchase of raw materials, for the purchase of machinery, for the purchase of land, etc. With this document, the agricultural producer will be able to appear on the stock market. In the second step, for these purposes, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development will, through business banks, invest money in a system that will allow public storage facilities for agricultural products to start operating in Serbia, as already works in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Bulgaria, something in Hungary, etc. It remains after the law is passed that business banks show interest. If that doesn't happen, then we'll get the case of Poland, where the law on public warehouses hasn't had full affirmation. All in all, given tradition, huge agricultural areas, storage facilities, Serbia has a huge unrealised capacity to be one of the main food producers in the environment in the future, especially in the environment in the CEFT system. It's about the law on public warehouses. I'm just going to touch the agricultural land law a little bit, and that part about the issue of state agricultural land, for one single reason, because I was head of the commission back in 2006, which was the first in this country to formulate so-called. Saturday's model of issue, two-circuit, agricultural land, and which has been rejected three times in two ministries, to welcome that precisely on the basis of this model we have the law now and now all municipalities will be able to apply this law and that practice. The practice proved to be excellent, over 150 individual agricultural producers, small and medium, in Saturday's atara, it gained land in battle with tycoons, but we had little to change this law because it was not yet in force and we managed to do so at some medium price, which also satisfies the municipality, the province, the Republic, and especially individual agricultural producers. Then why did we do it? Because we were fortunate to have very strong associations of agricultural producers in the area where I come from, and we literally let them conceive this, and they, if through associations, make a plan, some of their own programs, very rarely they may be wrong, because it's their skin, and thanks to that struggle with the windmills, because in a certain period I've had the terrible attacks of mass media due to the third time that this programme was rejected, that, like us, we're doing it on purpose so that these officials, tycoons, could further process state agricultural land. I am particularly honored today that this law and the struggle with windmills has not been in vain and that, thanks to this assistance, the association of agricultural producers from the area where I come from, they will receive legal form and soon the whole country will be able to apply this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19335	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups, someone who has not used his right under Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah. ) The word wants a representative of the proposings, agriculture, forestry and water industry, Sasa Dragin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19336	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has been an extraordinary honor and pleasure for me today to attend this assembly session. I thank all exhibitors for an extremely good discussion, and for those we agree with and with those we sometimes disagree less with. I can say that I would like to express my sincere thanks to the president of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, Mr. Masic, for having been extremely helpful in the past 10 months to solve all the problems that the Serbian agrarian has faced in the right way, together, constructively and in the best interests of Serbian agriculture and Serbian peasants. I'd also have to thank them for what I've done to them for the past ten months, how much I've made them work, how long they've stayed at work and didn't get a dinar over the salary. I really appreciate the help of all those people we can't see here, and the hardest part is that, because of the reduction of administration, some people's services will have to give up. It is very important that we get close to the EU as soon as possible. I think we spent all our time in the 1990s in vain, while we were dealing with ourselves, others, who were far behind us, went much ahead of us. If we look at the 2000 period, with all due respect, we have to give ourselves a self-critic. I think we could have done more. I'm very glad that this esteemed home now works this way, very well, to listen to each other, to talk. Be assured that as long as this job is done, this job will work sacrificedly and exclusively in one interest, in the interest of the Serbian farmer. I thank you again for all the amendments you've made. We have already looked at these amendments, processed and believed that, regardless of who the political options come from, any amendment that we find can improve the legal areas that regulate these 15 laws will be adopted without distinction. I thank you again and pleasantly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-15-0.u19337	I am concluding a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, the Proposal for a Law on Food Safety, the Proposal for a Law on Plant Health, the Proposal for a Law on Plants, the Proposal for a Law on Plant Protection, the Proposal for a Law on Wine Protection, the Proposal for a Law on Cancer and Other Alcoholic Drinks, the Proposal for a Law on ethanol, the Proposal for a Law on Public Storage for Agricultural Products, the Proposal for a Law on the Virtue of Animals, the Proposal for a Law on Changes and the Supplements to the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Planters. By completing a joint principled search for today, we are finishing our work. The assembly session will continue on Monday, May 18th, at 10.00pm, in the principle of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Foreign Affairs Act. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the sixth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 101 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall, that is, more than one third is present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of MPs Radoslav Mojsilovic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Riza Halimi. I would like to inform you that the President, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is in agreement with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the proposing representatives, called for the sittings to be attended by Borko Stefanovic, the head of the foreign minister's cabinet and Aleksandar Crevar, an adviser in the foreign affairs cabinet. We move to the 19th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Gender Affairs (Principles) You have adopted the bill, which was submitted by the Government. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 parliamentary group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP Group of MPs – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak for up to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that on this point in the agenda of the parliamentary group, it will represent: MP Mladen Grujic of the New Serbia MP, MP Nikola Lazic of the DSS Parliament Group, MP Dejan Mirovic of the SRS parliamentary group. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the bill. Does the foreign minister's representative, Vuk Jeremic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? Yeah. )
