ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29329	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that we have conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that MP Aleksandra Jankovic has been prevented from attending the session. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the President of the Proposer, Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy and Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, National Assembly President, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, called for the meetings of the Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, Igor Vukonjanski, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, Dejan Radulovic of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and Zeljko Čurguz, Senior Council of the Republic of Law. We move to 9th, 10th and 11th points of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on civil servants and draft laws on the provision of a maximum number of employees in the Republic and in the Local Administration (the follow-up of a common principle search) before we continue to open the principle search on the mentioned points of the agenda, I remind Members of the MPs that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent the following MPs by these points of the agenda: MP Milisav Petronijević, MP of the SPS Group, MP Zoran Shami, MP for the DSS, MP for the members of the National Assembly of Jorgvanka Tabaković, MP for Serbia, Mr. Miričkikovnik, Mr. Mirić, Mr. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Minister Milan Markovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mladjan Dinkic, Minister Rasim Ljajic and Minister Zarko Obradovic have the right to speak. Please log in to the electronic system if you want a word. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29330	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will say a few words about amendments to the Law on Civil Servants. It's about changing the law that you have before you, and a broad explanation, and I'm going to tell you why we decided on these amendments to the law, why they were necessary and what they wanted us to achieve. It's been three years since the Civil Service Act was applied. There is no dilemma that the Law has established a brand-new service system in the Republic of Serbia and that the basic values of this law, or system, should be preserved. However, as could be expected, when such a reform was carried out during 2005 and 2006, it is perfectly logical that not all circumstances can be predicted, nor all the consequences of such a broad and comprehensive legislative solution. I remind you that then the entire official system is set on a career basis, very rigid, very strict, as it is similar to the state administration, that all civil servants are divided into two categories, which are in positions and executive jobs, and that there are also deputies, to whom the provisions of this law are not applied, but the Labour Act. It should also be taken into account that a new system of salaries was introduced, through the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies covered by this law, and that a completely new system was established, which is one of the cornerstones of the overall reform of our state administration, which involves, above all, depolitisation and professionalisation of the state administration. The extent to which this new system has responded to the tasks is best seen through the fact that of the total number of civil servants, it is in positions, and you know that this is a variable category, given that the number of civil servants depends on the number and type of public administration bodies, therefore, of approximately 350 positions, is filled in slightly less than 50, and 40 and some positions in competitions. So we can say that after three years of applying this law the system did not experience its affirmation through positioning. The reasons are multiple. One reason is that this is already the third government to operate on the principle of civil servants. We had two choices, which certainly disrupted the positioning process. The second reason is, in some ways, inert when initiating competitions by organ managers. The second thing that has been seen as a failure to realize the ideas of this law, this 2005 reform, is that the system, which must be rigid, must be rigid, has shown certain elements of dysfunction. Let's say, it's interesting to say that the position, at best, takes 87 days, and for execution sites it takes, you won't believe, even eight months. So, to get a civil servant into the execution post, it's been eight months. This leads to the fact that managers, in one way or another, avoid the provisions of this law, using various other forms of working engagement, whether they are working relationships or perhaps out of the circle, even labour contracts, which, by their nature, would have to be out of the works of the body, but, unfortunately, they have been used in the previous three years. There are no exceptions. I have to say, it's been happening to all major ministries, no matter who the ministers were in these three years, because they objectively had the needs. In smaller ministries, the real situation was much simpler, because it is a smaller cleavage, hence the obligation. We have about five of the most important areas that we treat with these amendments to the law. The amendments to the law, as you have seen, are large, have over 50 members. We're treating five authorities. The first authority is an evaluation of the work of civil servants. It is that it has been noted that in practice so far, the issue of labour evaluation has been dysfunctional. It was also very interesting that, in some ways and naturally, managers, or those who evaluate civil servants, when assessing people in their sector, avoid giving bad grades. So it goes through a line of less resistance. A certain principle of responsibility for work has collapsed in this way. On the other hand, it's very interesting that a good part of this matter is regulated by regulations, so now we've introduced into this law something that has been regulated by regulations so far, which is an evaluation of work. The value of the work is now in the law a brand-new mechanism. Quarterly, the work of civil servants is being evaluated. When a public official doesn't get a satisfactory grade, he goes to an emergency evaluation within a month. It is a chance that within one month he will improve his work, or the results of his work, and if he does not correct them, he will be assessed by an assessment – he does not satisfy and that is the basis by which he, by law, will lose his job. Another interesting thing has proved through the application of this law, and that is, let's say, that we have a large number of civil servants who, if they wanted to go into a larger calling, under the provisions of the existing law, would have to leave their working relationship indefinitely and enter a trainee working relationship, therefore, into a working relationship for a certain period of time, and that after the traineeship has expired, they become state officials of higher knowledge. I'm not saying it's illogical, let's understand each other right now, but the fact is, you have to give a chance to people who get an extra education in the course of work in the state administration. They should be given a chance, let's say, to move from calling the referent to calling the younger counselor. We've now dealt with these changes and additions to the law. The third important element is that we have done more precisely the disciplinary responsibility of civil servants; we have introduced two new actions that are treated as injuries to labour discipline. Interestingly, the arrival in an alcoholic state could only be subjected to some kind of unworthy or unwitting behavior. We've now predicted it as a major violation of labour discipline. Unfortunately for us, this was necessary because there are people who are unable to refrain from using alcohol, or who could not refrain from going to work in an alcoholic state, or from doing so while at work. So we've completely sharpened these disciplinary measures, and I've simplified the process and the determination of responsibility, which is also important. There is a lot of talk in our public, and in practice it has been observed that there is a rather casual attitude of civil servants towards the work they do and it is very important to tighten disciplinary responsibility. I want to tell you right now what I think is important, in order to avoid any criticism during the debate, this is only in the material and legal sense of tightening. All the protections that have existed so far exist now with civil servants, and they have the right to appeal against any decision to the Board of Appeal, after which they have the right to appeal in the administrative dispute. Therefore, there is no dilemma in this regard that employee rights are not touched in any way. As I said earlier, that a civil servant would be admitted to an executive post, it would take eight months. That's why we've completely redecorated the way we're getting into work. We haven't invented anything new, this is something that used to exist, and in part is a new principle. First, the organs themselves will question the competitions. There's no need for all the competitions to be won in the staff service. The Human Resources Service can't really carry out that kind of commitment, which is why it's waiting long enough for the competition itself to be announced after the initiative. So, the body itself will, in accordance with the personnel plan, call the competition. What's interesting is, in that ad, it won't just be written for which job, which are conditions, etc., but the ad will have to contain exactly the agenda, the whole schedule when what happens. The ad will show when written tests will be carried out, when oral tests will be carried out, when the final solution, i.e. the ranking list, and afterwards, which are deadlines for appeal will be published. In this way, I believe that getting into a working relationship will last at most a month, a month and a half, and it will be far more transparent than it has ever been before. On the other hand, when it comes to positioning, the staff management service will only have the obligation to call internal competitions for execution positions, so it will only have the obligation to call competitions for positions, which will make it much easier for the staff services themselves, so we can expect that the positioning, instead of the two and three months so far, will take a long, far shorter one. We've changed the conditions of progress a little, but I have to say, somewhat back-up. We have also provided for somewhat stricter sanctions that are due to disciplinary responsibility. What has been applied in practice so far is, among other things, that, for example, a state official who was in the execution post, when he becomes a civil servant in office, deliberately between himself and the civil servants, sets up a position of senior advisor or, possibly, that place is filled, so the first one is the next – an independent adviser. This, in practice, made it impossible for anyone to advance to the next position, except to leave the employment relationship and go to the competition, and from the competition to try to become a civil servant in office. Very interesting. It probably couldn't have been predicted in the original version of the Law, so in this version of the law, we predicted it. So, just moving through the service will be far simpler than it's ever been before. Also, the way I fill the place has changed. You know that so far there has been an internal competition, then after an internal - public competition, and then an internal A, then an internal B, then a public competition. It was all very, very complicated and that's why it lasted eight months. We have now introduced, first – that there is no obligation to internal competition, second – that there may be a transfer from the organs to the organs and, more importantly, that there may be a takeover under the organ managers' agreement. So we've done this law, hopefully, that the state administration itself is far more functional, i.e. that executives can bring state administration to the needs of work, because this so far, I say, rather dysfunctional system, has been very much maintained to the quality of work. Now, what I see through the amendments, which always causes attention, is putting civil servants in positions. As Minister of State Administration, both in the past and in this government, I insisted that this position take place, and I would ask a part of the opposition's distinguished colleagues to remember that it was hard to put them in positions, as it is now, and then we resorted to a new solution. Therefore, within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law, all authorities are obliged to initiate the procedure for filling the position. If the executives fail to do so, the personnel department will, by law, initiate a procedure to fill the position. In addition, since the competition happened without the organ leaders choosing anyone, and then again peace and quiet for six months or a year, we predicted that, by automaticism, as soon as the executive informed that he had not selected anyone from the list, the staff service renewed the competition. So the service will constantly renew the competition, and I think this will be a good mechanism to put it in place, because now those executives who do not put state officials in positions, or not to conduct a competition, will have great pressure, and at the meetings of the government itself, and probably in public, to put them in place. Then, we've done the termological alignments with new system regulations. The fact is, this is also one law in favour of more rational work and more rational administration. Among other things, the unscheduled status alone can no longer last for six months, can only last for two months. I have to admit that I had great dilemmas about the duration of unscheduled status and there were various opinions in the government. Some felt that the status of unscheduled should be lifted. I agree that there must be an unscheduled status; the state administration is not a private employer, certain protection of these civil servants must exist, so we found, in my opinion, an optimal solution, which is – two months of unallocated status. Although each of the fifty and a few members of the Law have some changes, I decided to highlight the changes in this opening statement only in these five areas. I believe we've made a good bill of law, and by the number of amendments to this law, I see there aren't too many controversial points. This was really necessary. I don't mean to shame the previous authors of the law, because they did a huge job and made a fundamental change in our official system. This law aims to preserve the very fluid introduced by the law, but the fact that such a major change required some mistakes. I think we're correcting those mistakes with this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29331	Before I ask other representatives of the government if they want a word, I would like to apologize to the members of the Parliament's Group, Forward Serbia and MEPs Jorvanka Tabakovic. I read the wrong name of the MP's group in an unintentioned oscillation which she decided to authorise, so I ask that the stenogram correct the error. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29332	I will present two laws to you, ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office: a bill to determine the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration and a bill to determine the maximum number of employees in the local administration. As you know, for many years it has been said that Serbia has an expensive state, that it has too much bureaucracy. However, no one has ever suggested what are the concrete measures to reduce bureaucracy, to make administration effective, to abolish unnecessary procedures. We have tried these laws to do so, both at the republic and at the local level. As regards the first law, it refers to the administration at the republical level and covers all the republican institutions, agencies, social security funds, except the Ministry of Defence, the BIA and the Administration for the Implementation of Institutional Sanctions, as the law provides for a maximum number of employees in those bodies to be identified by a new systematisation based on the consent of the Government and after an analysis of the state of national public security. In these institutions covered by the law, on 31 August of this year, 30,624 permanent employees and 3,400 employees on other grounds, so for a certain period of time, on temporary and occasional jobs. We proposed by law that the administration be reduced by about 10%, so that the maximum number of employees would be permanently determined at 28,400. So there are now 30,624 seats filled, and we suggest that new systems determine that the maximum number of people in the Republic administration cannot be greater than 28,400. It is our plan to reduce this number of 30,624 by about 3,400, so 2,800 constantly employed and 600 employees on other grounds, and to have some space of several hundred jobs, which would be filled if they were, and would, come up with some new jobs in Serbia's EU accession process. So 200 to 300 jobs will remain systematized and unfulfilled, so that they can be filled when new jobs are needed. In the coming period, there will certainly be new jobs, but some old jobs will not be necessary. Old jobs need to be shut down, and new jobs need to be introduced with the same number of people to perform new functions. The aim of the law is, above all, to improve the administration. The cost effect, too, is not for neglect, but it is not in the first place. So the efficiency of the administration is the most important objective of this law. As for the effects on costs themselves, they will feel, first of all, since 2011, that all those who are unsystematised, i.e. run out of work, will be entitled to severance and compensation from the National Employment Service. So in the following year, the direct financial effect will not be overly felt, it will be relatively small, but there will be a much greater impact on the speed of work of the administration and the abolition of unnecessary procedures costing the economy. That is why we have determined that the basic criterion on the basis of which the Republic administration will be reduced will be the general usefulness of jobs for citizens and businesses and will be determined on the basis of recommendations from the special unit for the comprehensive reform of regulations, which the government formed a year ago, which has been doing an analysis, has been talking to the economy, with citizens, extensive surveys have been done, on which grounds so-called. The guillotine regulations and to remove some unnecessary bureaucratic procedures forever from our system. If we lift unnecessary procedures, there will be no need for jobs that have been linked to unnecessary procedures. Bureaucracies was created by people making up all kinds of jobs just to have a job. The problem is, when you invent a job that is unnecessary, then you hire people who work in the administration, but you do far greater damage to the economy and to citizens, who waste a great deal of time, often money, in order for these procedures to be carried out. To give you an illustration of what procedures it is, I'll tell you something about the very project of comprehensive regulation reform, because it is closely related to this area. In fact, the aim of the comprehensive reform of the rules is to reduce the administrative costs of business by 25%, to put all harmful and unnecessary procedures out of force and to abolish, wherever possible, so-called. One-stop-shop system, because today we have a lot of cases that more state institutions do the same thing and needlessly bothers both citizens and businesses, plus paying taxes in multiple places. Also, to introduce the principle that the silence of the administration is equal to the approval, so that the silence of the administration means approval, that is, if it is not given an answer to an object within a certain period, that the subject is considered to be approved. This will all significantly improve the business environment in the country. What are the basic areas, i.e. the process of whose reform was sought by representatives of the economy, with which extensive surveys and talks were conducted during this work over the last year? First, the biggest cost that currently exists in the economy is the triple registration of new workers. When hiring new workers, when checking out old workers, you have to go to three counters. Also, businessmen complain of complicated procedures in the Tax Administration. They also complain about inspections, which are uncoordinated, about the need to sign various unnecessary forms and over-report a number of state authorities. Of course, they are also complaining about the process of issuing construction permits, they are also the biggest complaints, but the process is related, above all, to local self-government. I'll give you a few examples. Today, for example, the registration and check-in of employees is done in three places: the National Employment Service, the Pension Fund and the Republic Health Insurance Office. The individual tariff charged is 252 dinars, but in order for someone to carry out the procedure to report one worker, it takes an average of 4 hours and 30 minutes, because it has to go on three counters. Given that this process takes place 1,358,000 times a year, the total cost for the economy is 16,000,000 euros. So 16,000,000 euros in various fees are paid for these three institutions, to sign up and check out workers, and to waste a lot of valuable time. Since 1 January, our proposal is that registration be made only in one place, and this is the counter of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, where at the same time the health book is certified, and that, by electronic means, data is exchanged between the Republic Health Insurance Institute, the National Employment Service and the Pension Fund. What does that mean? This means that some people in the Pension Fund are going to lose their jobs and that means that some people in the National Employment Service are going to lose their jobs because the work they've been doing so far is becoming unnecessary. In every pension fund branch, this job is done today by two people. There are 160 branches, times two, that's 320 people. So 320 people do it all day long, and this procedure is absolutely unnecessary at the time of electronic reporting. We have already introduced a similar thing to the Agency for Business Registers; the registration and issue of the tax identification number was also three places. Now it's all done in one place, at the Agency for Business Registers, and in this way it's significantly reduced time for company registration. I'll give you some more examples. When the company's headquarters is changed due to the application and check-out of the FIB, as a result of the change in its headquarters, four hours for each individual businessman is lost and costs 300,000 euros per year. I'll give you some banal examples, too. Today's payment is made in three accounts. Due to excess payments, it costs an economy of 28m euros a year, only because they pay three jobs for one employee. If profits are paid, which we will propose, only on one basis, savings are as much as 20m euros per year. So it's not about small numbers at all, even though it's about seemingly banal things. I'm going to give another example of the banal thing that the economy is extremely complaining about, and it's very easy to change that. In fact, there was a provision from the 1990s that the travel order was issued every seven days. Therefore, the importance of the travel order is seven days of everything, so it happens, given that an average of one vehicle warrant is issued per week, because it has 52 weeks a year and 200,000 vehicles used by the economy, that a total of 10.4 million travel orders are issued annually, and thus a significant cost is paid. If only the importance of a travel order is extended from seven to 30 days, the savings are as much as 21m euros. Also, on every travel order, an authorized person today has to verify the technical correctness of the vehicle. If that is lifted, since it is unnecessary, the savings would be 28 million. As far as inspection services are concerned, it is all about the subject, when the one-stop-shop system is introduced, it will shrink, cut unnecessary jobs. Today, unfortunately, inspection services work unorthodoxly, overlap jurisdiction, different inspections control identical documents, multiple sanctions for the same failures. Because of all this, we have an unequal practice and, as a consequence, corruption. Today we have 10 ministries, even 24 inspections, plus the IRS. Of which, inspections are organized so that they work on a large number of territorial units. The market inspection, for example, works in 27 departments and 26 departments. The labour inspectorate works in 28 departments and departments. The tax administration has five regional centres, 80 branches and 93 exposures. The proposal will be to reduce the number of regional units of these key ones to a maximum of 16, i.e. to match the number of commercial trade courts that exist in Serbia, so as to combine information on who controls what, so that 20 inspections do not come into one company and none other. This way better coordination is carried out, then frequent regional rotations, so that inspectors from one city would not control businesses in the city, but in some other cities. In addition, the elimination of excessive reporting will be proposed. I'll set an example for the Ministry I run. In the area of foreign trade today, there are six areas, according to a law that is valid, where businesses seek different records, which no one ever looks at, reads or needs, of investment works abroad, which is done both in the NBS and the Ministry of Economy, the former ministry of economic relations with abroad. Also, other things are done both in Customs and the Ministry of Economic Relations. These are unnecessary things, and I'm going to suggest, based on what I've seen in the unit report, that a whole part of that sector be abolished that unnecessarily reported. Of course, that way, the people who did it can't keep their jobs. I'm going to give another example of excessive reporting. Today, for example, when someone changes the headquarters of a business subject, moves from one city to another, it must log out in the tax administration of its city, to apply in another city, and that is absolutely not necessary, because it can be done simultaneously at the Agency for Economic Registers. To log out and log out, he has to fill out 16 different documents in four copies of paper. It all fills in manually, and that's why some people in the tax administration's branches have jobs. The point is, by removing these unnecessary papers, unnecessary bureaucracy, life will be easier for the economy, but some jobs will be abolished. That's the essence of this reform we're talking about. Also, it is unacceptable that the same documents are required for citizens in multiple places. I'll give you a few examples. The confidence of indemnity is required in 48 different state bodies, a copy of the Agency for Business Registers – 55 authorities, the belief that no investigation is being conducted in six different places, a report on credits – in six places, the delivery of financial reports requires 28 institutions. Instead of asking citizens and making sure that every time they have to do a job, they're taking out a document that's being taken out, the state administration will electronically exchange those documents. That way, no taxes will be paid, it will be cheaper, and through the electronic exchange of state administration this job will be resolved. One of the major problems is the process of issuing building permits, given that it takes a long time, and there is the most corruption there. We're here, according to the World Bank's analysis, in the world's almost last place in the world. We are the worst in the world when it comes to the length of time needed to issue a building permit. It's something that's alarming. The Law on Planning and Construction has now been amended, however, I think the principle that the silence of the administration means approval will have to be introduced here, and that the deadline that exists in the Law will be treated as maximum. There's also a proposal for an economy, I'm just saying, that even a parallel republican counter would be opened, which would issue a building permit in case the local administration didn't do so within a certain time. So, in principle, the silence of the administration is equal to approval. In any case, the government's conclusion is that networking and the introduction of electronic administrations among all state authorities at the republican level ends no later than the end of 2011. Part of the reform we are going to do by the end of this year, by abolishing 200 sublegal laws at one of the government's sessions by the end of the year, and part of the regulation that implies these unnecessary procedures will be in front of you, in front of the MPs, and will be abolished no later than the middle of next year. As far as the second criterion for extra employees is concerned, it is an evaluation, in accordance with the Law on civil servants, as Mr Milan Markovic spoke of. This evaluation existed, as you know, in the law so far. In our talks with the trade unions, we agreed that during this rationalization, which we will carry out by the end of the year, all previous estimates that some employees have received in the past period, i.e. If he's been well rated, he can't lose his job now, and vice versa, if he's had bad grades so far and gets another bad grade based on this law, then he automatically loses his job, and he doesn't have a right to severance. So, two are the main ways to rationalise new job systems. This will be a predominant way, where unnecessary jobs will be abolished and, in that case, those who remain surplus will be entitled to severance, which will be paid for each completed year of work, at the height of a third of his average gross salary, and the average salary will be determined on the basis of the salary paid by the official in the last three months. Those who are a technological surplus, i.e. if their job is abolished on the basis of new systematicisation, will have the right to receive, in addition to the severance, a cash compensation for unemployment through the NZS. This payment amounts to between 80 and 160% of the minimum earnings in the Republic, which currently amounts to 15,138 dinars, and is paid within three to 12 months, in accordance with the Employment Act, and depending on the length of the employment. Also, those declared a technological surplus will be entitled to specific training, retraining and self-employment programmes by the National Employment Service. The law stipulates that individual systems must be adopted by 31 December 2009 for all state authorities, for social security funds and for agencies. Also, the structure will be determined by the government, by a special act under this law. So one sublegal act will determine how many, which agency, which fund, should reduce the number of employees, and based on the analysis I was just talking about. Payments in the 2010 budget will be planned only for these 28,000 and 100 employees for a certain period of time that will remain after this rationalisation. It is limited by law that the maximum number of employees at a certain time can be 10% compared to those who are at a certain time. The exceptions are the Office for European Integration, the Geodetic Institute, the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, because they employ a large number of fees, shooters, and they will be excluded from this provision. In the meantime, we have proposed to exclude the Republic Bureau of Statistics, since they, due to the polling, periodically employ a lot of people for a certain time, who, as researchers, are just doing their jobs and are not permanently employed. As far as the data is concerned, all data on the number of employees and persons employed on all grounds, by all institutions and agencies, unlike previous practices, will be made public and available on the Internet. So, all the laws are required to publish by the end of this year the data on the number of employees at their Internet presentation, while the Ministry of Finance will be obliged to run a register on the number of employees and persons employed and the total number of employees in the Republic administration will be on the Internet presentation of the Ministry of Finance. Finally, certain sanctions are also provided for in this law. The biggest sanction is that there is no salary for those who do not, given that the salaries will only be provided for in the budget for the number of people who provide for this law. There is also a moral sanction, which we are confident will never be imposed. This is a fine of a million dinars for the violation of the Head of State Administration, an agency, or a mandatory social security organisation, unless it adopts an act on the systematisation of jobs in accordance with the Government's decision. Why am I saying that I believe this is more moral sanctions than it's going to be real? Because I am convinced that all the ministers, all the directors of the agencies, all the fund managers will systematize in accordance with the law and there will be no need for this sanctions to be imposed. The second law, which is before you, is the bill to determine the maximum number of employees in the local administration. In a similar way as we set out in the Republic administration, we have begun to see if our local self-government employs a number of people in accordance with some European standards. We compared the number of employees in our municipalities with the number of residents and neighbouring countries and saw that we have more employees in the local administration than is the European average. This law treats 37,789 employees in the local administration, who are financed from the local budget. We got the data from the Department of State and Local Self-Government, and based on that data, I'm talking about everything we're going to talk about further. It should be said that even 101,665 employees work in local self-government. These are also those who work in public enterprises and other local institutions, which are not financed from the budget, but are charging their own services. Given that employees and their earnings in the Republic public enterprises will be treated with a special budget law, which will be in front of you soon, we have decided that both employees, i.e. the mass of salaries, the position of employees in local companies, will be treated in the same way as the law on the budget, where there will be a limited wage mass for the next year and for the republican public enterprises and local public enterprises, and to concentrate here, just as with the Republic, on those financed from the local budget. This law refers to units of local self-government, including the authorities of urban municipalities, institutions financed from the local budget, other than institutions in the fields of education, health and pre-school institutions, as well as companies and other forms of organisation whose sole founder is municipalities, i.e. the city, other than public enterprises, which are financed from the budget. The current situation is uneven in local self-government. There are bureaucratic municipalities, with too many employees, where, minority, the entire budget of the municipality goes to pay off the profits, so there is no money to pave the way and invest in the municipal infrastructure, to improve the functioning of the municipality, while there are also those municipalities that are very functionally organised and which, essentially, will not be subject to this law. I'll give you a few examples of cities with the same population, to see what differences there are today in Serbia. Let's start with cities that have a relatively small population, such as Plandište, which has 13.3.77 residents on the last 2002 census, while the Frogs have 13.034. Approximately, the Frogs and the Landish have the same number of inhabitants. The land site has 10.4 employees per thousand residents in the administration, while the Frogs have 3.8 employees per thousand inhabitants. With the same population, a huge difference. So no one in the Mountainyard can say – that's because we're small, specific, etc. If the Frogs have 3.8 employees per thousand, or 3.8 per capita, the Landist with 10.4 cannot say that there is no excessive number of employees. So he has to go into rationalization. Let's see some other examples. An example of a city with 17,000 inhabitants – Lykovac. He has seven employees per thousand inhabitants, while Srljig has three employees per thousand. Next, an example of cities with 26 thousand inhabitants. For example, Senta has 12 employees per thousand, while Topola has 3.7 employees per thousand residents, far less than Senta. Also, if we compare slightly larger towns, Prokuplje, with 49,000 inhabitants, there are 11.1 employees in the administration of a thousand inhabitants, while Kula has four employees per thousand inhabitants, with exactly the same number of inhabitants. If we look at even bigger cities, for example, Bor, with 56,000 inhabitants, there are 7.4 employees per thousand, and Parachin – 3.4. Also, Novi Pazar, with 86 thousand inhabitants, has seven employees per thousand, Loznica has 3.6 employees per thousand. Of these larger cities, Sabac still has only 3.4 employees per thousand, while Leskovac has 6.7 employees per thousand inhabitants. What else is the purpose of this law? The aim of the law is to allow local self-government to decide on its own whether under this law it will reduce the number of extra employees, or itself, to finance them. Unlike the republican administration, where it is an obligation to reduce the number of employees and to systematicize the total number of employees to 28,400, all municipalities here have the opportunity to decide for themselves. It is up to the municipalities to decide – whether too many employees will keep them and pay them themselves through local taxes, or whether they will reduce them and thus make use of their revenues for more efficient investments. The parameter that we introduced in this law is that the maximum number of unspecified employees in municipalities and cities cannot be greater than four employees per thousand, or 4 per capita, respectively. If someone has more than four employees in the administration, a thousand residents, they can decide to streamline by this law or say no, I want to keep all these employees, but I will pay them myself. Then the citizens of that municipality will know they're paying people in the administration. They need to know why their taxes and taxes go in, this case, that is, why they will go to finance extra employees in the administration. It's very important to understand. Under this law, no one is forced to reduce the number of employees at the bar, but they will not receive adequate transfers of funds from the republican budget, but will have to pay the surplus from their own budget, in whatever way they want. So, after the analysis we received from the cities, through the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, we came to the conclusion that there are 35 municipalities and cities where there is no need to reduce the administration, while in 110 municipalities and towns there are extra employees in local administration, and in 22 municipalities, or the city, there is a need to reduce the administration by 10%, in 35 municipalities – from 10% to 20%, in 45 municipalities – from 20% and in eight municipalities – by more than 30%, if this standard is to be achieved. To be precise, in these first 22 municipalities, it's a 10% reduction, and I said, by 10%, but it's not, because some should be reduced by just one clerk, so it's not by, but by 10%. I would take advantage of the opportunity to read the names of those municipalities that are currently not affected by this law, given that they already have a relatively small and efficient administration. The least convincing is Stara Pazova, 2.6 employees per thousand inhabitants. In second place are Ariel and Luciani, with 2.9 per thousand inhabitants. Also, a low number of employees have Bajina Basta, Topol and Svrljig – 3.1 employed by thousands of people. They have 3.2 employees per thousand of the people of Titel and Bogatic. Doljevac and Ruma have 3.3 employees per thousand inhabitants. Sabac, Cacak, Paracin and the Great Plan have 3.4 employees per thousand inhabitants and it is also a very effective administration. Ub, Krupanj and Ivanjica have 3.5 employees per thousand inhabitants. Zitoradja, Vladimirci, Pančevo and Loznica have 3.6 employees per thousand inhabitants, and Topola, Secanj and Indji – 3.7 employees per thousand inhabitants. Mali Zvornik, Aleksinac and Žabari have 3.8 employees per thousand inhabitants, Prepolje, Opovo, Ljubovija and Alexandrovac – 3.9 employees per thousand inhabitants and, finally, at this border of four per thousand inhabitants are Knic, Koceljevo, Valjevo and Kula. These are cities that, according to the data we have available, have met standards according to the law. As you can see, cities and municipalities in completely different areas and completely different parties are in power. So it obviously depends not on the area, but on the parties, but on the specific people who led the municipalities and who realized that they would benefit more if citizens' money did not invest in the salaries of the excessive, but in the local infrastructure and in the modernisation and development of their municipalities. We also introduced some corrective factors when reducing this number. Three corrective factors have been introduced into the law. The first corrective factor refers to small municipalities, these are municipalities of up to 15,000, which have around the world a slightly higher number of employees, compared to the number of inhabitants, than these large ones, given the small number of residents they have, and some jobs are fixed and cannot just be reduced. There's a correction factor of 50%. Those municipalities and cities that, through transfers, receive less than 20% of the total local budget, also have a 50% corrective factor. Logic is next. If someone, mainly, is financed from local taxes, then we are not going to interfere with whether there are more or less employees on this scale, as is the case with some who are mostly financed from the republican budget, or if citizens of local self-government are happy to pay extra employees, we are not going to challenge it, because it is the essence of local self-government that manages the place itself, or make independent decisions, but also that it carries the consequences of those decisions. So there's a correction factor of 50%. Also, for municipalities and cities where there is a huge reduction of more than 20%, we suggested that a reduction be required for half of what is exceeding 20% of the necessary reduction. In other words, if someone needs to reduce 40%, the correction factor is half of it. So only 30% is going to decrease, out of these 20, and over 20 is, therefore, half, 30. We were, even, relatively mild here, but there's no rationalization of something that's been cumulative for decades. We were aware of that, and that's why we introduced these corrective factors. Those municipalities that obtain conditions for both corrective factors can use both corrective factors in rationalization. Based on the data we had, we concluded that in local self-governments, if they all decided to rationalise their administrations in the way that the law proposes, 5,648 employees would be out of work, which is about 15% of the current number. Also, the maximum number of persons employed on other grounds, by a work contract, cannot be greater than 10% of the number of employees at a certain time in the local administration. The exception is, by law, the institutions of culture, which can have more than 10% employees and at a certain time and by contracts, given the nature of their work. All municipalities, under this law, will have until December 31st to decide which of these two options will be implemented. The first option is to reduce the number of employees to a level of four employees per thousand, or to decide on the option of paying for the surplus. If they decide to pay themselves extra employees, then the transfer from the republican budget will be reduced, by reducing the transfer by 1% to each tenth of the surplus staff, i.e. the number of residents of the municipality. In other words, if a municipality has 4.7 employees per thousand, and the standard is four, by 0.7 per cent to each prominence will decrease, so 7% will be a reduction in the transfer from the republican budget. Those municipalities that do not make these systems by 31 December are reducing transfers under this formula from 1 January of next year. The municipalities that do so later, during the year, from the moment they deliver a report to the government, or the Ministry of Finance, the proportional portion of the transfer is again starting to pay off, but not retroactively. Let's say, what they haven't paid since January 1st, so if they decided to cut the number of employees in April, they won't be returned, but since April, then, they make transfers, as they are given by the budget law, that is, the amount of transfer that is determined. The municipalities can also opt for a combined option, which is that one part of the employees is reduced and the other part is reduced through a reduction in the transfer, i.e. they pay themselves. So depending on what they do, they will have the appropriate effect on transfers from the republican budget, i.e. for those who remain overnumbered, they will have to pay out of their own budget. I'll tell you how to reduce this transfer, for example, in the town of Leskovac. Currently, after corrective factors, Leskovac has 6.72, and when corrective factors are introduced, from 6.72 per thousand inhabitants, it should be reduced by 317. The total monthly transfer of Leskovec in 2009 is 44,500,000 dinars. In the event that the municipality does not reduce any employees, they would have nine million dinars less. So instead of 44 million, they'd get nine million dinars less per month, and if they cut half down, or by 159 people, then they'd have a reduction of 4.5 million. So that's logic -- for every tenth of the turnover of extra employees and 1% reduction of transfers from the local budget. As for those who work in local administrations who, on the basis of new systematizations, become unallocated on 31 December, they, as well as employees in the Republic administration, will exercise the right to compensation, paid for each completed year of work, at the level of a third of their average salary, as well as on a cash compensation for unemployment through the National Employment Service and will be entitled to other programmes of the National Employment Service. As for those cities and municipalities that have fewer employees compared to these four prominions, they, according to this law, will also not have the right to increase the number of employees during the following year, and from 2011 they will be able to - up to a maximum of four prominions, but with the previous consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. with an explanation that these are new jobs that are necessary to increase the number of employees. The supervision of law enforcement will be carried out by the Ministry of Finance. Also, data on the number of employees and persons employed in the local administration will be made public and will be published on the Internet presentation of all those to whom the law applies, i.e. on advertising boards of municipalities. The finance ministry will run a register on the number of employees and engaged persons in local self-government and will be required to publish it on the ministry's Internet presentation as of January 1st. The manner and deadlines of reporting, contained in the register, as well as other issues that are important for the implementation of this law will be governed by closer, sublegal acts, by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So these are the two laws that we tried to regulate on system law an optimal number of employees, both in the republican and local administration, by leaving local administration with flexibility that, if they think they need extra people compared to standard, they can pay them from local incomes themselves. We think it is the first but necessary step in reducing the public sector in Serbia. Currently, about 550,000 employees work in the public sector in Serbia. It's more than proportional in other countries. In the next period, there is a need to modernise the work of administrations and in the general public sector, but also to reduce the number of people, i.e. to reduce the costs of the economy and citizens created by this rationalisation. So this is a choice between whether we want to keep the same level of bureaucracy, which we constantly complain about when we're sick, or not. The government has decided to go towards a reduction in bureaucracy and we are regulating it with laws, which, I must say, will be a major moral obstacle to all future Parliament's co-existences. Because if they say one day -- we don't want it to be this number of 28,400 anymore, but we want it to be 50,000, they're going to have to explain to the citizens why they're increasing the number of employees. This way, governments will no longer be able, without Parliament's consent, to increase the number of employees and, once and for all, that maximum number is determined in a legal manner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29333	Do any of the representatives of the motionors want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, MP Meho Omerovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? (No) Did the MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandar Pejcic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, consider the draft law on the establishment of a minimum wrinkle of employees in the republican administration, want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29334	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the honourable ministers, I have set out my opinion in the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, and in my presentation I will focus on two laws, the law on determining the maximum number of employees in the local and republican administration. At the beginning of my presentation, I must express a surprise. In fact, you are representatives of a socially responsible government, which has promoted something completely different during the campaign, promoting 200,000 new jobs, promoting that you will bring some new investors into Serbia, which will also create new jobs, promoting that the pension will be 70% of the average of personal income. As thunder from the blue sky, you bring anti-constitutional, inhumane, socially unfair laws into this congregation. It is up to the citizens of Serbia to decide whether it is a social just government or a socially unjust government. As for other things, too, unclear to all of us, since we have two laws on determining the maximum number of employment - in local self-government and in the state apparatus, I ask you, Mr. Markovic, isn't that your workaround? Why did Mr Dinkic and his Ministry of Economy and Regional Development write these laws? It's a discredition of your personality, your ministry, it's a violation of the Government Act, which we adopted here. You have a particular section that you do business with, and you should have defended these laws, not Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. I'd like to ask you the first question, Mr. Dinkic. I insist that you answer my question - what is the criterion, which is a member of the 2nd law, to remain in the Republic administration 28,400 employees? On what grounds did you get that number? Why isn't 15.361? Otherwise, Serbian citizens must know that these laws are written because of IMF pressure to reduce public spending and deficits, although the savings will be extremely low. It would be better for this government to shrink itself, because it is one of the largest governments in Europe. In the world, only the Indian government is bigger, and when we compartmente India and Serbia, then the gauges are completely different. As for the law on local administration, certain mayors, the uplifting mayor, and one from your party, Mr. Markovic, in Leskovac, specifically, since you mentioned him, Mr. Dinkic, has already begun firing workers in the local administration, without any criteria, without the immunity of this assembly, without the imputability of this government. On the one hand, he lays off workers in public enterprises and local administration, and, on the other hand, he employs employment. For example, he hired his brother-in-law as an assistant with a salary of 1,000 euros. Typical nepotism regarding local self-government. In the end, I'd say certain things. The DSS is not against rationalising jobs both in the local administration and in the republican administration. Namely, if you remember, in 2005, one painless rationalization was made, in agreement with the social partner, the union, when 1.2% of the workers left the republican administration; 2,900 went into early retirement, on the principle of volunteering. Another question for you, Mr Dinkic - why is there no principle of volunteering in this law? In previous rationalization, he was the principle of volunteering, and he's not here. At that time, the European Commission also praised the rationalisation, in its 2005 report, as the best rationalisation and reform in the state administration. We offer you two solutions. The first solution is to withdraw this law from the assembly procedure, first of all, because this law has not passed a public debate, you do not have the consent of a social partner, you do not have the consent of the union, who has submitted a bunch of amendments to these laws; they have sent them to all parliamentary groups, including ours. The other thing to do is to review the DSS amendments, which, through the form of the amendment, have submitted a whole new, socially just law, which is correct, which is good and which will have the consent of the social partners, i.e. The union. A third question for you, Mr Dinkic, who is interested in all Serbian citizens. Of course, I'm not going to ask you 1,000 euros, because that's the story you told when the elections were, but -- when are you going to tear this government down, so we can go back to the elections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29335	The river has Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic, followed by Minister Milan Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Dinkich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29336	There were two questions. First, what was the criterion to determine the maximum of 28,400 employees? It is certain that the Republic administration has at least 20% surplus. We decided that based on the visible indicators that we got from the unit for the comprehensive regulation reform, we would reduce that number by 10% at this stage, which is roughly the number we're talking about right now, although we wouldn't have been wrong even if we had gone to 20%, but we felt that in the year of crisis we should go with a slight reduction compared to what would be rational and necessary. Unfortunately, you know that there are people in the administration who work until 19 - 20 o’clock in the evening, come on Saturdays and Sundays to work, and there are those who watch what time it is, do nothing and have been protected so far as white bears; no one could fire them, unlike workers in enterprises who, when they were technologically excess, were fired. So, the administration was really overprotected and this law on civil servants, which we have now amended, allows for far easier entry into the workplace, on the one hand, but also far easier exiting from the workplace, unless certain criteria are met. The evaluation that has now been introduced for the next period will certainly be very important to further streamline the administration. First of all, the largest number of people will be out of work in these institutions that I've talked about, and based on the guillotine regulations, some unnecessary procedures will be lifted. I mentioned the Pension Fund, the National Employment Service, that's where most people will lose their jobs, in absolute terms, and in the ministries that are related to the economy, everywhere we have doubled procedures, there will also be rationalization. That's why this number is 28,400. The second question was – why is there no voluntary departure? This law does not exclude the possibility of voluntary departure, but unless there are enough of those who willingly want to leave, then you have a principle of morality. If we were to base everything on volunteering, the question is, would we get to the optimal? This way, we maximised the number of administration employees, which doesn't rule out that if someone wants to leave voluntarily, they can't, too, take severance and leave. I must say, I've conducted a study of voluntary departures in the institutions under my jurisdiction. A very small number of people have volunteered to go. People don't want to volunteer to leave the state administration, because she's safe, she guarantees you a job, and the responsibility is not proportionate to that security. That's the problem. With this law, especially the law on civil servants, and also on the maximum number, we want to introduce more competition in the administration and that, if someone has a job that is relatively secure, even if it has more responsibility for that security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29337	The word has Minister Milan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29338	It is not true that this is the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government's portfolio, because the authorities of the state administration are ministries, and the authorities of the administration are special organisations. As you can see, this law also applies to mandatory social security services, i.e. compulsory social security institutions and public agencies. Therefore, it is undeniable that this law is far beyond what the authorities of the state administration are; if the authorities of the state administration, it would be done exclusively by the Ministry of State Administration. Since various bodies are covered here, then the working group, headed by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and in this task force we participated in everyone, not only my ministry, but also the General Secretariat of the Government, and the Secretariat of the Legislatives. So it's more than 30, close to 40,000 people, i.e. slightly more than 30,000 people, and as you know, in the very organs of the state administration, far fewer people work. So we're talking about ministries, special organisations and administration bodies in the form of ministries. According to this calculation methodology, there are only about 24,000 people in those organs. On the other hand, when it comes to local self-government units, you know that around 23,000 employees are working in local self-government units today, but that's in the authorities of local self-government units. This law applies, as mentioned in Article 1 above, to a number of other organisational forms other than public undertakings. Both laws therefore have a far wider subject of regulation and therefore was not done by one ministry, it was not even done by the Ministry of Economy alone, but the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and Vice-President Dinkic were the bearers of this job, because this job is affecting matter, or employees to which several laws apply. In particular, in addition to the Civil Service Act, the employees we speak of are also subject to the Law on Labour in State Authorities. You know that by applying the Law on civil servants to employees of local self-government, it has remained to apply the Labour Act, which applies to these other organisational forms, which are listed in Article 1 of the Law on the reduction of employees in local self-government. Therefore, because of the public, I want to say, it is important that we know that these are not the laws of the Ministry's work; we have worked together at the government level and we are all behind these laws, and the Deputy Prime Minister, as the highest among us who have done this, is the one who explains these laws here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29339	National MP Judita Popovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29340	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, I am reporting within the meaning of Article 31. The Rules of Procedure, because I propose that the work in this assembly be done effectively and constructively, because if any critical remarks by any MPs are given such extensive political speeches, this debate may lose its purpose. Given that, as vice-president of the assembly, I have the right to assist in the work of the speaker of the assembly, or chair, I propose that we go to a constructive and effective discussion, without unnecessary political speeches by ministers. Ministers, normally, according to the Rules of Procedure, can answer questions, but can also wait for some order, in the sense that they listen to several speakers and then give one indicative answer afterwards. For this reason, I propose that we really go into serious work without undue political delay in the whole process of discussing these three laws that are on the agenda under emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29341	People's MPs, I direct you to read the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the provisions concerning the course of the session, and I remind you that the right to the word per article 100 is the right to be exercised because there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I warn you not to violate the rules of the Rules of Procedure, because every chairman, me or anyone else, points to a statement. The Prime Minister, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the right to report whenever he wishes, and gets the word, in this part of the session; when the session ends in principle, and then they have the right to speak to all those who did not exercise their right under Article 93, and the government's authorised representative, at the end of the debate in particular, also has a word on the Rules of Procedure. Next time, please don't abuse your right to a word based on article 100. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29342	Mrs. Komic, I would ask you to really take care of your own role in the work of the Assembly. We should have discussed this item on the agenda last Wednesday, so without any explanation it was cancelled, because the representatives of the government did not find it appropriate to appear in the O.R., and then came today and, yes, did not carry out any consultations that we needed in order for this debate to pass in the normal atmosphere. If we call so much to standards, tell me by what standard do we have to listen here to the tyrado of ministers for an hour and a half, without being able to in any way influence this debate and be exposed to it in the next few hours? So there's some elemental order. We agree that ministers answer questions, but we talk for 90 minutes and listen to quotes of promis, percentages and lists of employees in certain municipalities. We haven't started the debate yet, the heads of the parliamentary groups have not spoken, MPs have not spoken. At the end of this working day, we will face the paradox that the ministers spoke more than all the other MPs have said together. Let's understand that this is our common need. It is impossible to follow such a debate in a serious way, or we should go out and in such a way send a message to society as important to us, in fact, this point of the agenda and how much we really care about solving the fundamental problems of the country. That's all it's about. We don't want to take a nap here like some other MPs. We're trying to keep basic professional and business minds, and we can't do that without your help. No one takes away the right of ministers to speak. Turn their attention that it was 90 minutes before the debate started, and because one minister spoke 45 minutes, and the other one spoke 25, the third one left the session and left, and we needed him, while the finance minister, who was to enforce this law, didn't come.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29343	Two minutes. People's MP, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure and I ask you not to abuse your right to a word based on article 100. I can't help anyone who wants to break the Rules of Procedure. It is a request that, in the proposal and the words, was received by the MP Judita Popovic, and you are now. So, you want, by creative interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, ministers and government representatives to be limited in time. The moment it's in the Rules of Procedure, I'll be happy to do it, and now I can't. The reasons for maintaining or not maintaining consultations, if there are, if the president of the parliamentary groups reach agreement on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, then I will seek word on the basis of Article 100 and ask to speak of breach of the Rules of Procedure, because no assembly in this assembly can negotiate the rules. Other issues that you have raised, too, are not the subject of breach of the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to stick to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in any case, and then when we think it is effective, and when we think it is not. Do the mandated representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, want the word? I remind you that the order is from the smallest to the largest parliamentary group, i.e. the word will be given to the president or the authorised representatives, if they are in the room if they want a word. Currently, MPs Balint Pastor, Cedomir Jovanovic, Vlajko Senic, Jorgvanka Tabaković and Dragan Todorovic are reported in the electronic system. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29344	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, at the beginning of today's work day we had three members of the government here, and he remained only the most persistent, that is Mr. Milan Markovic. I hope the other ministers will find it appropriate to return to the National Assembly Hall to listen to the MPs and the opinion of the parliamentary groups on the proposed, important, laws. I would take advantage of the opportunity and the possibility to, above all, talk about the bill to determine the maximum number of employees in the local administration. For the SVM and the Parliamentary Group of Minorities, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants is not at all controversial and we will vote in favour of this proposal. It is not too controversial to propose a bill to determine the maximum number of employees in the republican administration, but it is, in some ways, a controversial proposal for a law establishing the maximum number of employees in local self-government. Since the bill is controversial for us, we have proposed one amendment. The amendment was not exclusively proposed by SVM MPs, but also by the People's MPs of the European Sandzak List and the People's MP of the Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley, so MPs belonging to the Group of Minorities are signatories of this amendment. I will certainly use the opportunity to talk about the proposed amendment, so that the representatives of the Government will be informed of it in time and that they will have time to consider the fullness of accepting this amendment by the Group of Minority MPs. We believe that this amendment is necessary to accept because, unfortunately, the government did not take into account the fact that in a certain number of local self-government units, there are several languages. That multilingualism should be considered. It is not enough to say that national minorities are equal, that national minorities are bridges of co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and other European states, but that these national communities should be truly equal. When we talk about equality, then, when we are talking about this legal matter, consider that, if there is only a Serbian language in a local self-government unit, it is one situation, and when there is another language of a national minority, or languages of a national minority, in addition to the Serbian language, it is a completely different situation, for the simple reason to provide an appropriate number of local self-government executives, who know the language of a certain national minority whose language is in official use and who is equal in the territory of a local self-government unit with a Serbian language. I would remind you that, under the 2002 Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, on the territory of a unit of local self-government where traditionally members of national minorities, their language and letter may be in equal official use, and by the second member of this law, the unit of local self-government necessarily introduces the language and letter of the national minority if the percentage of members of that national minority in its territory reaches 15%, according to the results of the last census. This was a quote from the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. This law has been in force for seven years and should certainly respect these provisions of that law. Since the official use of the language of members of national minorities in the territory of units of local self-government implies, among other things, the use of the language of the national minority in the communication of public authorities and citizens, in issuing public documents, in keeping official records and personal data collections, as well as the acceptance of those documents in those languages as full-time, in managing administrative procedures, it is necessary that local self-government bodies, in institutions, as well as in companies and other forms of organisation whose only founder of the units of local self-government are employed persons who rule in the language that is in official use. This was a quote from the explanation of our amendment. So, in those units of local self-government, in addition to Serbian, in the official use of one or more languages of national minorities, members of national minorities can consume their laws guaranteed rights only on condition that the administration provides the necessary number of perpetrators with the knowledge of the language of national minorities that is in official use. You must know, Mr. Milan Markovic knows, I am convinced, but I hope Mr. Dinkic is also familiar with this fact, that in the Republic of Serbia there are dozens of local self-government units in which he is officially used, along with Serbian, some other language, or languages of national minorities. These local self-governments are not exclusively located in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, there are local self-governments in both eastern Serbia and southern Serbia, and in Sandzak, and in other areas of the Republic of Serbia. That question should certainly be considered. We have tabled one solution by amendment, and I would like to read that text, to make it quite clear what we are proposing. I was just explaining why we're proposing, and now I'm going to quote what we're proposing specifically. We suggest that, with the exception of Article 1(2) of this proposal, it means that, exclusively from the rule that 1,000 people can be employed by the local government, the total number of people employed indefinitely in the local administration in which one or more languages of national minorities are increased by 0.1 employees per thousand, i.e. 0,1 promila, for each language of the national minority that is in official use. I'll give you an example. For example, in the territory of the town of Subotica, it is officially used in addition to Serbian and Hungarian languages, and Croatian. So we need to provide perpetrators, employees who know Croatian, who can communicate with citizens and nationalities in the territory of the municipality, and there are other examples, throughout the Republic of Serbia. We feel that we have been extremely modest, that this proposal does not disturb the concept of the law. It is apparent that 0.1 prominence will not greatly increase the number of employees in local self-government, and on the other hand, it would allow citizens of members of national minorities to consume their rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters and other applicable laws of the Republic of Serbia. It is clear to us that the number of persons employed at the level of the Republic in the administration and at the level of local self-government should be reduced. That's not at all controversial. We know it's agreed with the IMF. I am sorry that Mr Dinkic is not present at the moment, because I would ask him if, at this time, the representatives of the government informed IMF that Serbia is obliged to provide the AP Vojvodina with at least 7% of the budget, since they forgot it a few months ago, when we had on the agenda a draft budget restructuring for 2008, and since it is not present, I can ask that question, but I do not believe I will get an answer. Unfortunately, it wasn't taken into account that several months ago the National Assembly passed the Law on the Communist Police, but we didn't think that this amendment should be proposed. We hope that other parliamentary groups have proposed an amendment that does not include members of the municipal police in the territory of cities. We have remained on this issue, on this issue, and I find it significant to point out once again that this amendment is not exclusively an amendment to the SVM, but also to all members of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities. I stress that because an article in the daily newspaper was published a few days ago, titled "The Hungarians tighten". That's not true, for two reasons. First, it is not the Hungarians who tighten, but it is the MPs of the Group of Minorities, so, Hungarians, Bosniaks and Albanians. On the other hand, more importantly, we do not strain here, we only require the Government of the Republic of Serbia to respect the Constitution of this country and to allow members of national minorities to use their languages in official use in those units of local self-government in which their language is in equal official use. Of course, I don't think the government was mean to this occasion. I think this is about simply forgetting, or not taking into account, a huge failure, that according to the latest census 18% of the population of the Republic of Serbia are declared as members of national minorities and that these national minorities have certain rights, including the right to use the language officially. When you have already established three exceptions to this rule - four employees per thousand, the minister also spoke of these exceptions, those are local self-governments up to 15,000 people, those local self-governments in which the participation of the republican transfer in the municipality's budget is less than 20% and those in which the number has to be reduced by more than 20% of the employees, we think that this fourth exception should be established – for those local self-governments in which there is another language in official use, other than the Serbian language. The draft law states that the procedure for determining the status of unscheduled employee will take into account the results of work and property. In any event, the results of the work should be taken into account, this should be the most important component in determining the status of the unscheduled employee. From a social point of view, it is not bad either, taking into account the property situation, but we also believe that the knowledge of the official language, or the official language, should be one of the components, or criteria when determining the status of unscheduled employed in local self-government. Speaking of the participation of members of national minorities in the administration, I have a question for Mr Milan Markovic not only for local self-government but also for the state administration. Why, Mr. Minister, does the 2006 government's conclusion not respect this conclusion, this is the conclusion of measures to increase the participation of members of national minorities in the authorities of the state administration? The government's conclusion is not a legal regulation, but it still obliges the government of the Republic of Serbia, when it has not already been put outside the legal force. I don't know what results you might be able to discuss, Mr. Minister, on this matter, according to this conclusion, that is. how and to what extent the participation of members of national minorities in the authorities of the state administration has been increased. I don't think there's any success in this matter, unfortunately, no success, no result, and we should think about this a little bit. The Group of Minority MPs will support the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Employees and the Proposal for a Law on the Determination of Maximum Number of Employees in the Republic Administration, but we will be able to support the bill on determining the maximum number of employees in the local administration only if our amendment is accepted. I can express my confidence that by accepting this amendment, it will be possible to achieve the goal that was set before the Government when you proposed this law for adoption. Finally, I would like to point out that we still believe that local self-governments should get their property back and have the right to their original incomes, because we consider the highest form of hypocrisy to leave this provision to local self-government that, if they do not want to fire employees in the administration, their salaries are financed from their own costs. From what cost can local self-government finance the salaries of its employees when Serbia is the only country in Europe in which local self-government, municipalities and cities have no property, and almost have no original income at all? We believe that this should change, not because it will be our precondition for EU membership, but because it would make life easier for local self-governments; they would be able to create new jobs, attract, above all, foreign investments, and work on it. There is still no Minister Dinkic, so I cannot ask him – when will we have in the assembly procedure a bill on public property? I've had a work version of this law since I was seven. Ten. In 2008. We still have no information whether the government wants to discuss the draft of this law in the near future, whether we in the Assembly will be able to discuss this bill, which is important both because of the situation and financial autonomy and local self-government and autonomous provinces within the Republic of Serbia. I hope that we will come to an understanding and that this amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29345	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29346	As for your amendment, I think it's very good. I'm going to propose to the government and my colleague Dinkic that we accept him. In units of local self-government in which the official language and language of minorities are to be constructed, corrective factors should be created and the number of employees should be increased, according to the number of languages in official use. As for the conclusion you were talking about, the employment process itself was arranged in a rather objective way. I have to admit openly, I don't know, I don't ask, I don't think it's polite or legal to ask people who work at the Ministry of Nationality. I might, perhaps, take a last name, and watch, so I can tell you what structure is, but generally, I don't think that that kind of record can be kept and that it would be contrary to keeping track of the nationality of minorities in the bodies of the state administration without the consent of the people who plead as members of the national minority. If you consider that there is a problem in achieving the rights of national minorities, we can access some data through the staff department, but there is definitely no such type of records and I object first to making a record on the national principle in the authorities of the state administration. You've referred a question to me, but the question isn't for the Minister of State. Employment is done by every body manager on its own, and another ministry is responsible for achieving the rights of national minorities, so this issue is not for me. As far as the public property law is concerned, you probably know that the Ministry of Finance is parent. It prepares it, and the last piece of information I have is that by the end of the year it will be in the government's procedure, and that's great news for local self-government units. Tomorrow begins the first Fair of Local Self-Government. We will try to make it a tradition and European point of meeting local self-government from the environment in the coming years. Tomorrow begins first, where for now we bring only our own. One of the panels that will hold the Ministry of Finance is dedicated to funding local self-government and property units of local self-government, which is one of the key issues of further development of our local self-government. I assume the call came to the parent board, and the chairman of the board, and you're welcome. I'd like to see you on those panels. I think there's going to be an interesting discussion at that fair.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29347	Right on line, MP Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29348	Mr. Minister Markovic, I thank you for your answers and for your support for our amendment. I hope it will be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As for the employment of members of national minorities, the situation is alarming about this issue. The members of the national minorities are almost no longer in the bodies of the republican administration, but we are not looking for anything else to respect the conclusion of measures to increase the participation of members of the national minorities in the authorities of the state administration. The conclusion was published in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia, number 40/2006. We ask either to respect this conclusion of the government in the way it was adopted, or to put this conclusion outside the legal force.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29349	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29350	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, is devastating that such an important topic is open in the wrong way and that we are going to miss the chance to do an important job together. I don't think it's pleasant for you either, Mrs. Comic, because of the fact that the man we've been listening to for 60 minutes now we can't see ahead of ourselves, so that this debate has to have the meaning of having a debate that decides, among other things, on such an important issue as the status issue and the number of members of the republican or local administration. What is important, Mr. Markovic, since you are the only representative of the government here, which has remained in the far-reaching opening remarks of you and Minister Dinkic, is the reason why our government has decided to start the process of rationalization at this very moment, because, compared to the goal you are setting before you and Parliament, we can discuss the efficiency of the funds that the country is moving towards. Is this rationalisation being carried out because it has been found that employees in the local and republican administration are the biggest economic problem of Serbia at the moment, so it must be resolved by an urgent procedure, or is this done because a vision of such savings must be created, and cut where it is easiest, and that is, in fact, in its own backyard? It is clear that you are doing this within the framework of the negotiations and the plans with which you are going to the IMF, and neither you nor Mr Dinkic mentioned the IMF. It would be good to know why we do not talk about the IMF in the Assembly, when we are already talking with the IMF about reforming the local and republican administration. The essence of your initiative is, in fact, the devastating fact that it will not change anything, and you know it very well. Finally, your amendments and additions to the law for us are unacceptable in that segment in which they were in the past. There is nothing in particular we can add, but there are too many problems in the laws that Mr Dinkic explained in Parliament, and then left, not only because there are other obligations, but also because it is the only way to avoid a serious debate and argument that leaves no room for dilemma. If we're already saving in the number of employees, then we need to see what business this country wants to deal with, what is the vision of those who run this country. When did the government decide which jobs Serbia, or Serbia, should deal with, and then, in accordance with its decision, adapt those who will do those jobs? Minister Obradovic left. We meet every day with incredible data that we have alleged surplus employees in education, perhaps by some rigid economic criteria. What about the other defeating data? To those who describe our knowledge as the most dysfunctional, those who describe our society as a society where 50% of the population is practically not written? When we talk about your reform, then we cannot bypass the fact that you are applying EU standards where it suits you and where you can use them as an excuse. It is completely pointless to give the citizens of Serbia the illusion that life in this country will be better, because the state will be more efficient and thriftier, by descending from 3.2 to 2.05, how much is the EU average that you chose, or, if we talk about the total number of employees in the local and republican administration, plus businesses, from 11.08 to 10.6, or five, as far as the EU is concerned. I think you understand how pointless that argument is. If we have to save, let's save where it can only be done. Why are public enterprises bypassed? You yourself said, in Serbia, 170,000 people were employed in public enterprises. Of the 590 public companies, 580 operate negatively, with losses. It's not just any public enterprise. It is the NIS, which is more, practically, and is not in our absolute possession, it is the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, it is the "Serbiagas". It's a company owned by this country, which owes 170m euros, but it found somewhere three million to buy Informatics, so we can't even get an answer to the question we're asking government members -- why was that done? It's that company that donates trumpets to Belgrade streets. It's the company where 40% of employees are fixed for management, so management and administration. Following the takeover of NIS, a Russian partner found that out of 12,000 employees 5,000 are engaged in non-productive business, are related to administration and management. He found that the current surplus, the one visible at first sight, was 25%. Can you tell us what savings are for the state if the laws you propose to the Assembly are applied? How much cheaper are we going to be in 2010? Everything that followed these laws, the law describes as an instrument that our country is trying to reduce public spending, in order to achieve some projected deficit that is acceptable to the IMF. We're not talking about this here today, because it's both for you and the IMF, and for every reasonable person in this country, it's clear that these are threes and a puppy and it's not about any savings, especially raising the efficiency of our administration. How did we conclude that the number of employees was the cause of ineffectiveness of the administration? Wherever we appear, we are facing orders, buried with counter-office officials, or inefficient administration, because it is technically not supported as it has to be. We have concluded that by reducing the number of people who are constantly employed, from 30,000 to 28,000, we will make the state administration more efficient and the state cheaper. That's not true. In the presentation of Mr Dinkic, this is the right to silence the administration and an unsustainable example of urbanism, i.e. spatial planning, as a space in which we stand out in corruption, so this problem will be solved by the administration being able to keep quiet about something. It's the cause of corruption. Imagine what Serbia's future would look like if, for example, the Department of Urbanism could be kept quiet, so, because he's silent, someone has the right to build a house or a six-story building, not from four, as planned by urban plans. We in the Secretariat need to hire people, because a year's license is waiting, because there's no capacity for that kind of work that these people are being exposed to. Why are we lying to each other? Maybe we should hire additional people in the state administration, not fire them, and fire them where they're inefficient, so we can look for new ones?- I'm sorry. I don't mean to caricate a employment policy now, which was spoken of by one of the representatives of the Board who took his opinion. How far can we get and how far will we get if we're always tightening the belt? What logic is that, and what is the philosophy of life that the government is now imposing on us? We apply those rules and those patterns and advices that suit us, and we ourselves know that the measures are inefficient, superficial, and no result will come from them. What will be the cost of severance for those 3,000 people you need to fire, and by what criteria? We all know how it ends in the end. I do not caricate the fact that your government is the most numerous in Europe, but the rules that apply at a republican level and which you offer as a logical explanation, while the fact that you have a cabinet larger than Chinese - are the rules that all those below you, in the province and in local self-government are called upon. Why do you think it's simpler, for example, to form a coalition in Cacca, Leskovac, which you mentioned, than a coalition in Belgrade? You're the Minister of State Administration, and you know how long in the meantime the municipality has gone to temporary measures, how many elections for local self-government are repeated. We've got, December 6th, Bones, and then we've got a Leader, third time, so we've got Negotin in front of us. The Archangel is heading that way. Look how much our country is in chaos. We also had Verbas last week, and we say, it's like this up the sea, and down there it can't, it takes a lot more order. Unfortunately, you do not offer this order here and avoid Parliament as an address at which we must agree. No reform of the state has succeeded by enforcing a government that was absolutely opposed by the opposition. Are there points we can agree on? Yeah, and we want a cheap and efficient state. The price of that country cannot be determined by arbitrary, campaign, ad hoc. Perhaps that price is higher than the price we pay today, and did we ask society – what is more expensive for society? It is an inefficient and incompetent state, which spends less than what would be spent efficiently and capable. The government campaigned against Parliament for a year, and now runs a campaign against civil servants. It's unacceptable and it's wrong. No such state will get anywhere. It is not true that these 30,000 employees are the country's economic problems. There is a much bigger problem with these 170,000 public enterprises, which are not being touched, in boards that are not responsible for the damage they are producing. According to the Business Society Act, each member of the Management Board shall cover with his own assets the damage that has occurred if the wrong business policy is conducted. Of the 590 public enterprises, 580 operate negatively, and many of them contrary to the law. When will the order be introduced? The director of the railroad is in jail, and the board of directors? What was the board of directors doing besides getting paid? JAT's down, what was the Management Board doing, and what business policy was he running? The electricity industry also, on the one hand, tells us, like, it's an economic price below which they can't go, but, on the other hand, they respect the government's advice, because it's not convenient to do business in accordance with economic logic right now, but we need to melt like the '90s. What's the price of it tomorrow? Let's get back to these specific laws. Mr. Markovic, we're asking you to return the internal competition. We're asking you to return the internal competition, so that within the administration, it doesn't work out like a flea market. If this methodology was not effective, make it more efficient, but leave it to people to believe that it is possible in the state administration of the Republic of Serbia to get a job by reporting to the competition, promoting themselves and meeting understanding and support. We agree that it is unacceptable to waste all this time of 90 days on average and the devastating fact that 50% of the place is not filled, but not because the model was wrong, Mr. Minister, but because this model was a front for party outwitting and we know it all very well. That's why we're asking you to return the internal competition, leave the possibility for some young man to knock on your door tomorrow and say, "I speak languages, I'm ready to work, this is my average at the university, and I want to get a better job." Since there is no Minister Dinkic, then I will address you, although I doubt you can answer that question. What is the criterion of property status in selecting those who will remain in the local and republican administration? Then who's gonna stay here and work? You can't run social policy like that. It turns into the charity of the state, which previously destroyed itself and those for which it exists. Only efficiency at work can be a criterion for defining those needed in the future in local self-government and the republican administration. Property cannot be the basis for such a thing. This can be resolved by other laws, in other procedures, in other places. Imagine that in this way you disqualify someone who is persistent, who is worthy and who created something in his life. What kind of message are we sending to our society? Where did we face those principles? The state's social policy can't turn into charity. The state has to create a chance for people to qualify for a normal life, and that doesn't seem like this law. The big problem with the law is Article 10. Those local self-governments that have less than four employees per thousand will remain at that level and will not be able to further employ until 2011, and then the government will decide who can and can't. Then what are these criteria? Maybe those municipalities have some plans in the future? What is this criterion for the city of Belgrade? How can this city function normally when institutions are not reformed in it? The law on spatial planning and construction, mentioned by Minister Dinkic, has been changed 14 times during a public debate. We still don't have a rule on the application of that law in Belgrade. The whole city stands, suffers economic damage because of it, and does not realise the revenues it would be entitled to and would achieve. Those who have cheated and invested in Belgrade, today do not know what they will do, are obliged to banks and cannot do their jobs. We have a Secretariat that hasn't transformed since it exists, and now we're bringing criteria that won't be possible to hire someone new there, it won't be possible to open another department. It's a paradox and it's wrong. We should be developing the City. We Belgrade see as an example of what Serbia is supposed to be tomorrow, and he's all but that's not it. A bad example was chosen by Minister Dinkic. If we're talking about the IMF, and I think we should talk about it, then we're also talking about the wrong way to meet the criteria that the IMF imposes on us, not because it's his whim, but because it's the only way to secure its resources. We cannot spend indefinitely what we do not create, and in this consumption at least local self-government, or republican administration, is expressed through the number of employees. Finally, it will essentially not change; you will be able, calling on the right, to employ 10% of those on the contract or other basis, to keep all the people you need, or to bring in some new ones, but it will be more or less the same budget cost. We have a problem with the fact that 15% of the budget, 15% of the widget goes as a pension fund subsidy. When you look at the structure of that pension fund, 500 thousand pensioners – 13,000 dinars of pension. It can't go down anymore, but it can't be taken anymore, it's empty on the other side. Exports cover 20% of the U.S.jidips. Such a country can no longer exist and we need to change it, look each other in the eye and tell the truth, to ourselves first, and then try to convince society that we're not doing it to lick each other's wounds, but because we're ready to do something. That's not gonna happen. This law will compromise, first, the government, and that is bad, and then us, because together we will be responsible for the inefficient state and the inability to solve the problem. The state must not give in to the language of demagogy and populism, which is so expressed and present in the performances of those who speak for it. When we determine what our country's goal is, what is the obligation of its administration, what is the obligation of those who are employed in education? What is the obligation of those who care about the security of this country? Our MP was attacked last week and beaten up on the street in Belgrade, our MP was attacked two days after that. How do you think an ordinary man feels? The cops that are moving around this building have a salary of 30,000 dinars. Are we going to solve these problems by reducing their numbers to raise the salary, or are we going to look at each other, and say, that, in China, the train goes 500 km per hour, but it's the result of a different mentality, a changed character of one society, so that we start doing it here in Serbia?- I'm sorry. We have a serious problem with your initiative. We want a cheap and efficient state, but we don't want to derail the state. In the negotiations we held, each in its own way, with the European Union years ago, in meetings with representatives of the countries of the former Yugoslav republics, Croatia, Slovenia, Macedonia, Montenegro, you know very well in the government, one of Serbia's greatest advantages was its state and civil apparatus, the largest. Why are we putting ourselves on the side where there is no real responsibility? This system has been developed and nurtured for 50 years. How long does it take for one clerk to become operational, efficient and capable? We twisted the reform and turned it into a mockery. So I have a great understanding for people who have worked and are doing a very important job in this country today under incredibly difficult circumstances, for which they are least guilty. There's a reference here to guillotine regulations, but we've been listening to those stories for years. It wasn't implemented. The laws are changed without having previously entered into force. That's the least these people are responsible for. Finally, they are now cited as the sole culprits of the economic problems the country is in, and we say the problems are on the other side. Public enterprises are completely surrounded by this law. For what? If we had introduced order here, it would have been different if we had respected the Law on Public Procurement, to implement the principle of separation and depolitisation, to develop managerial mentality there. (President: National MP, 20 minutes, time at your disposal has been used. I'll be done in 30 seconds. I'm sorry, but despite our desire to help the country through supporting a government that wants to change its found, unsustainable state, we don't see room for support at this point, given that these laws are superficial and are, in fact, a front for the government's inability to face those reforms and problems that are obvious in this country and that we all know very well, and before all of us, of course, government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29351	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, given that the three draft laws are on the agenda and that all three are, in a way, directed, namely to dominate the subject of a reduction in the number of employees, I would say something in general about this subject, and then a few concrete issues in relation to the proposed law. I think there is almost general agreement that we have an irrational and dysfunctional state apparatus, from central government, state administration, to local self-government; it is expensive, does not meet the needs of citizens, businesses, there are a number of regulations, procedures, which collect work, waste time, open up the possibility of breaking regulations, etc. All this leads to the weakening of citizens' trust in state institutions, their impartiality, their justice, to the purpose of existence. So if we have all this in mind, it's obviously a problem, and if so, then we have to face it and look for a solution to how to solve it. The government has shown its determination to face this problem, and that's good. Of course, and it is not necessary to run away from that recognition, the economic crisis and the budget deficit as a result of the economic crisis must have affected and accelerated it, nothing is disputed, but the government, with the determination to face this problem, has, at the same time, taken responsibility for the whole business of public administration reform to end, and this is just one part of the overall public administration reform. Somehow, the state administration is always in the first place, and usually the first thing is to bid how many employees there are, for which they will shrink and so on. We're against it and we find it wrong. I'm joining the discussion of some colleagues not to allow the state administration, the official system to be on the defendant's bench. He needs to be functional, efficient, rational, and that's something we need to strive for. Anything, going towards it, we come across as an obstacle, we have to remove it. This number of maximable employees we view only as a consequence of this government's way and orientation. Otherwise, we know what the number of employees is, we don't need to run from it, all the parties in power have contributed to the increase in that number in recent years. It's hard to rule out any, but now it's an opportunity, which was found before this government, to stop this process once, and that's the greatest, in fact, value of this law, and the worst part is that it will result in the dismissal of a number of workers. In this context, we view these laws as only one in a series of matters of comprehensive public administration reform. As far as I know, there is a Council for State Administration Reform, or a public administration, headed by the Prime Minister, as one in a number of jobs, one in a number of savings, because there are more in many places. Of course, all of this is based on one analysis of the organisation of the state administration, from ministries to all agencies, special organisations, directorates, etc., assessment of the justification of the existence of all these institutions, because they produced this number of employees, and with the aim of reaching less dissociative, better placed, efficient and cheap organisations. So in this context, we also observe the amendments to these laws that are before us. This number, which needs to be reduced by the state administration, we consider only the necessary consequence, not the naked layoff of workers, against which we would be. When it comes to the law on determining the maximum number of employees in the state administration, I just want to say a few things. By the way, and when I make some observations about the law on maximising the number of employees in the local self-government, at the same time, Mr. Minister, I will keep myself on the amendments to the Law on civil servants, but as much as it does in this area, and you yourself have said in your presentation that the amendments to the Law involve some solutions that will go parallel to these two laws, starting with the possibility of taking over workers, therefore, extra employees, then, through a new way of grading, by having one question for you, Mr. Minister, starting from the fact that I believe that this government wants to do this job in a serious and responsible manner and that nothing is unclear. So I will ask my government a dozen questions, in order to give the public an opportunity to clarify each of these issues to the end. When it comes to quarterly evaluation – what happens to Article 83, which remains valid and talks about an evaluation once a year in February? It is necessary for citizens to make this clear to the end. Then, when it comes to grading, I ask you to keep in mind the following – the evaluation is one of the criteria for solving the problem of extra employees. It has to be reliable, fair, fair, unpolitical, or whatever you want. You're obliged to explain to me your finding on the Civil Service Act that the evaluation didn't yield any good results. Then how can we rely on such a thing without providing protection? So we're not questioning the evaluation, but we're very questioning it if we go ahead from not giving good results, that it's not going to be reliable, fair, fair, non-political, professional, whatever you want. When it comes to maximising the number of employees in the state administration, the highest value of this law is that it determines the maximum number, for two reasons. Of course, I assume you've reached the maximum number, but you haven't come from it, that you've reached the number that's exceeded, and you haven't come from it. I believe that's how the government did it. Why is it important to determine the maximum number? One reason. In your explanation, you said the surplus is 2.224, plus 560, approximately, people. Of course, it can't be good if people are fired, but it can be if it's an emergency, if it's going to be an incentive for a new job elsewhere, if these savings are going to be invested in economic incentives, so that other jobs can be opened, etc., that I don't owe it. Maximizing the number of employees, Mr. Minister, or, anyway, who will respond, had no basis for the number of systematic jobs, but for the number found, so to speak, workers. Why do I mention this? So the number of 2.224 and 560 is much larger when it comes to maximizing. The state administration itself, which is covered by this law, without funds, etc., has a systematicized 24.244 seats, and 22 thousand present and something. For example, in the Ministry of Education, 500 has been systemized, currently 380. So the 380 will apply that criterion. Why am I saying this? It is good that more systematicised places will be applied than the number of employees. So less will be fired, but the number will be far less than this number. That's what you need to say clearly. Secondly, what is important when it comes to maximising the number of employees, is that it will condition that eyes are opened well when new bodies, new agencies, new organisations, new directorates etc. are formed. Form them all you want, but that's the maximum. It would have been even better if it had been done before. Then we would think very carefully about any law that produces the formation of an agency, some organization, etc., whether it should be so. I see here the greatest value of this law, therefore, in maximizing that number. I repeat, I want to believe you came to that number without coming from him. I'm asking, is it convenient to determine 10% of the employees at a certain time, even if they are aware that they do not refer to trainees and the replacements of absent workers? I'm asking if that's convenient, was that supposed to be more restrictive? Then, a few more specific questions. The bill obliges the Ministry to bring systematicisation by 31 December. It precedes the government's decision on organ numbers. When does the government commit itself to bringing it? I guess, before the systemization. It was the turn to say – the government will determine the maximum number of employees in the administration bodies immediately after the law was passed within 15 days. Then we'd be clear. Second question. The funds will be paid according to the maximum number of employees. The deadline for determining is the end of the year. The budget's being delivered early. How will this show up in the budget? These are all issues that the government must very clearly explain to the citizens of Serbia, to be clear about. When it comes to reduction, there are three criteria here. I very much support the first criterion, which is the general necessity of this job, given the needs of citizens and businesses. It's on the trail of our position that we need a functional, efficient, rational, cheap administration, which will be in the interest of citizens and businesses. That's not controversial. The other criteria are the results of the work. He's not at all controversial and he has to be priority over the following criteria, if we want to have a quality administration. What am I warning you, what can be controversial? This job has to be done with great responsibility. It must not be evaluated in any way abused, conditionally speaking, for this job that is coming to us. After all, the question is whether it was supposed to be in this law at all, if there are constant grades, so as soon as it gets the grade "not satisfactory", it goes to juvie and ends its working relationship. This is what I'm warning you for the simple reason that he's not wearing any protection on this basis. Don't abuse it. The second part is when the systematization is established, so people become technologically excess. Of course, they have the right to severance, to part of the labour market, etc., to no longer owe it. With the support of this law being agreed with the union, because I believe that all serious and important issues in the state must be the result of the government's social dialogue, employers and trade unions, and that it cannot succeed if something is at the expense of something, I once again point out to my government that, until the final decision on this law, continue this process of social dialogue with the trade unions. Why do I say that? The third criterion, introduced, is property and is completely unclear. Whose property, individual, family? Therefore, there are solutions given in the Labour Act, the Law on Civil Servants and in a special collective contract signed by the State with the unions of state administration, where protection of certain categories of persons is sought. Just to list some of the special collective contract: pregnant women, maternity leave time, leave for child care, leave for child care, leave for special care of children, disabled persons, etc. I warn you, these criteria must be taken into account, but after the criteria – the results of the work. For such an area, for a system like this, they must be considered first. If the same results are the same, then these criteria must be applied. I don't understand why in this law, and it's not in the law to max out the number of employees in the local administration, the state administration is exempt from Article 182. The labour law, which says that where the surplus is established, has no right to work within six months. Let's just say it wasn't done in the local administration law. Why would he have the right to hire if he found it to be an extra job? Since time is running out, very briefly, over the law on local administration, which my colleagues will discuss in more detail, I just want a few specific questions. The basis for the application of the law is the number of inhabitants. The list was made in 2002, seven years ago. So there is a very high probability of major changes in that period. Did the government think about any other options, how to make it the most fair, fairest, because everything is determined on the basis of that number? The second question - do the maximum number enter and employees of the municipal inspection, the municipal police, because we imposed all our praises a few months ago, if I'm not mistaken, on five thousand goes one? These are all questions that need to be made clear to the end. Once the circumstances have been clarified, then the public will support such measures that the government is taking.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29353	The word is Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29354	In a set of these three laws, which should regulate the way of saving in the pre-immended budget spending of money on wages, it is in fact all the surface and selfishness of those who run the government on our behalf. Why do I say "surface" and why do I say "selfish"? The surface has been shown, above all, that no moment has come from the real reserves that exist in the tax policy and in what is some basic task of the government, which is that it controls the money it has over it, that it controls the spilling of that money from those who create it to those who have not earned it, because these streaming paths are not inconceivable. This government doesn't enforce money control laws, which it's responsible for. This government does not benefit from the powers of the Budgetary System Act, under which public funds must be under its control, because it is not enough to just be covered by the budget, as it is announced to us, in order to have insight over it. The government of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to use, for all those who are illegally spending money, or without its insight, the powers conferred on it, even a series of laws, for example, on public agencies, where it is required that through appointed management bodies, through the granting of consent to work plans and financial plans and the distribution of the benefits of these organisations, it has direct control over them. It is also required to control the funds by giving consent to tariffs that these organisations, for example, charge. Hundreds of million euros are in the billions and three hundred million euros this government does not control. To repeat, to remember, it is not necessary to change the laws to control that money, but to exercise the control that is laid down by law, so it is institutional. Respected citizens of Serbia, this does not mean that the control of this money -- about a billion and three hundred million, does not exist; there is, but it is party, interparty, intrapartisan and, as such, motivated by the personal interests rather than the general and the people, which are being talked about here today. That's what the government didn't use, but it selfishly and superficially decided to make budget savings a way to limit the maximum number of employees to 28,400. How did she do that? The passing of an act called the law, which is very superficial, leaves much to be regulated by sublaws, and it is not the law in the right sense of words, and it could have done so by one regulation, because it has proved to us that it is its usual practice. Mr Dinkic, who has explained the law here, has been regulating subsidies for several years, and has not done it here, although we have been criticising it for three years, by applying the subsidy law, at least as one framework law, to know the criteria for who can and how, because I want to share the money, and he has come to share with us responsibility for the release of people. It's not fair and it's not moral behavior. Mr Dinkic explained here for 45 minutes the effects of cutting the rules and how much less funds will be transferred to local self-government if they do not respect this act. Have either of you ever heard of the allocation of these subsidies and the allocation of money, which are the effects of the money allocated to the budget, on employment and on the economy of Serbia? No one has ever heard the effects of that, even now, when we passed the Budgetary System Act, where the government must get from the Ministry, with the bill, and the assessment of the financial effects on the budget. When, by amendment, as a SNS, we asked that this obligation, subsequently, also goes to the National Assembly, it means that the Ministry, through the Government, delivers the financial effects of the application of the law to us, it is said – it is understood, and it is not yet available. Some moan that the finance minister cannot from the economy and regional development minister to receive a report on the financial effects of such subsidies. Well, what you do to others, expect them to do to you tomorrow. The moment you don't report to the Assembly on the impact assessment of a legal project, it's normal for your colleagues to do the same, but it's not normal for you to tell us today 45 minutes about the effects of hiring the people you brought in and on the savings that, by firing those people, will be achieved in the budget. Please remember what kind of double archaic and immoral behavior is in this home. We have submitted a large number of amendments to this law. The basic remarks are that there are no criteria why 28,400 is that maximum number. There is no basic data and defined term – what is a republican administration. That's what I'm going to convince you of. You have defined the concept of what the authorities of the administration are, what the agencies are, as far as the Labour Act is concerned, and by amendment we have requested that, in addition to this regulation, the list of public agencies to which this law applies. I responsibly claim to the Serbian public that you do not have such a record. At the moment when NAED made a list of the extra regulations that the U.S. Department has taken over, it turns out, I quote Mrs. Andreja Marusic, who is the head of that unit, 'that there are rules and records of all the regulations applicable in this country, but that the state does not have such a record'. Some private people, I suppose, have "Paraft Lex" or something, but the state didn't have such a record of the rules by recognition of the government official, who had previously been to the Agency for Economic Registers, and now he's the chairman of the Management Board of the Agency for Business Registers, which is not that it has anything to do with the entities we're talking about and the regulations that apply to them. What are you offering us now? Internet presentation of the number of employees. People, give us a record of the space you have or which is based on the Republic of Serbia, give us a record of the debts, the withdrawing, the unrestricted and those waiting for ratification, give us the prices of these debts, give us the records of the organizations that are attached to our budget, which now require the release of three or four thousand people, as if it were three or four thousand unnamed things, and not quite concrete people, with families, personal problems and the desire to continue life without being evaluated by a unit and excessive. You don't have a record, because if you did, you would have delivered it. The proof that you do not have it is the answer to my parliamentary question asked in April, which I received only part of the answer from the Ministry of Finance and those authorities. Some have disobeyed, some have felt that the state should only establish them, give them the right to do some monopoly work, but just work that the state, the Assembly and citizens should have insight into what they are earning. One of the fundamental disadvantages of this law is that you have also decided not to repeat the mistakes made by Mr Dinkic with layoffs from the Administration of Revenue a few years ago, so that people don't go back to work in court, so here you have abolished the right to appeal to the one to whom, based on your evaluation, you bring the solution that you should go home. The basic legal uncertainty of two stages in the legal procedure, when it comes to people you hired, should not at all be in the law that there is, but Article 12 says that after six months, you can receive other people in those same places. So, you need your people, who you brought yesterday, to replace some new people of yours, and that you don't have a court over your head, or the cost of any court proceedings, and you're counting on citizens, to some new choices, to forget and listen to those arguments that are supposed to make it easier for people now, to finish their work in a peorative sense, representing this law of yours as a reduction in bureaucracy. Not that it's wrong, but I think the assessment of your actions should go much faster than the penalty in the election. Now the question is, how did you get to these 28,400? I'm someone who does this job very seriously and responsibly and I've only brought out the four last budgets that I have, budgets like the spending plans that you've been delivering to us here. I can't talk about the budget reports for these last two years, although materials have been delivered, because the look of the number of those you have here as a employment plan or as employees, I can't say for sure, because it doesn't say that. The report on people who work, meaning what they are really busy, or what the employment plan is realized, is not in the Final Account Act, so it's a little funny that Mr. Cvetkovic's observation since Thursday, when we had the thematic session, when he said, yes, you gave me a good idea for the budgets to be comparable to each other, so I'm going to deliver you one from 1989, so 1999, and then in 2009. Give you comparable figures for the budget over the last three years, to this you are bound by the Budgetary System Act, and not by the proposal, for example, for 2007, you say there are 22,528 civil servants and deputies. When did that come to 30,000? Or is it another methodological or accounting trick? On the other hand, some aggregated data, which you equally call civil servants and authorities, has a number for 2007, with the judiciary and this figure that I listed, 259,759 people. This is your paperwork. These are budget proposals for 2007, 2008 and 2009. It's an interesting piece of information from back in the "golden rain," when the elections were being prepared, and it was a lot of money from privatisation, so then, on page 91, 92, 93, 94, we got an explanation for how we're going to increase the number of employees by 1.517 people. This is on page 94, and it is said – an increase in the number of civil servants and deputies is proposed by 1.517, and the reasons for this are: The General Secretariat of the Government, for example, must increase the number of employees due to increased size and increase in the number of ministries, as well as the formation of new organisational units for the need to develop new development projects, co-ordination with foreign countries, etc. Lastly, at the time, you had only 26 unscheduled persons and 110 elected persons, and you are now mentioning them as part of the funds you plan to pay in the 2007 budget, where you say there are 258,332 civil servants and tenants. You have not defined the concept of what the Republic administration is, what the authorities of the administration are, what public agencies are, and, most importantly, the story of somewhere the Labour Act defines the rights of these people, and somewhere the Law on civil servants, is again a matter of selective application. How? In the Law on Public Agencys, you say, in Article 7, that the rights, obligations, liability and earnings of the directors and employees of the public agency are subject to general labour regulations, if this or a special law is not otherwise laid down. What does it decide if some lex specialis is going to undo this? To repeat the story of political, interpartial, intrapartial control, funds or wages, but not legal and institutional control, because these authorities, the largest number of them, the Government's recommendation to cut salaries due to the financial crisis has not been applied; he continued to pay high wages, because Article 7 is treated as appropriate to them, and now you want to apply this law as a lex specialis, where it suits you. The response measure is party interest, short-term, no time is public savings or savings in public expenditures. When you have control over what is public income, I can accept that you want to have control over public expenditures. Why don't I believe you? It's not some relationship of emotion to you, because this has already been seen. You adopted a regulation on the principles for the internal organisation and systematization of jobs in the ministries on 6 May 2005. When Mr Dinkic says that no one has ever offered to save him, he should remember the words – the executioner has no right to remember, the victim and only the victim has the right to remember. Those who were fired by applying this Regulation in 2005, directed by Mr Dinkic, have the right to remember, and I will remind him. A regulation was adopted aimed at streamlining the state administration by about 10%, no later than 1 June 2005. The Minister of Finance, present today, Mr Dinkic, explained on June 4th that it was workers who received units on professional and psychological tests, where employees were tested for amoral tendencies, crime and corruption. It's not enough that the percentage of tax revenues and now 50%, that the official authorities of the state come out with data on how much tax evasion is and what everything can't be put into legal flows, but even people are accusing themselves of proving on a psychological test a tendency to amorality. Are you now preparing and leaving the deadline of December 31st, where you have provided for a sentence unless there is a systematization, not if you receive or maintain extra employees? What happened? Employees who were fired under the regulation, with such a test, even insistence, in the court-led disputes, could not get an insight into the test so much has been discussed. Many of them have launched and received labour disputes, so the illegal dismissal of workers in the Tax Administration cost Serbia over 200m dinars. Will anyone ever be responsible for the damage that was done and paid at the time, the damage you have now tried to avoid such solutions where there is no right... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... to appeal, or to a court dispute. This law is a disgrace to the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29355	Thank you. Mr. Vlajko Senic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29356	Honored presidents, respected members of the government, respected fellow MPs, difficult words for a law that basically deals with the regulation of employees in the republican administration. First of all, I'm going to talk about this law dealing with the central state administration. The G17 Group of MPs will support this bill. I will say something first about the fundamental elements of the law, although it is said by both ministers and by some MPs, then the reasons for its adoption. In a way, I will briefly try to share with you some of the world's experiences that exist in this area, as well as the aim of the law as seen by the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group. I think we should say that we cannot expect great results if many, and some of those who will vote for this law in advance, wash their hands of it, and we all expect that the criteria adopted by voting for this law may not be respected in the right way, that there will be certain protections, protection by personal or party belongings, etc., that is, if in this way and with this assurance we go to the vote and implementation of this law, I am sure that the results will be much lower than realistically expected at this point. For this reason, I believe that all those who support this law should vote for it with a firm belief that what it says is a commitment for the people who are going to implement it, that there is no predetermined doubt that we will pass the law and that in its implementation we will try to bend its provisions, which are largely clear. As for the number of employees in the state administration, that's 28,400 and that's an important thing. For the first time, quantitatively, Serbian citizens know how many people can work most in the central state administration. It's not an obligation for so many people to work, it's a maximum number that, after the adoption of this law, can be employed in a central administration, and it's a 7.26% reduction, which is not a small one and at this point is probably the fact that, as we're often said in public, we've chosen a number that's lower than what would be economically justified. I am sure that the number of people who today are surplus in the state administration would be higher than those 7% of the staff, or about 16% of the people working under the contract of work or on temporary and occasional jobs. We also introduce a restriction for people who are employed at a certain time – 10% of the total number of permanent employees. That's good, because, on the one hand, people who run the executive power will make it impossible for us to have a fictitiously small number of employees, and through temporary and occasional jobs a large number of other associates, and, on the other hand, to limit people who work in the executive government, because in the past it has proved that often people who are useful and high-quality and have no ambition to spend their whole lives in the state administration have been engaged in this way. It is also good that there are short deadlines to bring systematicisations and that there are sanctions that will force all members of the executive authority to carry out the job within the deadline set, by the end of this year. We must honestly say that this reform came at a time when, as a ruling coalition, we may be more forced to implement it than we have come to the conclusion that it is necessary, but it represents a need. It is an expression of mistakes that we have all made in the last eight or nine years, but also of our willingness to admit mistakes and to start reforming the sector that is very important and that I am sure it will deliver much better results in the next period. By doing so, we expect the resistance to these reforms to be stronger than some cosmetic changes. When I talk about the reasons for the law, I'd say there are quantitative and qualitative reasons. Unfortunately, in the discussion, we were more aware of how many people are working today, how much they will lose their jobs, and less talk about the quality of the work of the state administration. Suddenly, even MPs of opposition parties, who are represented as parties that are reform-defined, defend the state administration, as if it were some legacy that is best possible, inherited from a system that has, as it were, lasted 50 years, or 10 years, until 2000. There must be people there who do their job well and certainly deserve to stay where they are. I'm sure they too will be in the interest of introducing clear criteria that will allow people who do their job well to get a certain satisfaction, and people who don't do their job well don't get satisfaction and, at the very least, lose their jobs. I think this is the idea of a government's definition that we're not going to raise our value added tax. I will remind you that we insisted at the beginning of this year and at the end of last year that there could be no increase in value added tax as a solution to the reduction, i.e. the problems in our budget. Turns out it's possible. Even in negotiations with the IMF, we have been indirectly suggested that this is a easier solution to overcome our short-term problems. We kept insisting on going on a spending-side reduction. The law is the first step towards reforming the state administration, by reducing costs on the contrary. We received a recommendation from the IMF and on increasing the age limit for women. We have also insisted that this area, contrary to their recommendations, remain as well as before, but we need to find some other sources of savings and this is certainly one of those sources. The reasons remain for continuing reform in the public sector, and this is a small step that shows only the government's determination to go towards reducing public spending. We expect much more difficult tasks, much more intense discussions and much bigger problems, which will concern the upcoming reform of the pension system and all those systems that cannot be economically maintained in the way they operate today. I believe that this is where we should conduct an honest and open debate, whether we are in power or in opposition, because it is about the long-term sustainability of our country's public finances. It is certain that certain political compromises, which were necessary in the past, are now coming toll. For this reason, we all need to make an effort together to pass laws that will best enable this country to operate in a fiscal system in a sustainable sense of the word. As for the fact that this is just a case in Serbia, it is not true. Public administration reform is a problem today throughout the world. I'll give you an example of France, which is our close country. The reforms imposed by the new president, the huge resistance the administration has given there, too, to such reforms... It wouldn't be a bad idea to bring in some water for the MPs as well. The fact is that today the public administration in the world is facing the problem of the growing age structures of people who work in public administration and that there are more and more people who have been passing for 50 years. It is a problem that is related to the fact that the attractiveness of state business in Serbia and in the world is much less than working in a private, profitable company. It was a case of Serbia. We had a large number of young people who worked in the state administration after 2000, but, after the arrival of large international companies, they found much better conditions there and left the state administration. (The speaker's got water. Thank you. We need to think not only about who works in Serbia's state administration today, but whether a young and educated man, who finishes college, as is said here, speaks several languages, has the motivation to come to work today in Serbia's state administration, if he is offered several times less than is possible for his qualifications elsewhere. So our goal is to reduce the state administration in the short term, but in the medium term, and increase, or improve the conditions for people who work today and who will work in the future in the state administration. We, as a party, will advocate that it be a set of people who work in quality, professionally and who are well paid for the job. Today we cannot talk about it because it is a crisis, but it is certainly a topic that will be opened in the future. Our advantage is that other, smaller countries, such as Denmark, Finland, Scotland, Wales, have implemented good public sector reform. In practice, it has proved that much easier to reform fewer countries than it is with large countries. In the end, I'm going to say that the purpose of this law is a new public management. This is one trend that has existed in the world since the 1980s in the Anglo-Saxon countries, when state governance has joined not as a burden to burden taxpayers and to bring only damage, to produce costs, but to be seen as a resource that can advance a country. I am sure that in this way we will set things up in Serbia, that in the next period we will form a state administration on the principles on which he works and operate management in private companies, that this is possible, that the services delivered by the state can also be measured precisely, as the profits of private companies are measured. We must adopt the basic elements of this system, which include the focus on citizens, decentralisation and division on those who bring policy, so the Assembly, ministers, state secretaries, and state officials who implement this policy and who have nothing to do with party orientation. Is that so today? It's not. Is that supposed to change? I'm sure we should, and I'm sure by passing this law we'll do it, even if we take the first step, if nothing else. Therefore, the key to the preservation of a normal and democratic system in Serbia is the establishment of a non-partial public service and the creation of a public administration as a partner to the private sector and civil society, not as a burden to the state and to tax bonds. We see this way, Mr. Krasic, changes to this law and therefore we will support the proposals of these two laws, confident that this is the first and most important step in public sector reform. I am sure that even the vast majority of employees in the state administration who are well, diligently and diligently doing their job every day will support these changes, because this is an opportunity for them to get their right place after the law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29357	Thank you. Mr. Todorovic isn't here. Then the word has Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29358	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister and the other representatives of the Ministry, we have three very important laws ahead of us and that they do not come at the time of the crisis, they would be serious reform laws, but the laws that are the beginning of very serious reforms, which may have taken a long time to begin. The matter that we are dealing with in this debate, which is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, the Proposal for a Law on the Determination of the Maximum Number of Employees in the Republic and the Local Administration, is one difficult reform measure to implement, but in such situations the seriousness and consistency of the situation, as well as the existence of any programme to improve the functioning of the apparatus of the state. It is a bit degutant to hear that all those who, through all the media, attack the state as inefficient, as an overcount, as someone who spends money uncontrollably and too, now appear, as Mr Krasic, and say that not to be fired, but, even, perhaps to increase the number of civil servants. As someone who worked in the state administration, I think it was too much to carry out this reform and rationalization, especially when these laws basically have three basic elements that talk about how seriously this rationalization is seriously accessible. First of all, we need to systemize jobs, make them real and meaningful work that needs to be done. It represents an opportunity for those who are best to get a job, to work this job for good money, and if those who are not, look for happiness in another organisation, first of all, in productive jobs, which will result in new jobs. The second principle that is respected here is education, permanent education, which is necessary. I think it's a chronic disease of the whole society -- to finish school once, and never ask you anything, whether you've perfected or not. The state, as an example, needs to carry out a permanent education of its staff, in order to be permanently involved in the progress of society. We are aware that society, as a living organism, suffers various changes, over various times, and it is impossible that a man who acquired certain knowledge 10 years ago, these same knowledge can fully benefit without needing additional knowledge. The third principle, most manipulated, is, in a banal sense, fired workers. The reduction in the number of people in the state and local administration is not a banal layoff of workers, meaning that someone is left out of work, but the reorganisation provides the possibility that these people who represent surpluses, because they are either not educated or unproductive, go to productive places and thus create opportunities for employment, not just their own, but others. The control role of the Serbian Parliament and the responsibility of the Assembly exist here, and we do not deny it, but a good example of rationalisation is also a small shift that the Assembly has made by adopting a new rules of procedure. There were huge resistances, and now we can measure that rationalization. So, the same number of MPs each year passed two or three laws, and we, by amending the Rules of Procedure, against whom most people were, came to the adoption of over 200 laws, so calculate how much, in a unit of time, by each MP, was more effective and how much cheaper for the state. In that sense, I would approach this. Normally, laws also have certain, in my opinion, technical disadvantages, which can be corrected in amendment. I'd like to say just one small example of the methodology of taking parameters to determine the maximum number. We don't mind, we support that number to be 4 proms, even, as someone who's also in local self-government, I think it's completely too much for people to have as much efficiency and as cheap management as possible, so that the number is smaller, if possible, but that the number of residents that this change is being calculated on is realistically seen. The new methodology, according to the 2002 census, did not take into account people working abroad, on temporary work, and displaced persons, and they are, however, citizens who use full local self-government services. I think that should be considered, I've amended it, because it's not a small number of people, it's 30 and some municipalities. Let's just say, in the community I come from, 7.5 thousand people don't exist, but they're on the ballot. It certainly is not a fundamental problem, it is a mathematical budget, and I think the motionary will fully agree with me and respect these remarks. All in all, such reform laws are necessary, if we want to become a modern state, rather than interpreting such laws as some advocacy to Europe and the EU. Well, we don't pass laws like this to be members of the EU alone, but to live better as citizens of this country. I believe that such a level of concept of such laws is necessary to all of us, so that we do not come to contradictions that at some point, even, we support what we attacked a few months ago. The ZES parliamentary group will support such legal solutions, and I expect that, with amendments and repairs of technical nature, we will fully coordinate and bring about the appropriate purpose of such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29359	The word is Mr Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29360	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think these two laws on determining the maximum number of employees in the republican administration and local self-government have any better accusations of the Dosmanian regime and the DS. These two laws best show the character and essence of the DS government. At the same time, there is no better evidence than these two laws that this Dosmanian government has done invaluable damage to the Republic of Serbia and Serbian citizens since 2000. First of all, if you take only the principles relating to the proposal for the number of employees in the republican administration and local self-government, you come into the situation to immediately realize that a number of people have been disfigured, that they do not have the same rights as those employed in local self-government with those employed in the republican administration, because in the republican administration you started from a fixed number, and in local self-government you determined to be in line with some average that is related to the countries of Europe. Then why didn't you say what the average is in the states, when it comes to the state administration, so you didn't, by the same logic as you did in local self-government, go to the republican administration? Because you are in the Republic administration, as well as in local self-government, you are responsible for this number of people who are employed. I would understand that in 2001 you started with this law. I would congratulate you, an affair, to allow people to work in a way that will be useful to the state, to reduce the administration, to really be a citizen service and to make that service cheap. What happened? It took place completely reverse – 31 August 2001, in the Government and the Office for Joint Affairs of the Republic's Authorities, a total of 8,099 persons, of which, 171 appointed persons and 7,928 employees. Not three years later, on 31 March 2004, the state administration in the Republic of Serbia was increased by just over three times, with 27,238 workers employed. Who hired these people? Is that the old regime, the dictatorial regime until 2000? No, that's what you did. Babe, aunts, aunts and party staff. If you had shown these results in terms of economy, you would have ruled for 100 years. Imagine you've hired so many people in the economy! What did you do? You stole and devastated Serbia, so-called The robbery or godfather's privatisation, and all the millions that were robbed, you called them collateral damage, or the losers of the transition. What chance did they have of protecting themselves in any way, when in every place, at all times, you were looking to rob as much as possible, not taking care of the interests of the state and the interests of Serbian citizens? Should I remind you, from the first privatisation of Beocinska 'Samentara', 'Sartida', Palace ''Moses', 'Sugarane', what's not? Do I need to remind you of that? How many people are unemployed today? Over a million. How many are on the edge or below the poverty line? You admit 700 grand, but there must be a lot more. Who led to that? You brought it. You see, when it comes to the number of employees, our country has more than Finland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland, that Mr. Milan Markovic knows perfectly. Imagine, Poland has 38 million inhabitants, the Czech Republic – 10.5, Hungary – 10 and Finland – 500. These three countries are countries that are also in transition. Look, Poland -- 38 million, and we're seven million and 400, and we have more people in the state administration. For what? Because you should have made up all your staff, all your relatives, because you consider the power to be prey, and the spoil is to be taken, to be robbed, and everything that comes to your hands you use to make yourselves rich, so that you may benefit, your party, your friends and relatives. Here's an example. In 2001, at the Ministry of Education, the famous Gassa Knezevic came to the Ministry at the time, there were 400 people who worked. In a short time, Gasha hired another 200. He increased the number by 50%, and the IMF demands that teachers, teachers, teachers, be dismissed technical staff, that the departments have 30 students, that pupils be transported, etc., to be saved. For what? Because you've led to this. Gasa Knezevic was not a member of the SRS, he was a DOS member. DOS did this, DS, under your leadership, all this was done. Watch out, inspection supervision in certain ministries, which was in 2004, showed that the state administration had been employed and persons who had not passed a professional exam for work in the authorities of the administration. Only in the Ministry of Education and Sports during 2004, as many as 122 such persons were discovered. The country's bulky administration demanded enormous budget expenditures, with a total of 84.5 billion dinars for the financing of state administration and public services being allocated in the Republic of Serbia's 2005 budget, and huge budget fees were recorded in 2006, 2007, 2008, probably in 2009, and as long as you remain in power, this will be the situation. Let me remind you, at the time of Prince Michael, until 1918, there were only eight ministries in Serbia, so that the Serbian state had one of the cheapest and most rational administrations in Europe at the time. But what comes under your hands, that grass doesn't grow. Now let's start with the bill, where you say – there is currently a republican administration of 30,624 employees and that number should be reduced to 28,400. I ask a simple question and ask a rational answer – what does this 28,400 mean? For me, the only rational answer – it's the number of people you've hired by 2004 and those you've hired since 2006, while you've been in the government with Vojislav Kostunica, and this difference up to 30,624, these are personnel who have been employed by other parties who have been acting in power in the previous period, and those people who are there by professional and working qualifications, who will be out of work. As long as your cynicism goes, it's simply that a man says he has no limits. Be careful, Article 2 says – the maximum number of employees for each government body, public agency and compulsory social security organisation is determined by the Government. The number of employees provided for in the Job Systematisation Act cannot be greater than the maximum number of employees specified by the Government's Act of Position 2 of this Member. Article 3 says – the restriction set out in Article 1 does not apply to the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute and the Republic Geodetic Institute, as well as to persons engaged in EU law enforcement activities by the Office for European Integration. You don't do anything else. You do not do anything else, just translate and send them directly to the congregation to be adopted by the congregation. There's one thing that's just amazing. You predict to fire this number of people, but also in Article 3 you say they can hire faces, but no more than 10%, employed at a certain time in the Republic administration. When you calculate these 10% you're going to hire, we're going to have more than 30,624 employees and you're clearly saying that here. Whoever wants to read and interpret, it is clear to him that this is a new fraud by DS and Mladjan Dinkic. There's no dilemma. When you look at only in 2009, things are quite clear here, what Serbian citizens can expect. Look out, from 1 January to 11 September 2009, 71 public work relations competitions in the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia have emerged from the Staff Management Service of the Government of Serbia; 44 public competitions relate to reception, or employment in the employment relationship of civil servants, and 27 public competitions concern reception, i.e. employment in the working relationship of officials with the state authority. Thus, 286 new civil servants are employed in advertising competitions and 67 new officials, too, in advertising competitions. A total of 353 people were employed from 1 September to 11 September 2009. It's only in 2009, and you want to rationalize the republican administration. It is the same as you promised those 1,000-euro free shares. Let's look at what it looks like when it comes to hiring on a party line. Based on the records downloaded from the government site of the Republic of Serbia – 157 civil servants are in the portfolios run by DS officials - Boris Tadic and 32 officials run by DS, suma sumarum – 189; 99 civil servants in the portfolios run by G17 officials, i.e. Mladjan Dinkic, and 11 officials operated by G17, a total of 110. As you may recall, Dinkic immediately hired his mother, Mirosinku, in 2001, at the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection, I think, and his wife went to Labus. Who's to whom, if they don't want their mother and wife. That's clear. There are also eight civil servants in resolutions run by SPS officials. Recorders in employment are: Ministry of Finance – 48, Ministry of Justice – 34, Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning – 46, Ministry of Economy and Regional Development – 49. Where's the G17 membership coming from? Well, everyone has a job contract, they'll almost have none left. Ministry of Health – 37. Be careful, at the Ministry of Health 37, and Dragisa Misovic Hospital burns, most likely because a fire has been set to cover up crime during reconstruction. The Minister of Health, on the question – will you resign, he says – something happens in my portfolio every day. Why should the minister resign? He's been in the ministry for six years, or seven. My people, what a country you are, what kind of people you are, what you do with this country. To make it perfectly clear to the citizens of Serbia who you are and what you are, the witness Zoran Mitrovica said, at a time when he totalled 200,000 euros in contributions to the DS in the Goran Knezevic case. At the time, Zoran Milic owned a private company called Parkus, the DOO of Novi Sad, which owned several other companies. He says – at the end of 2005, or in early 2006, I gave 45,000 euros to Goran Knezevic, and I handed that money over to DS rooms in Zrenjanin. "Once during 2007, it seems to me that it was just then that there were presidential elections," it is for those packages you go and share with those you brought to the beggar stick, which are starving, "the second time in 2008, and once I brought money home to Goran Knezevic. "Interestingly, suma suma sumarum, that's 200,000 euros. He says - I am a friend of Goran Knezevic. Goran was president of the DS City Committee and I knew that money was going for the right reasons, then, as it is now. He doesn't seem to be wearing Gorana Knezevic anymore, since he's in prison, but another DS member. This is you, the robbers and the destroyers of Serbia and the property of Serbia. I'll show you something that's bordering on the impossible. Is it possible it's happening in our country? This is a contract for the provision of consulting services – the creation and implementation of the privatisation strategy for the Public Enterprise "Jat Airways". It's a contract signed, and it's the ones who got the money. Look out, Jeremy Moody, some big, as far as I can see, 2,024 euros received daily for his services, a total of 80,000 euros for 33 days. Some Nicholas — 1,957, some Francis — 1,917, then 1,818, then 1,750, 1,660, all daily. Milutin Nikolic, what do you think is a radical – 1,364 euros a day, Pavle Kavran – 1,250, Filip – 1,905, John – 1,905, James Cooper – 1,500 etc. In total, people, 1,250,000 euros were given for these consultations, and Jat Airways is in front of the Brancrot. This money doesn't even have American advisors for this global economic crisis. Do you see what kind of robbery is being held in Serbia, which you are conducting, because at that time, as far as I know, the director of the "Yat Airways" was from the DS. Let me remind you now of "Nikola Tesla" Airport, Bojan Krist, those who took the severance payment, as the minister is telling us now, and then went to "Skials of Serbia". As long as you think you're robbing this Serbia and this people and making promises here, you're lying about how you're going to conduct rationalization? How is that possible? You're supposed to be responsible for this. It'll be more years than we've spent under the Turks.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29361	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Your time is up. Mr. Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29362	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have heard the statements of my predecessors and I think one conclusion can be made – that what is happening today and what is on the agenda, these three laws that Serbia has expected extremely much, to get a cheaper state, to finally get one administration that will be a state administration and that will take care of many of the jobs that will be done, the clean marketing that the government is making to court citizens, for God's sake, someone wants to reduce the administration. You heard the Minister Dinkic himself, when in his very long presentation, and I don't know on which basis he exhibits here about the reduction of the republican and municipal administration, he told us that for three papers now to wait on one counter, to spend less money, etc., and he didn't remember, for example, when he recently carried out a major action in Serbia – sharing a thousand euros in shares for each resident, when he lined up across Serbia five million people, when it was all accompanied by direct TV transmissions, press conferences, great advisers, etc., how much it cost that action of which so far was nothing. I expected the economy minister to come up with some economic laws, talk about the problem of how to fill Serbia's budget realistically. We can't charge it with credit, we can't charge it with credit lines. All of this when you add up, this reduction in administration, it's one crumb in the budget that doesn't mean, Malten, nothing; it's just going to make thousands of families unhappy, primarily those people who aren't obedient, who consciously and securely do their job and who aren't party people. The goal of all of this is that, instead of one state administration, which we need to build, a party administration is being built, which is what we've been talking about so far. So we're going to get one party administration, which will work by respecting the ruling coalition, so there's going to be a change in those insubordination. You listened to the minister, he says, "The Labour Valuation Team." Who's the one in power who's gonna be worth the work of some opposition who's been working there for years and doing a great job? Then certain orders will be given, certain controls and those who fail to meet their evaluations and evaluations will be fired. That's very incorrect. When they recalculate and everything that goes through with this, we see that in 2010, we won't have any more significant savings. This is all so minor, and we're not following the outflow of funds in another way from the budget, through public enterprises. Let's take what we've talked about here several times, and no one's giving an answer, marketing organizations working on certain marketing projects for certain ministries, how much money is given. That's a hundred times more than it'll save these measures to cut the administration. Let me not tell you about public enterprises, what the situation is and what's going to happen here, what new situations are going to happen here. So this is cheap marketing, which someone came up with before the end of the year, for God's sakes, to give some hope that next year will be a cheaper state. No, it'll be much more expensive. At the previous sessions, we brought in twice as many administrations, it was appointed through agencies, municipal police, through administrative regions, than in this case will be reduced. Over twice the administration will be increased than these will be reduced. I recently followed one show on RTS, and when I was listening to the data presented by Mrs Jovanovic about only one ministry, the Ministry of Health, what malfeasances and what happened there, I can't understand that no one can prevent it and that no one has officially announced that it is commenting, that there is a statement, and we are now going to leave some people out of work, for God's sake, with a big, powerful campaign to be conducted, and there will be no positive effects from it. I remember the shows that were made several months ago, that Serbia's budget and the budget of the city of Belgrade was damaged by over two and a half billion euros only as far as Luke "Belgrade" and "Usce" are concerned, and yet nothing. Nothing happened again, it all forgot, it covered up some minor affairs, and it all ended. Not to mention many affairs in the pharmaceutical field, everything that's been going on, about many funds, about the Privatisation Agency, about many of the funds that have been spent, about the wrong contract that's been made with the Fiat, where the Fiat has not invested a single dinar to this day, where the contract is not respected. Not to mention the effects of shutting down the concession for the construction of the Horgos-Požega road, which had unsightly consequences for the Serbian economy, for employment in Serbia and for the real budgeting. I can't figure out that someone's shutting down a concession that's supposed to start working and now we've got so much damage. Do you know how much damage the day the concession was shut down, when the works were about to begin, to this day, only in the car accidents that took place at the Ibaric Master's Office? It's something that can't be explained, about the dead, about the injured, about the great material damage. Every day they die and no one puts it on the agenda. How is it possible for some infrastructure council to derail the concession that was adopted in the Serbian Parliament, which passed through Parliament and officially voted here? So these are purely marketing moves, and I think it's a shame we're dealing with small things and we're listening to the Minister's bombing statements here. Of course, they keep their word and go away, get lost, won't attend, won't hear criticism and eventually answer that. They keep their letters and go. I wish the economy minister remained to say how much the debts of the Serbian economy are at the end of the year, what the interest rates of the Serbian economy are, what the debts of the state are. Last time we asked Cvetkovic – you were in charge, and he says – yes, we took the loan, but no one was in charge. How is it possible that no one is in charge, and we'll get three billion? Who's gonna pay for that loan? I don't think he was even clear to himself what he was doing here, what he was saying, what nonsense he put out, and he just picked himself up and went all happy; he sure did what he had to do, stayed for a few hours and thought it had some effect. Nobody said how much money was spent on crap budget stuff. Yesterday I visited the villages of Devic and the rest of the village in Golia. Do you know what I saw in every village? Some NGO, "Our Serbia", and the signed "AP Vojvodina" below, have glued many tablets as they move towards the development of the region, all the jobs in Vojvodina have ended and have now arrived in Goli. Imagine one place – Staying in Golia, where people say – we don't know, someone came along and dressed up concrete and confused those records and those tablets, and it says "Our Serbia", they glued it up, they glued it, they glued it, and they went away. I ask – did they bring you anything? They say nothing. Every village has seen it that way. The school next to that table was sneezing, the roof fell and the water just poured in. They were glued and placed in front of schools with two students, and ten years ago, they had 200 or 300 students. Now they have two students, one boy and one girl going to school, but that's why she's standing in front of a huge board. They say - vehicles came, people came, they brought concrete, they brought mixers and they glued it all up, they glued it up, and they put it on, because Vojvodina solved all the problems. Pitiæ finished everything and, behold, he arrived in Goli to kill his board there, too, to see that he was jealous. After solving all the problems in Vojvodina, he also made it to Golia, to a village in the mountains, to Devic, to these mountains, Ossavnica. He was also the president of Serbia. They said they were building a new school. Right away all the people voted. What's the matter? No school, no rain school, everything's going down. It's all about the accident, the misery, to see what it looks like. The windows at the school – you can get your hand out and wave when they come next time, you don't have to let the kids out, put your hand through the closed window. There's a lot of money in the budget, not to mention the people's offices, all kinds of nonsense they've been. Now we come to the position that someone will be worthy of the work of every clerk. Imagine how many clerks there are? There are over 500,000, over 550,000 in Serbia, and everyone will value it, to follow it. Who are they to follow and write how it works, that tomorrow they can fire him, of course, if he's bad or if he doesn't act according to the law? I'm not just talking about the local administration, the republican administration, I'm talking about the Serbian administration at all. As educators are judged, here, they are now evaluated in human health. People are out of a job. The leading orthopedics are being replaced, the surgeons. Why? Because they haven't been members of a health care party for tens of years. I can't understand that a man who's 16 years old is a successful chief of one service, because he recently wouldn't sign a party book, changed. He's been told: Get ready for retirement. He says, "I don't have a year yet." It doesn't matter, you're going to retire, because that's how some powerful people found out. Many are politicised, many political administrations are being made, many are entering political waters, instead of making the right state administration and respecting state institutions. Institutions are losing more and more importance. Among the most important institutions is this parliament. Look, important laws are passed. Here's who's sitting in the hall -- Riza Halimi, these two from Unity Serbia, Mr. One from the SPS, a couple from the SPS and two-three from the DS. You're so interested in these laws that life means it's inexplicable. For example, the other day, Riza Halimi says – you opened a road down that wasn't finished, not put into traffic. You've all been, like, the whole state top. If I heard it correctly, though, it's very weak and heard in this room. Here, he came to apologize to the countrymen, conveying here what is done, a direct transfer from Parliament. It is very sad that in the Serbian Parliament, when there are important topics, there are no MPs; firing 500 people is a big deal, but firing thousands of people is for some life. I see the Technical Remont Institute has easily fired people. The other day I spoke here to Minister Sutanovac – do not replace Ljujic, a capable director in the military industry. He brought in one of his good men, a good boy, who tried, but the first problem in the first week couldn't solve it. There, yesterday was his funeral, he couldn't stand it, the man was killed. The man died. He couldn't stand it. Don't push the personnel who can't bear the burden of what you've imposed on certain people, both inside and everywhere. The other day I spoke to the minister - do not invite municipalities and order your DS - come home, where you come from, and protest etc. People went home. I'm very sorry for that new director who succumbed, young man, but he couldn't stand the burden of a company, because they forced him out of here to work, to be obedient, and he had thousands of people waiting for him downstairs, and the unfortunate one suffered and, God rest his soul, succumbed to him. Why? You can't run a state like that. Gentlemen of the DS, you've introduced some crisis headquarters. I was the only president of the municipality who wouldn't allow any crisis headquarters to be introduced in 2000 to Chačka. It destroyed and completely destroyed Serbia's economy. I'm called by some who are now in government great officials, so they say, "Ilic, what are you doing, we're coming to the flag, we're taking her, she's bringing people if you have, we're setting up a crisis headquarters. I say, people, are you normal, who the devil you'll be there, get as far away from there as possible. You won't be able to do anything. The Minister of Economy needs to do a little business, we need to see what to finally do with this Bor, this Majdanpek, this Magnochroma, this Electronic Industry, the Viskoza and the others, how can gentlemen begin to fill the budget realistically? What about agriculture to do at this point? Don't just brag and tell stories. We're talking about reducing the administration, but when he was a ransom of plums, the certificate had to be extracted in Vienna. Do you know, when one morning I showed up in Vienna, there were 5,000 people who came to get a certificate. Let the poor woman say - people, in 20 days I can't fill out your forms. After that, it quit, but the campaign was ruined, the plums were rotten, and no one had anything to do with it. Vienna was never a plum manufacturer. Who built the chief certification office there? Well, we made all the plums at the Institute of Fruiting in Chačka, and went to get a certificate in Vienna. I've never heard that there are many orchards out there, etc., but someone wanted to transfer a lot of money, a lot of resources to Vienna, and create a general mess. Imagine the guy from Valyev, from Ariel, when he has to travel and sit for two days and wait for a certificate? It's all the wrong thing to do and it doesn't lead to anything and it won't take us anywhere. That's why Serbia is failing. The most native year of the last 20 years, the peasant has never been the poorer, never been the poorer. So we need to work something out, but let's sit down, let's make a deal. Put these serious topics on the agenda. Let's not just tell empty stories. Let's not let one minister, one ministry take care of everything. Who was doing this law? Who is the author of this law? What ministry is the rule of this law, these three laws that are before us? What minister worked, did Markovic or Dinkic? Don't, please, we're being ridiculous. The ministry that has a billion other problems is making a law on reducing the administration in local self-government. You ended up in the economy, in the economy, all flowers, banks, credits, it all worked out, and now it occurred to you to do the law on reducing local administrations. So, it's not going well, don't get confused, pull this bill. Sit down, arrange whatever you want, as I advise you on the Statute of the Duke. Don't embarrass yourself. Don't say anything that's against the constitution. The whole world is laughing at us for what laws we make, and all that under the company of an EU. Well, the European Union is laughing. Do you think the European Union is not in contact with the opposition? (President: I thank you, Mr. Ilic. Time. Do you think the embassies don't contact the opposition? Do you think the World Bank doesn't come to the opposition?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29363	Thank you. We'll continue after break at 15 o'clock. The People's Messenger Zoran Shami will have the word. [[After break – 15:00]] The word is Mr. Zoran Shami. Here you go. (National MP Milos Aligrudic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I have information that Minister Ljajic is here. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29365	It refers to Article 27. It can be interpreted in different ways. Probably because we interpret in different ways, you tell us there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and we tell you there are. It is natural that there must be some sort of consistency in the way in which the congregation is run, in the sense of that same Article 27. Rules of Procedure, which is a reference norm in relation to other members of the Rules of Procedure when it comes to how the session is conducted. Once upon a time, you, as chairman, interrupt the session and say it makes no sense to continue because there are no ministers. That happened last week, so let's put it all off for Monday. Today, at the time the session is scheduled, we begin work by calling the present representative of the parliamentary group and not having any of the ministers present in the hall at the time, even though there were three of them this morning. There is no DS MP, perhaps one alone, in the O.R. right now, who, by the way, has spoken about this subject, so probably a man of interest has prepared himself. So I just can't believe this is supposed to be the usual and normal way to do it. What I can minimally invite you to, within the meaning of that same Article 27, is that at least you can be consistent with how the National Assembly is run, if you are able to do so, and if you are not, let us know, that at least we know that nothing will ever happen in this assembly, that we can never know how to abide by certain rules and principles in the work. There's one thing that's possible once. The second time is possible another time, etc. So, I don't know what you're gonna do. You'll probably tell me there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, that this belongs to the domain of your arbitration decision. Well done, keep going, but I'd suggest we take a little break before the ministers come, or at least one of them, so we can continue this debate in an adequate manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-02-0.u29366	You're right. It's not right to argue without a minister. I have information that the minister is in the building and will be in the O.R. any minute now, and that, probably, until he gets here, his associates are recording and monitoring everything that's going on. It doesn't matter if the ministers have any intention of coming or being in the building. As I was told, we can expect them at any moment. I'll take your suggestion, and I'll take a 15-minute break. [[Continuation after break – 15.20]] I suggest we wait another 15 minutes, so if there are no government representatives, we'll postpone the session for tomorrow. [[Continuation after break – 15/33]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall, that is, more than one third of the MPs are present and that we have conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request an explanation or notification in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Mr. Markicevic Miroslav has a word. Here you go.
