ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28112	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 112 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are 87 MPs present in the hall and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from being attended by MPs: Nikola Lazic, Konstantin Arsenovic and Zoran Nikolic. I shall inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, also today, called for the meetings, in addition to Mr. Minister, to attend: Dusan Spasojevic and Igor Jovičić, State Secretarys at the Ministry of Defence Dragan Radulovic, Defence Ministry Secretary Brigadier General Mitar Kovac, Colonel Goran Zekovic and Slavica Jerkovic, Defence Ministry Chiefs and Milorad Peric, Head of the International Military Co-operation Administration at the Ministry of Defence, as well as Zoran Jevtic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE CIVIL SERVICE (single) To Article 71 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28113	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we are at the end of the debate in detail on this civil service law, I will in some ways sum up what the MPs of the SRS were saying yesterday about this law. First of all, for the sake of the public, I would like to state the position of the SRS when it comes to civil service, as you have unwittingly called it in the draft of this law, that the SRS opposes civil service of the military because it is not in accordance with our tradition, and above all it is absolutely the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I will remind three members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. First, Article 139, which speaks of the jurisdiction of the Serbian Army, says: "The army of Serbia defends the country from armed endangerment outside and executes other missions and tasks in accordance with the Constitution, law and principles of international law that regulate the use of force." This law that we are discussing today, unfortunately, does not create conditions to be fulfilled in Article 139. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, God forbid, if necessary. And it is not good that yesterday all day first of all by the government's representatives, and also by Parliament's chairman, Mrs Comic, every discussion of SRS MPs turned in the opposite direction and in exchange for the thesis tried to make it known that we were opposed to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I'll keep going second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28114	Thank you. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 72nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28115	Now I want to remind you of Article 45. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of an objection to conscience, says: "The person is not required to fulfil, contrary to his faith or beliefs, a military or other obligation involving the use of weapons. A person who is called upon to object may be called upon to fulfil a military obligation without obligation to bear arms, in accordance with the law." This is the basis of our debate yesterday and our claim that this civil service law is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The 45th member who speaks of the objection of conscience does not mention, nor leaves the possibility of civil service to the military, and none of the MPs of the SRS has said at any time any sentence that is contrary to Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So a person who is called upon to object can certainly serve and should serve military service in a barracks, in a uniform, but without weapons. You're not going to tell us that a chef in the Army who's supposed to cook military beans has to carry guns. So he can be in the barracks, he can serve the Army in uniform, and that's how it's supposed to be, but with conscience without weapons. This leaves no possibility for the Ministry or the Government to propose a law that is unconstitutional, which provides for civil service, which, I repeat, is not provided for in Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's why SRS MPs object to passing such a law. I'll discuss it in the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28116	The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the amendment of the 73rd. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28117	Therefore, SRS MPs oppose the adoption of such a law because we think Serbia must not appear in the legal system that is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We expect the Constitutional Court to react and declare this whole law unconstitutional, as did the SRS MPs with their amendments, proposing that each member individually deletes be made aware of the proposing and the assembly majority, if they pass this law, to pass a law that is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. At this moment, I, i.e. in explaining the last amendment, which speaks of when this law should enter into force, once again I call upon the Government's representative and the Assembly's majority not to pass unconstitutional laws, that this law should never and should never enter into force. At the same time, I address all young people who are standing or standing up for the Army, regardless of the fact that we have a bad defence minister, that in Serbia we have a harmful government that destroys all segments of society, including the Army, that this regime does not care in any respect between other and young people, that this is not a motive for them to commit to civil service to the military, but to recall the 'famous past of the Serbian Army', the large Serb military leaders, whom some here yesterday mocked at mentioning their names. And to be led by patriotism which, thank God, is ever more present with young people in Serbia and that the Army is served in barracks, uniforms and weapons, to be prepared, God forbid, to defend this country one day. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28118	Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to make the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – PROPOST OF THE LAW ABOUT THE USE OF THE SERBIAS AND OTHER STRENGTHS OF THE DEFENCES IN THE MULTINATIONAL OPERATIONS OF THE SERBIA (species) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs at the bill: Bozidar Delić, Gojko Radić, Dušan Marić, Zoran Antic, Zoran Babić, Zoran Babić, Vitomir Pljužarić, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasić, Mićo Rogović, Jelena Budimirović, Dragan Šormaz, Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Šormić, Miroslav Petković, Miloš Aligrudić, Aleksandar Pejčić, Zoran Nikolić, Konsta Arsenović, Verojub Arsovarić, Oto Kišmaran, Oto Kišmaran, Gordan Šovarnović, Žaljan Šilić, Miražić, Mirić, Mirović, Mirović, Mirović, Mirović, Mirović, Mirović, Mirović, Mirović, Mirović, Milošt. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 162 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the amendment bill, with the correction, the MPs Bozidar Delic and Gojko Radic together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Under the name of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28119	This is one of the first numerous amendments, which I have submitted to this law, where the practical idea is to replace the term "multinational operations" with the term "peacekeeping mission with the mandate of the UN". In line with the resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, adopted at the 7th session of the Second Regular Session in 2007, held on 26 December, a decision on the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia was made against existing military councils. See point 6 of that Resolution. The notion of multinational operations implies the introduction of Serbia into a military -- a political bloc, primarily NATO, where members of our military and other defence forces are destined to fight for the interests of certain states or regional organisations. For this reason, I believe that the term ‘multinational operations’ is necessary to replace the term ‘Peace Mission’. Since there are peace-preservation operations and peace-preservation operations, it is important to add that the participation of the Serbian Army in "Peace-preservation peacekeeping missions" is the cause of combat operations. How the Republic of Serbia, as a basic definition of political national security, has a commitment to respecting the obligations arising from the UN Charter, it is important to stress that it is the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces in peacekeeping missions with the mandate of the UN. The reason for not accepting this and the following amendments, which logically stem from it, is that there is no need to change the term ‘multinational operations’ because it is understood that these are activities that have the character of peace, or humanitarian operations. NATO aggression on our country is a good example of such a multinational operation. The American model of defining operations for preserving, maintaining and building peace in the world as if it had come out of the hippie movement with the slogan "make love, not war", no longer uses the term "war" but "fight for Peace". This is what "let's give Peace a ear", the war conflict is, in translation, an intervention to establish peace. Is it really possible that after NATO aggression or as you like to say NATO bombing the SRJ, otherwise the code name of this multinational operation was either "an operation of allied forces" or in the United States "operation of a merciful angel", you really believe in implying the peace and humanitarian character of multinational operations? As soon as something so "multy" is, there's plenty of room left for one who demonstrates power, which is a NATO pact, something "mute." NATO aggression was NATO's second most important interference after the Bosnian Serb bombing in the operation, another multinational operation, the intentional force in 1995, and the biggest military conflict in Serbia-Montenegro since World War II. Now tell me that the intentional force was also a multinational operation with a good intention of establishing peace. That's not even the Minister of Multipractice, which we had the chance to see at the beginning of the regular fall session here, you wouldn't believe. NATO aggression did not last from March 24th to June 10th 1999 alone. In these direct multinational coups, which lasted uninterrupted 78 days, infrastructures, business facilities, schools, health institutions, media houses, monuments of culture, churches and monasteries have been severely damaged. Direct damage, even according to them, is about $30 billion. The final number of direct victims has not been officially announced. It is estimated to be 2,500 dead and 5,000 wounded. It's very interesting that in the O.R. it's now in the ranks of this yellow axis of joy, as if we're talking about getting a week at the lottery. Guys, I'm talking about NATO aggression. You have forgotten, but there are people who have direct consequences of this NATO aggression, it's a shame to act like this, but the people are watching everything. A installed incident in Račka served as an excuse for a multinational operation, the US and the EU accused Serbia of war crimes, ethnic cleansing and humanitarian disaster, so NATO, under the excuse, deployed its troops in Macedonia and Albania. At the same time, the Contact Group asked Serbia to withdraw its special forces outside the province and allow the smooth movement of Western diplomats in Kosovo. While Milosevic was on the way of 13 NATO members, the pact over Albania and Macedonia carried out a military exercise titled "Decisive Eagle". Indeed, poetic names for multinational operations. Additional pages of the Rambuje Agreement, which were originally not published in the media of Western countries, show that NATO's programme was not only to occupy Kosovo and Metohija, but to the whole of Serbia. NATO has practically requested armed intervention for the reason that the UN Security Council failed to act as a decision for armed intervention in the SRJ over opposition from China and Russia, permanent members with veto rights. That's why, Mr. Sutanovac, I said that I like to wear those Chinese and Russian watches, unlike those of you who wear these from the NATO series. For this reason, NATO has opted for an independent armed intervention, citing that a Yugoslav delegation has refused to sign the proposed Rambuje Agreement. The proposed agreement seriously jeopardises the sovereignty of the state, requires NATO troops to enter KIM, their free movement through the entire territory of the then-SRJ and a referendum on self-determination in KIM over three years, which would result in a significant factor in the decision on final status. Just as much as NATO aggression was humanitarian, this ultimatum was an agreement. As a reason for multinational operations, NATO cited the humanitarian goal of protecting Albanians in KIM against ethnic cleansing and humanitarian disasters. On the principle of a prophecy that is only being realized, the mass escape of the Albanian population from the province began only after a few days after the bombing was in full swing. NATO committed aggression in 1999 and continued until today. The aggression was an introduction to legal violence, a violation of Security Council Resolution 1244 and a declaration of one-sided independence of KIM, a more accurate scenario of the occupation of the entire state being realized. NATO aggression, NATO state, the capital of Bondsteel, the anti-missile shield on KIM, the spiritual unity of Tirana and Pristina...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28120	Mrs. Jankovic, the time at your disposal is over. Mr. Markicevic has the right to speak yet, you bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28121	I will continue this in the next amendment, which will follow soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28122	Mr. Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28123	Dear President, I'm reporting for a commercial injure of the Rules of Procedure. I call on Article 27, and I ask you, as President of the National Assembly, to allow order and peace in the hall, especially when we are talking about NATO aggression. I see that the Department of Defense's team has been overly ignoring what Ambassador Aleksandra Jankovic said. I expect you to make it possible for order and to remind the majority of MPs who deliberately or intentionally laughed, spoke too loudly when it came to NATO aggression. Please make it possible, not because of the order itself here in the Assembly, but because of the people who are victims of NATO aggression. What kind of message do we give from the Assembly if half the hall doesn't want to listen, laughs? Am I to understand that they deliberately want to cover what Alexandra Jankovic said with their loud conversation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28124	I ask the People's MPs, this is usually the usual time when the jam is really something bigger, I really ask you, that the atmosphere in the hall be decent. Mr. Zoran Ostojić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28125	The LDP generally considers a set of these military laws, as it calls it in the jargon, by moving forward and by Serbia's need. We have some objections to some of the laws, and when it comes to this law the general remark is, specifically for him, that a little extreme role of the National Assembly in relation to the Draft and our two amendments will deal with it. I'll talk more about these concrete solutions when we get to those amendments, but we have one general grudge, which is to avoid determining, defining, in which missions our military will participate or may participate. It is no doubt that this bill of law is a shift compared to the previous law called the Law on the participation of professional members of the Serbia-Montenegro Army, civil protection staff and staff in the authorities of the administration, etc., it is the 2004 law. In a sense, he shyly announced that he could also participate in some missions that were not necessarily peaceful. In contrast, the proposal for this law clearly defines multinational operations which, apart from peace, include joint defence operations, in accordance with defence regulations. In general, we wanted to define what a collective security system would be to be involved in. These are certainly UN and UN-led missions, but we think that participation in NATO missions and European security forces should also be put in place. We think that by binding on the UN mandate alone, we would literally exclude ourselves from something that is emerging, which is European security forces. If the political position of most parties here is that we need EU membership, then I don't think we should exclude participation in European security forces. If you have not found the courage and will to define Serbia's future as members of the NATO Pact with the National Security Strategy, although I welcome that there is no mention of military neutrality, then perhaps in this law you could also list participation in NATO missions, which does not necessarily mean membership. On the other hand, these days are often said, I'm saying this for the citizens, some resolution about military neutrality, which was brought two years ago. This assembly has never passed any resolution on military neutrality, you gentlemen, all of you except LDP, who voted in favour of that resolution, I remind you, it was the resolution on Kosovo, in which you shyly, in small letters, wrote that military neutrality. I really don't think that a tactical move, at one point, two years ago with your coalition partner should have consequences for the country's future and that we are now calling for this resolution on Kosovo, which in one sentence mentions military neutrality, and that is why we cannot move forward. Even in the government's explanation, why she rejected our amendments to the Strategy for Defence and National Security, in which we asked for a provision according to NATO membership, the pact states that this is not in line with the Resolution on military neutrality. Nor does it have resolutions on military neutrality, it has resolutions on Kosovo, but this has been brought by the Assembly. Anything the congregation brings can change, so by that logic we couldn't change the law that we passed. That's why we think, Mr. Minister, you're halfway there. And half the time, it's just not full. On the other hand, it seems to me that Serbia has disintegrated. You know that when a man breaks up a lot in principle, he's not stable. So we think that maybe, I should say, if you're going so slowly, so it's not the time, so no one's calling us to do something that would be a signal to call us, I think it's in the interest of this country and these citizens. If you have not already accepted Serbia's wish for full membership in the strategies, then at least here in this law you could say – we will participate primarily in UN-led missions, NATO missions and European Security Forces missions. This is one of the objections that is being made in fact through all these laws, which we cannot influence, we understand some issues of political opportunity, but we really think that if it is a genuine desire for full membership in the EU, then that desire should be a desire for rapid EU membership, and I remind you that European officials have said, and US Vice President Biden said that it is not a condition for EU membership in NATO, but that we will get there faster with NATO membership. Well, if we want to get there faster, I think we could have taken a bigger step by passing these military laws and defining and determining towards NATO than we did. This is our basic grudge, and we essentially support these laws because they are really a step forward and needed Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28126	I thank you, Mr. Ostojic, for using the time of your authorised representative. Thank you. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28127	Ladies and gentlemen, with my amendment, I suggest that in the name of this law it is specified - that peace and humanitarian operations are at stake, which is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The SRS is in principle against sending Serbian soldiers and citizens to any military mission outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, for the reason that practice shows that most of these missions eventually, more or less, will be used to violate international law and to achieve certain individual interests of major forces. It would be acceptable for us, and this is in line with the constitution, the participation of Serbian soldiers in peacekeeping and humanitarian missions provided that they are organised under the auspices of the UN, on the basis of a UN Security Council decision, that they are limited by the scope and length of the duration and that there are firm guarantees that they will not be used, abused, for conquering purposes to spread the influence of the US and NATO Pact, and that they will not be used to violate the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the host country. Under the current circumstances, such guarantees are simply not possible. In the last 20 years, all of the world's peacekeeping missions have mostly been a means of achieving American plans – to dominate the planet and to establish control over natural resources. That's what we Serbs have felt best in the past 20 years. I remind you, the peace mission in Croatia has been used for the occupation of Republika Srpska and for the largest ethnic cleansing in Europe since World War II. A peacekeeping mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been used to arm Croats and Muslims and to occupy part of Republika Srpska's territory. After the end of the war and the signing of the Dayton Agreement, the peacekeeping mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina is practically in the role of achieving the war goals of Muslims and Croats, which is the abolition of Republika Srpska. The kiM peacekeeping mission, led by famous General Walker, has served to provide a formal excuse for the NATO pact's aggression against SRJ and for the occupation of part of Serbia's territory. Now, we Serbs need to do the same thing, join the Americans and help them terrorize other countries and nations, send our children to die in Iraq, Afghanistan, tomorrow perhaps Iran. What do we have to do with Iran or Afghanistan? None, and the only touching point between us and them is that we and we are both victims of NATO and American fascism. We're occupied by Americans, and tomorrow or five years from now, it takes our children under American command to send to terrorize and occupy some other peoples and states. The adoption of this law would create a legal framework for that to happen. We in the SRS believe that this is a function of the psychological preparation of the nation, the Serbian nation, to accept it for five or ten years. We are against it, and for this reason we will vote against the adoption of this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28128	You've been talking for a minute and a half longer. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Antic and Zoran Babic. Mr. Antic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28129	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, and as far as the SNS is concerned, we are dissatisfied with the name of this law, therefore, with the term "multinational operations" and the use of the Army as it is laid out in this law quite broadly. Insisting that our army can participate in UN-only operations. We, unlike our colleagues from other parliamentary groups, have proposed the term "peace operations", specifically, the UN, where we have made it clear that, at this political moment, it is extremely important for us -- that every step on the international plan be tied to the UN. We ourselves know that we are victims of some multinational forces that did not have the mandate of the UN – therefore we expect to restore our territorial sovereignty and integrity of our country and, I would say, it is politically unserious at this point into a law, which could potentially bind our military forces to other international organisations. Of course, you know we're all thinking about NATO. In a way, we tie our hands to ourselves in some very important processes that should, as I said, enable us to resolve the situation in Kosovo – the return of Kosovo within the borders of Serbia, that is, to help our diplomacy in this way. Therefore, once again, the term for us is unacceptable. We are aware that during the period of the former Yugoslavia, namely the Titos of Yugoslavia, our forces have often had the opportunity to participate beyond our borders, that this is very good for the Army of Serbia, for our country and thus to improve the reputation of our army and country, but not in this way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28130	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28131	Of course, I'm going back to where I left off. I suppose the minister doesn't care, but he'd have to act a little less arrogant, because it's really causing irritation and MPs and peoples. But maybe it's a good introduction to what I'm going to say and, of course, the good start of a new Serbia and the introduction to a new election. You know, NATO did commit aggression in 1999, but it continued until today. Aggression was a prelude to legal violence when Security Council Resolution 1244 was violated and the false state of Kosovo was declared. So, the introduction was aggression, then the creation of the first NATO state on the Balkan territory, the capital Bondsteel, the missile shield, which nobody is talking about here, the spiritual unity of Tirana and Pristina, and, in practice, the realization of the entire state's occupation plan begins. The southern province is practically occupied by NATO, and you ministers, through a set of military laws, are actually helping us get away. Your preferences would be your business if you weren't the Secretary of Defense of this country. I'm sorry, but the fact that you're a military minister can only be seen by the amount of security that is present wherever you appear. As if, God forgive me, Beaden's assistant. No wonder you are not under protocol for the welcome of Russian President Medvedev, because he understood the former defence minister, and now a person as president of Serbia, that he cannot provide both Medvedeva and you. Who will again protect the shahts and not because of the Russian president, who doesn't need protection from the Serb people who respect him and feel like their own? You... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28132	Time, thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28133	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, to the Law on the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, we have submitted an amendment to Article 1 where we are asking for the words "mutual" to be added to the words "peace and humanitarian". Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Army and other forces elected can participate in multinational operations beyond Serbia's borders only if these are peace or humanitarian operations organised with respect to the UN Charter and international law, based on a decision by the UN Security Council, bilateral and multilateral contracts of the Republic of Serbia with other countries in the area of security, defence and military co-operation. We are today in a neutral military sense independent. What are you doing with this law? We thought that before this law, you would propose a law on the abolition of all NGOs, and today there are 15,000 that are destroying and destroying Serbia's security, destroying families and draining the economic power of citizens and Serbia as a whole. Will you seek compensation from the NATO Alliance for the destruction and bombing of Serbia? You will not make your way to European integration with this law. Do you know what the ultimate goal of these forces is? Do you know? It is that America today, with its forces and NATO alliances, is mainly causing a crisis in some area, and then sending NATO multinational forces to allegedly take down that hotspot. Should our soldiers go to Afghanistan tomorrow, Chechnya, Ukraine or do God not to Russia to protect the interests of these multinational forces, which have not brought good to anyone but evil? You can see that most of the time they're protecting the mineral wealth that they're supposed to serve in America and their allies. Protect yourself and the roads of drugs where these forces take great wealth. We are against sending our troops to such areas. This way you want to arrange something that... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... which is very dangerous... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28134	Your parliamentary group only has a minute left, if you spend it, then there's nothing left for the parliamentary group. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radeta. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28135	The bill of law with such a concise title on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia for its own sake, I would say, the dangers and necessity to be absolutely in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which in this case does not allow any improvisation and everything provided for in this area must be in accordance with the Constitution and must be contained in the text of the law itself. For this reason, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have proposed that Article 2 be deleted, which says that everything that is not directly governed by this law is subject to the rules on defence, civil protection and the Serbian Army and the concluded international contract in the area of security, defence and military co-operation, as well as the regulations governing the jurisdiction and work of other defence forces. So this whole attitude has to be deleted, and it is particularly unacceptable to remain this part that says - the concluded international contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, concluded international contracts do not oblige anyone. Each of the ministers can leave, as they mostly travel around the white world, conclude some kind of contract and call for such a concluded international contract. The international contract is only applicable in the territory of the Serbian state if it is only ratified in the National Assembly. It is simply amazing that the government did not accept at least that part of the amendment, to make it clear that this area, like all others, could only apply ratified international contracts. Such a left-over formulation and this stance is completely ignored by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says these jobs must be exclusively in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is not the only member who opposes the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I expect no difficulty from the government's representatives, nor from the parliamentary majority, but we want the citizens of Serbia to know that you are violating the constitution from law to law, and that it will all one day be fought over by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28136	Time has been spent for a parliamentary group. Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28137	I'd just like to keep going, because I think the bill promoter is in big trouble, because he's mischosen the constitutional basis for passing this law. Article 97(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia regulates that the area of defence and security is regulated by law. For the matter of this law, however, it is a much more important article of 140. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which defines that the Serbian Army can be used outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia only after the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This provision can be interpreted as a technical norm that allows our army to be found abroad, but a valuable court – when, why, it is left to the National Assembly. You have not used this constitutional basis. You only used the one that regulates the defence and security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens and then you see for yourself that you are in trouble. Why the trouble? I don't know why with the position of defence and security this law would be particularly regulated in relation to the general regulations on the military and security. Does this law speak of the greater humanitarian significance of the army of regular importance that our army has? It's just amazing. But if someone wanted this law to define our will to participate in peacekeeping missions abroad, then it had to be done in a different way – to potentiate the obligation of the UN Charter, Chapter 7, which is bound by all states, the exception is that a country can be free of obligations and that is where our political commitment to the UN Charter principles is expressed. Unfortunately, we have to realize that more peacekeeping missions are not like those in the '60s. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28138	Both MPs Bozidar Delic and Mico Rogovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28139	First of all, let me ask you how much time left to discuss these points?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28140	You have 12 minutes and 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28141	How much time does it have, not MP groups, but total time?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28142	There are 186 minutes left for all amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28143	Thank you. The SNS parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 2 and all other amendments related to this topic differ largely in terms of understanding the importance of the use of our armed forces, not only the military, but the armed forces in multinational operations. The date of application of this law ceases to apply to the old Law on the participation of the military in peace operations. The participation of the Serbian Army and other forces, i.e. Serbia's armed forces in multinational operations. I'm taking the opportunity, Mr. Minister, to ask you what multinational operations in the world you know that are not under the U.S. and NATO alliance? The amendments to this bill ask that multinational operations be reduced to peacekeeping missions, operations, to participation in peacekeeping missions, and not as some said participation in NATO operations should be added, and only the experience of multinational operations suggests that such operations are mainly organised by NATO? Does this mean that perhaps we in the region, say, with BiH, will make some bilateral agreement and have a share in joint operations, if it is not under NATO and US leadership, or, say, with Montenegro to protect against potentially global climate change, and that, in this respect, we do not have the fact that Durmitor is an obstacle to Serbia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28144	Mr. Sutanovac has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28145	Since you asked me directly, and I can see that you do not know, I will tell you that the EU has two military missions in Somalia and Bosnia that are not under NATO. Also, the EU has nine other missions that are also civil-military, so don't have a dilemma that there are missions, I don't want to list you, there's a lot of it, but just that you're mistaken. I don't know what you have against BiH. I want to inform you that today, the Serbian Army, or the Ministry of Defence, or the Military Academy, is training officers of the BiH Army, as well as officers of Montenegro. We are happy to have the opportunity to work with everyone in the region and if there is a need, desire and support for Parliament, we will certainly participate in multinational and peace operations, along with our colleagues from the region. What you said, I don't want to take it negative. I can see that there's one dose of misunderstanding in some part of it and ignorance, but there's no need for a dose of fear, because we're really not doing anything that hasn't already been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28146	Mr. Rogovicu, what is the basis for the announcement? Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28147	Mr. Minister, I have nothing against BiH, I have trained with their students, as you said yesterday - cadets, and the word cadet will only have meaning when this law is passed, and not before, as you say, not against the students of Montenegro. I'm just quoting it as an example. Now you're using the term of multinational peace operation. In the bill there are multinational operations and only talk about multinational operations. The main remark is the lack of this content of "peaceful", no matter how you comment or do not listen to someone's ignorance. I'm just trying to point out that multinational operations aren't what you said, under the auspices of the EU, they're peace operations, not multinational operations, and that's the difference between what you and I are saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28148	Mr. Sutanovac has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28149	Unfortunately, you don't want to hear me. That's not true. Multi-national operations have a concrete EU as well. I told you there are two EU units involved. As you know, the European Security System is planning to join on stronger grounds, and as you know, the majority opinion and desire of Serbian citizens, as I have heard, and your party, is that we are going towards European integration, so I think you should also support that without any problems. I repeat, we have no problem in the defence system with co-operation in the region, we train officers from both Macedonia and Montenegro and BiH, we want to participate together one day in multinational operations, I am sure there will be a wish on the other. I am convinced that if you have ever heard the statement made by President Putin, when he said after the situation in Beslan, where a large number of women and children died, that he would protect his country's interests, and citizens wherever they were threatened in the world, and I am convinced that you had an understanding of that statement and that you should have understanding that we too will protect Serbia's interests, both our countries and our citizens, wherever you were threatened in the world. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: Then head straight for Kosovo.) When you come back.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28150	The People's MP, Ms. Aleksandra Jankovic, has submitted to the 2nd amendment, which wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28151	Minister, you're not in the pub, yet you're in the National Assembly. Break crystal glasses in the pub, and here listen to what the messengers tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28152	I would really like to ask that we pay close attention to each other and to the minister, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28153	You know how, so far I've been thinking... The minister is running around every time one of us talks, he's running around talking about NATO aggression, and I don't know if a man has any kind of disorder or what it's all about. What I started to talk about is that Russian President Medvedev will not need any special security because the Serbian people see him as their own, as well as you, Mr Sutanovac, sees him as someone else's. St. Vladika Nikolaj once said – and vo was born in Serbia, so he is not a Serb. So, heart is not something that is acquired by heritage, it is done, and it is not done by making your people crazy and explaining to them why it should be servile. Serbia must not be an island in NATO. It will be hard to sell to a Serbian people who appreciate their freedom, as a direct gift from God, and not from such some purse-fat characters, whose time, believe me, expires. The president of your party is driving you out of the lodge among the people, but there is no room in the stands for so much security and the scroll that feeds your arrogance. Not just these days, but otherwise, you're also irritated by the MPs and the people because you're often pretentious and arrogant, which is usually consistent with low cognitive potentials. And you're unprepared for any criticism, which is evident in the case of General Ponos.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28154	Mrs. Jankovic, I really ask you to respect the minister. Cross the tolerance line the way your comments and the contents of what you are saying. Mr. Sutanovac has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28155	Madam President, I am indeed a government official and an official, and I went to Parliament to defend the laws and attitudes of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but I did not come here to pass the chicane of which, who cannot find themselves outside this assembly, who are saying anything about me and my family. Please, if you can't protect me, tell me to leave this room, and you're having a debate the way you think it's necessary. The way Mrs. Jankovic talks to me is unacceptable absolutely. I never asked the lady about her family condition, I never asked her who she was in this world, nor was I interested, I didn't ask her about her family tragedy, as she tries to impose my family's theme every day in this House. I respect absolutely all the MPs here, from day one I sit all the time, standing there talking, standing there talking about NATO bombing, unlike those who talk about NATO bombing, and not standing when they talk about these victims. I absolutely respect you all and ask you to treat me the same way, at least to my family, if you can't treat me. I can take all the insults. The fact is that the objections in these laws are not adequate and high-quality. What you want to pet me personally is not my problem, but don't mention family to me here anymore, please. Really, it's something I can't, and I don't want to put up with. In that I tell you something, if you think there are Serbs bigger or smaller, you're wrong. In this room, no one likes Serbia more than I do. I'm not saying that I love her more than you do, I simply don't allow you to be the one to talk to me about Serbia and Serbs, me, father of two Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28156	Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28157	I have to use the line for the replica. Mr. Sutanovac, let me know when I mention your family, unless General Ponos is your family. What family? What family are you talking about? I just said that the spirituality and belonging of a nation cannot be acquired by birth itself, but that must be the case. If you were the father of two Serbs, it's very nice and I'm glad that's the case, I want all the best for your family. I'm not so lucky to be the mother of two Serbs or two Serbian women, but that's why these young people, and especially these young people who are nationalally conscious and inspired, I'm experiencing as my children and I'm struggling never to get into a situation to fight for the interests of some NATO, for your interests, for the interests of people who will make money on them on various battlefields around this planet, that is, my personal commitment and my family commitment. Yeah, I live alone, if that's what you're interested in. I never mentioned your family, nor was it my intention. I will continue to talk about the amendment and about General Ponos, because I see you have a serious problem to tolerate any frustration, and the frustration was that General Ponos said at one point that this country has no defence strategy. You never forgave him. Now you just don't know what to do with him and he's going to go to the Foreign Office. You did not forgive Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic for being against sending our troops to Georgia, so he is the one who will welcome President Medvedev, and you are not. So you can't, however, at a time when Russian President Dmitri Medvedev is suspending co-operation with NATO because of military exercises at Russia's border and when in Georgia itself, he doesn't know the political weight of Michael Sakashvili's regime, so our minister of military, Serbian minister, is impertinent to annul the decision of all democratic institutions of Serbia and to voluntarily send our soldiers to help NATO the pact and dictator Sakashvili. In addition, it is known that the foreign minister has just sent a letter to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic asking him to propose to the foreign ministry to change the decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in NATO's exercise in Georgia. And of course there's been a conflict, because you can't handle any constructive criticism. But, Mr. Sutanovac, not all of you are so bad, despite the fact that you are NATO's chief lobbyist. Yesterday, you gave a smile to the great majority of the people in Serbia, because by yesterday, we thought that every production had stopped in Serbia. And we learned from you yesterday that in Serbia production has only just begun. We make officers and ministers, though. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28158	Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Budimirovic and Dragan Colic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Cholic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28159	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Forwards Serbia-SNS, Ms. MP Jelena Budimirovic and I have submitted an amendment asking that in Article 2(2) of the word "multinational operations" be replaced by the words "peace operations", which is also the essence of this law and which is being broken in the debate so far, and I believe that we will only talk about those two words most later. It's like someone wanted to throw a bone in front of us. You now sit there calmly, slowly sink into some thinking, and we MPs will tear ourselves apart, preventing any far-reaching consequences, if we allow the possibility of improvising, or not identifying the precise definition of Articles 2 and all the other members. The fact is that you don't force Serbian soldiers to go somewhere else. The fact and argument is that they decide for themselves. But what is this motivation that makes them say goodbye to their family? We all have family, we all have kids, to say goodbye to our son or daughter so he can say, "Dad goes..." And will he return, and who can guarantee that he will return? Do these countries agree that members of our army under the Serb coat of arms of Nemanjic come to that country? What kind of motivation is that, apart from the lack of possibilities for existence, economic crisis, social misery? If anyone wants to go and possibly, not give a god, a disgraced Serbian coat of arms, let them go to the Foreign Legion. What is this love for Africa, Afghanistan, Iraq, Somalia, Vietnam or don't know what? What makes you do that? What do you need this for? The people cannot be a sacrifice for the divine elite, creating an illusion, an illusion of the power that the enslaved provide to those who enslaved them. The economy doesn't know the boundaries, we don't talk against America. We're going to trade with America, we're going to trade with Russia, there's no emotion, but multinational forces are also forces that bombed Serbia, which killed the Serb people. That's what scares us, that's what makes us suspect. I want the minister of the military in line with the best military ministers. That's what I want for you, Mr. Shutanovac. I want our army to be strong, to be a pillar of power to defend its country, which is the most honorable role. And your human policy, imagine generals who are learning about theory, and about war, they have no idea. But, well, it happened, there was a war, so the generals were at war, so they came out of war enriched with new experiences, new knowledge. Now, the ones who learned, who know, they need to get away from 45, 50 years old, there's been stories about it, I don't want to take up time. Here's an example of Mr. Delic - what was he in the way of and his experience? Now they can respect generations and learn younger officers. Mr. Minister, now people who deal with buying old iron buy old pots, pots, umbrellas, etc. say tanks T34 buy in old iron. There are them with me in Smederev, I am a messenger from Smeder, to cry to God, two hundred tanks, standing, rusting, and I do not believe that we are a great force. Everyone else around us is arming themselves, and it's like someone wants to make our defense powers look like nothing. In the end, Mr. Minister, in a series of very beautiful names that have enveloped and perpetuated the history of the Serbian people: Radomir Putnik, Stepa Stepanovic. , Petar Bojovic, Vojvoda Misic, Dragan Sutanovac – what is not related in this series, Mr Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28160	Mr. Sutanovac, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28161	If I were to tell you who the Messenger was, where you are sitting now, and to ask you, what is not related, it would be clear to you. Since you're talking about Smederev today, and you say that's where the T34 tanks lie, 34 years of production, model 34. [[Applause]] And if you think that in the 21st century, at the beginning of the first decade, T34 can be engaged as a modern combatant, Mr. Colic, for you both, the Duke of Traveller and Zivojin Mišic are not contemporaries of the last century, but modern compared to you two centuries. I'm sorry it's like that. Laugh, laugh, and it is. Indeed, T34, good for you! What you didn't say, and the fact is, you didn't say that all the countries of the world that have a serious army are involved in multinational operations. You're asking, why us? Answer me why Russia, why America, why China? Give me any country you think is friendly - Romania, Slovakia? For what? You want me to list who is with us in the countries of Chad - Austria, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Croatia, Equatorial, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gabon, Ghana, Ireland, Jordan, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Rwanda, etc. This is simply the modern flow of modern nations that we belonged to at the end of the last century in the '80s. What you're talking about here today, it's not even the last century, it's the last century. A time that's been a long time for us. These laws are not done for Zivojin Music or the Duke of Travelers, there are laws for some new children, for some new officers, for new generals, with all due respect to those who were once in the Army, simple time has passed, and we cannot only call ourselves to the minds of those who were before us for centuries. I listened four centuries ago yesterday before today. I am convinced that there are enough smart men among you for today's life, because if the last one was the Duke of Traveler, there is no salvation for the Serbian people. You claim it, and I say it's not. Even among you there are enough smart ones, if you don't see them, I see them here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28162	Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28163	It's a business thing. Mrs. Dejanovic, the minister insults the dignity of the National Assembly, and you smile kindly. You know, the minister can't say that there are even smart ones among us. It's an insult to the entire Parliament, an insult to our parliamentary group, it doesn't make sense! The MP can compare the minister to the ministers who were before him. The minister can't insult an MP. Either teach Mr. Sutanovac what the National Assembly is or tell him the Prime Minister is sending someone else to explain the law. After all, as Mr. Sutanovac understands, this law could defend anyone, just as anyone here does, so it defends any law. I do not allow a minister here to say that there are smart ones among us. I'd ask him to single out those who aren't smart, so we know what his judgment is. It's on the verge of conflict, it's on the verge of insulting this man now that I can only answer him and show him that we can defend ourselves. Either you defend us, Mrs Dejanovic, or there is nothing from this Assembly if every minister here can come and insult us, and you can smile, and even if you respond in that tone, you have a custom, and you, however, have been chosen by the people, and I do not want to debate with you. But he who has been chosen by the messengers cannot separate the messengers here from those who have chosen him and those who have not chosen him, for now it is to God who has chosen him, and it is not wise that those who have not chosen him. Please, there are several ministers here who are terribly insulting us. This minister here thinks his 120 kilos is the strongest in the world. So tell him it's not yet defined, which is the ideal weight for a man of his height. I think there's too much weight in places he doesn't need. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28164	I ask all participants in the debate to take care of dignity. Until the end you were a model that it was possible, and in the end you spoke in your own style. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Zoran Nikolic. Mr. Shormaz wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28165	Two minutes of amendment and as an authorised representative. The DSS, of course, as always, will be dignified and, of course, that I will speak with argument. Here is an amendment that the government has refused, which I will now explain, which should not have refused, if we intend to do what most MPs here have been talking about for days, and also the minister, among other things. I repeat, we from the DSS have nothing against the participation of members of the Republic of Serbia, the police, health workers, etc., in peace operations and multinational operations, we don't mind our soldiers being able to help friends of the Greeks during the fires, as Russian Canadians helped us when the fires were strong here. On such occasions, the Serbian Army should participate and, of course, should represent Serbia in a certain way, and not only athletes in a good way, or those from the executive government, very often, in a bad way, as President Tadic has already talked about it here, in the last UN Assembly in a very bad way, he presented Serbia and the Serbian state, speaking of it, in a joke, as he was the only elected president of Serbia at large. I'll remind you, it's not the right way. So, the soldiers, so far, are doing it the right way, the president of Serbia doesn't. First, it was told to the entire world in the UN Assembly that criminals are elected presidents in Serbia, in this way he spoke about his country. Secondly, he said something not true: Slobodan Milosevic died in The Hague tribunal, never convicted of anything. Gentlemen of the Socialists, I must defend the previous two presidents from your coalition partner; Milan Milutinovic has been released and has not been convicted of anything and here he is in Belgrade as former president of Serbia. A joke or not, that is not how Serbia is represented. I purposely made an introduction this way to understand how we advocate that the Army of Serbia, the police and everyone else participate in these operations. Never within the framework of a NATO pact operation! It's all right, Sierra Leone, Congo, and everything you've listed, ministers, about Chad, that's what we've talked about here in the Assembly, as well as the countries that participate there, but we went there wrong, we went as part of the contingent of the NATO Pact Member State - Norway. And that's what's wrong. Why didn't we go to Russia's contingent? She didn't bomb us, she never committed aggression on Serbia. We wait two days for the president of Russia, marking Belgrade's Day of Liberation in World War II. So there is no day, there is no example that Russia, for example, has committed aggression. Neither is China, nor is India, no one, no NATO pact is. And speaking of criminal aggression, we have submitted an amendment to Article 2(1), and here's what it says in Article 1(2), I will remind you that this article reads: "Multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as multinational operations), within the meaning of this law, cover missions and tasks in the preservation of national, regional and global security and peace in the world, and that: 1) World peace-keeping, maintenance and building operations;" – it is not disputed; "2) conflict prevention and peace-building operations;" – dispute. With the amendment, we propose to place a decimal behind the words "resecting peace" and to stand for the formulation -- "with the agreement of the state to which the Serbian Army is referred". It would be good if you would accept this amendment, so we don't go to a simple revote. Your explanation for why this amendment was rejected says: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed solution is in line with the obligation to conclude an international contract for each peacekeeping mission, which regulates the issues of its organisation and how it is implemented. “ True, but now I'm going to ask you, isn’t this where we are presented that the peace operation, the humanitarian operation - is the bombing of Serbia? Serbia has never given consent to this, not even the UN, nor the Security Council, and we are bombed, civilian targets have been destroyed, we have two and a half thousand victims. What about Afghanistan? It is an official UN mission, and these amendment proposals that talk about it -- in the organisation of the UN, I give an example that it is not good either, perhaps MPs did not get a good look at it, the UN-organised mission in Afghanistan, and it is called ISAF led by the NATO Pact, but Afghanistan never gave for this agreement, never as a state. And then the government in Afghanistan never agreed to that. And that mission is gone. That's why I say this formulation is necessary. Let them say the countries in which they are going that they really need help. We have many examples of countries agreeing to come on these missions and then we send our soldiers to help them, not if they disagree. Afghanistan is the best example. In the debate, we had MPs who said "Well, Mr. Shormaz, it's hard to go to Afghanistan, but perhaps as a member of the NATO Pact, when we send some soldiers there, we will have some economic benefit. “ First, the army of Serbia is not a mercenaries' army, and it will never be. We have no reason to participate in this way and with such thinking. Those who advocate Serbia's entry into NATO have only that argument and nothing more, no other argument has. That is why a referendum should be called, of course, in addition to the elections, because this is the most incompetent government in Serbia's history and that citizens make themselves known. This is why Afghanistan is a good example and why this amendment must be accepted. It's true it's a UN mission, but look what happens there every day. Not to repeat that story about 93% of the world's total heroin production is being produced in Afghanistan. What about the corrupt government over there? Why does it allow imports of chemical products produced by no one in Afghanistan to make opium heroin? And who controls that authority in Afghanistan, by the way, the state that first recognised Kosovo as independent? They even ran to confess before the U.S. Oh, I repeat, mission of the UN. Look what's going on these days. The Taliban can't do anything. There are 70,000 soldiers, and there's nothing I can do. The situation is getting worse. What I'm saying, it's said in the public of the United States, it's not disputed. The president, the newly-rewarded Nobel Prize winner of the United States, Mr Obama, with nothing deserved Nobel Prize, this is a preventive Nobel Prize, given ahead for something he should do based on election promises, and it is a new world, indeed, and a new situation, and it has neither closed Guantanamo, and it has promised, it has not pulled soldiers from Iraq, and it has promised, it has not withdrawn soldiers from Afghanistan, and it has promised. There is no peace in the world yet, but also debates Iran. I'll tell you one more thing, Iran is another country in the world on natural gas reserves. Second, and then I'm talking about "Nabuk" here, are these pressures on Iran about it? I'll remind you that for Iraq, too, he's been said to have weapons of mass destruction, and in the end it turns out to be gone. Blair is no longer the Prime Minister in England, but the new one, who is making a decision these days to send another 500 troops to Afghanistan, although the public in England, the UK, is against, is demanding that the soldiers withdraw. But he knows he's already lost his next election, so he shows the way he treats the big boss, Uncle Sam from Washington, and he sends him extra soldiers to help. At the same time, look at this, I repeat, it's a UN mission, the commander of the Afghan army is General Stanley McCristal, he has 70,000 soldiers at his disposal. He has just applied to President Obama for an increase of 40,000 troops. But beware, to whom he has made a request – Obama! President of the United States. He hasn't spoken to Ban Ki Moon. He hasn't spoken to the UN. No, he spoke directly to the President of the United States. It tells you how much this mission has nothing to do with the UN, but it's simply a moment used and that terrorist attack to do what was done, and now it takes someone's children to be sent to those 40,000 extra soldiers, you'll see they'll have to send in that quota when a decision is made, because Obama has promised to cut the number of American soldiers. You will see that the Romanian neighbours will have to send, that Bulgarian neighbours will have to send, and the Croat neighbours are already sending more soldiers there, so when they return the tin crates, because they use the method of attack from the people, no one can see them, there they are, in the people, and no one discovers them. And the soldier doesn't know when he sees a child, a woman, or a man if he's gonna get shot at or not. These are the reasons, this is the best possible example, which is why Serbia should be a military neutral state. There are so many good examples, we cited both Austria and Ireland and Sweden and Finland, in both strategies nowhere to be worked out and there is no mention of this principle of military neutrality, in either the National Security Strategy or the Defence Strategy, and NATO is not mentioned how many sentences, countless. Serbia must work seriously first, it must prepare itself seriously for the situation to be a military neutral state. It's possible and it needs to be done. I welcome this guy's statements, but I cannot welcome a statement from a guy like the President of the Republic when he watched that good military exercise that the Serbian Army did, because it is known that the statement was sent only to voters, says man - we have made a decision on military neutrality, and in the same sentence, and these days we have made a decision to send an ambassador to the NATO Mission. So, gentlemen of the DS voters, who are for military neutrality, we are also for military neutrality, but to hear that we're sending an ambassador to the NATO mission, because we haven't explained what that means. And that means co-operation only through the Partnership for Peace project and nothing more, not membership in the NATO Pact. So you wouldn't happen to remember those from G17 plus, SPO, LDP to take away your electoral body. You can't sit there and you can't be a grandmother and a girl, you can't sit on two chairs! A military neutral state must be, the people must declare it. It is not true that only the NATO Pact can invite us to be a member, but we too can express our desire as a state to be a member of the NATO Pact. It's true they didn't invite us, but it's not true that we didn't say we weren't going to be a member of the NATO Pact. That's why we need a referendum. And please, this amendment is passed because of what I've said, because if we really want to participate in the peace-building missions, not the 'imposing' of peace, by someone's will, we believe that this amendment should be accepted and that it is necessary for the state in which we send our soldiers to help them to be agreed that we send soldiers to help them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28166	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Veroljub Arsic and Otto Kishmarton together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28167	Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when reading this explanation given for not accepting this amendment, it could absolutely stand as an explanation for this proposal by the Government for Article 3(1). It's particularly problematic this third point, which wants to push itself here to be the principle of sending our forces into multinational operations. I'll just read it. In 3) it says -- the activities of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in connection with participation in multinational operations in the public are objectively represented. So far, the participation of our soldiers in any multinational operation that had a peace character has been objectively presented and there has been no problem with that, but the problem could certainly be if our soldiers were sent to other operations. Mr. Minister, the SNS has given a large number of amendments, however, the essence of all these amendments can be reduced to several things. First, this law on multinational operations changes the previous law on peace operations. When you say peace operation, it's immediately clear the essence of the operation, but when you say multinational surgery, the essence of the operation is not clear. Every peace operation in which we participated, almost every single person in the world, was multinational, but every multinational operation, Mr. Minister, doesn't have to be a peace operation. Our objections relate to Article 1 and to Article 2. The previous law mentions the UN in one place. One of the objections to this law is that in it, in the complete set, the UN was not mentioned anywhere, and we believe that this should have been done primarily in Article 1. And it is controversial, as Mr. Shormaz said, and Article 2, because Article 2 can see the essence of the operations in which our forces will participate. Mr. Minister, you gave an interview on the Time list on 1 October. When you spoke of this law, you said: 'We propose a law on multinational operations', and then you said it was a modern law, a new law and allows Serbia to take adequate participation in peace operations. Everything you said about that law is perfectly fine, I would agree with you. On the next page, however, you are saying that you are sorry that the decision on the participation of our members in the Mission in Afghanistan was not realized in 2003. Now, that's what, Mr. Minister, which is problematic, which undermines what you said on the last page. In 2003, the then prime minister, Mr. Zivkovic, in America promised 800 soldiers to participate in combat operations in Afghanistan. I, Mr. Minister, was still in place... (Minister Dragan Sutanovac, from place: Read everything. )......................................................................................................... Here, I'll read it. So, "I'm sorry that decision wasn't made"... No, we were talking about 2006. (Minister Dragan Sutanovac, from the post: It. ) He says: "When the government of Vojislav Kostunica made the decision to participate in the operation with the sanity team. '" (Minister Dragan Sutanovac, from the place: That's true. ) And then you say, "I am sorry that this decision has not been implemented, as I am sorry that no decision on the participation of our members in the 2003 Mission in Afghanistan, when then Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic suggested. '"You want me to move on? (Minister Dragan Sutanovac, from the post: You have denied yourself. No, I was involved... (President: Please do not have a dialogue. Mr. Minister, just by mentioning in 2003, when we were asked to participate in the battle mission and to battle missions of the most difficult character "search and destroy", it was time, you remember, Tora Bora, the most difficult fighting, that was at a time when Americans invented a special bomb of 16 tons to destroy the Taliban in those tunnels that were on that mountain. And if you say you're sorry about that, then that in me causes doubt about the character of the operations our army would participate in. If in this law you would only change the name and certain things of Article 2 then this law would be acceptable, because in a professional sense, it absolutely solves all the things that need to be solved so that our soldiers could be referred, but, as we say, only to "Peace missions". If we'd like to go to small things, Mr. Minister, you can see in the front row of the first member that the lecturer didn't bother very much about this law. I would never write that this law "edits use and preparation" but, "preparation and use" of the military. And in the congregation when the law comes, however, it must be absolutely and in a lecturing sense completely arranged. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28168	Just tell me, did you speak from the time of the authorized representative or the parliamentary group, Mr. Delic. As a representative, okay. Mr. Sutanovac has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28169	It is simply that we have given little freedom to Parliament to decide on what multinational operations we will participate in. We speak and speak, all the time that it's necessary to put, exclusively and only, that they be peaceful. What happens in a situation where in our brotherly Greece or Russia there's a fire that we can help put out? How are we going to hire our units to do that if you insist on being here in peace operations, and operations help the civilian population, or fire extinguishing, are humanitarian. So we would, in practice, close ourselves to the possibility of participation. You were just reading my interview, I intervened, I apologized, really, because you read the partial. It's just that I'm sorry that Mr. Kostunica's government decision hasn't been realised. It's the only decision that ever existed. There were no other decisions. I don't blame anyone, really, that he doesn't see beyond his finger. I believe and say, I consider the same thing, politically speaking, as he said, I say again, and President Putin and President Bush – take which one of you answers. Serbia's interests should be protected wherever they are threatened, in the way we think, or you, as parliamentarians, are most appropriate. We're gonna make a proposal, like we did this one, and you're gonna adopt it or not. Unfortunately, as you said, the mission to Afghanistan is the UN Mission, and it has an EU mission, tomorrow could be humanitarian missions that are neither the UN nor the EU, but some bilateral ones. There's a wide range of activities that our army can have and we don't need to narrow down. On the other hand, I need to tell you one more thing very important, nobody goes into a peace operation by being forced into it. That's the first thing. No recruit goes into a multinational operation but exclusively one professional member of the Serbian Army. When you talk about kids, you mean kids at school, kids in high school, but professional members of the Serbian Army are not children. Kids are as much like you kids are your parents. This story that honors someone who sends our children somewhere, first, no one will send them, will go voluntarily. Second, our children can be my age, even a few years older than me. So that the flossula that the citizens of Serbia need to worry about the future of our children cannot stand and do not stand. Thirdly, about my opinion of apropo Afghan, I'll tell you, friendship is one category when you express emotion in which you don't have to have an interest, and that other side has to have an interest. The position in which we – Government, I hope, as MPs, means that you must first and foremost deal with the interests of Serbian citizens. Your job is to protect the interests of Serbian and Serbian citizens. I was an MP, too, for seven years. And friendship after that, if interest and friendship fits together, it's a great formula. And the people didn't just choose us for friendship, and you didn't choose me to be in the position I was in. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28170	The right to replica has only Mr Delic, and the others reported, Mrs Šormaz and Markicevic, can within the time available to them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28171	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have not written these amendments because we do not see beyond the finger, but we have written them precisely because we see and what can be beyond the mountain. And when you're here telling us about the character of the operation, then you should have read all of our amendments. We have both in Article 1 and Article 2 of Position 1 defined what you're talking about, but we have not given our soldiers the opportunity to go anywhere except for peace operations, humanitarian operations, in operations to eliminate the consequences of natural, technical and technological, environmental accidents, and then that includes everything that you're talking about. But we mentioned the UN, which you didn't mention in your proposal. When you talk about it, then you must understand and have the essence of the Serbian Progressive Party's proposal to the whole law, and it is just aimed at the fact that there are no disputed situations. So, although the amendment is almost 40, all our objections can be reduced to three fundamental remarks and if you had adopted them then this law would not be problematic. I said it was the most problematic Article 2, because it shows the character of operations, and if you read how we proposed this Article 2 you will see that it is something more acceptable for all MPs in this room and for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28172	Mr. Dragan Shormaz has his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28173	Well, I don't know which time to repeat it, we've already had this debate once, but, here, I'll say if he wants to hear it from the minister or anyone in this room -- yes, that decision was for the Sanitary Team, right, in 2006, but that decision wasn't made until the end, like that decision by Zoran Zivkovic, you said. Never has the Prime Minister referred to Parliament, never, and you know very well why, because the final decision is that decision made by Parliament. You know what happened in 2006 -- the same Amatians cheated on us with Ahtisaari and took our country. The decision has also not been implemented, has not been made to the end, has not been sent to Parliament. Was I supposed to? Here, I'll say my opinion, I shouldn't have said it then. I don't have any problem saying that. It wasn't the only mistake of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, but for your government it was also haj: 400 euros were average salaries, and you had 300; 4.5 billion euros in one year of investment, and you couldn't add in four years three billion, please; 11 billion euros in foreign reserves; the debted state for over four billion euros, is that right, gentlemen from G17, we were together in that government? Right? It's a detached state. You're in charge every day. Don't compare yourself to your better self and call on it. That's not necessary. And if I wasn't reasoned enough before, I don't know when I should have. This is what you need to adopt. I see you kept your mouth shut, you didn't want to say anything, you told others. This amendment should be adopted, with the consent of the State to which the mission is to be sent. You adopt that amendment and nothing is disputed! And not to talk about Afghanistan, in which, for God's sake, I will end up soon, Minister, not to get tired, talk about friendship and interest, we have no interest, I purposely gave that example, the state produces and sells heroin here too. We have a problem because the biggest allies of the Albanian mafia from Kosovo, which has become the fourth mafia in power. And you know that we have a problem as a state, and you know that they threaten our safety. And you're working to weaken them. I never said you don't work, not the Army, not the police. So, it's about that, but we don't have help, we don't have what we do when we know who supports them – the one who supports that regime there. We don't even have an interest, as we have no interest in being a member of the NATO Pact, none!
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28174	Mr. Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28175	I don't know why he's so bile about a situation that's very clear. I said I was sorry that the government of Vojislav Kostunica did not implement its decision in Parliament. What's the big deal? It's just that it's true. Was it a decision? Yes, it is! Did they send men to prepare? They did! Did they disavow our partners from Norway? They did! Of these investments that you are now listing is the largest – whose? Norway. The biggest investment is Norway – "Telenor", to remind you. That's what you're counting now. There's something sold that's national good. We didn't put the UN, I repeat, as far as I know, all the parties sitting here, if anyone isn't, I apologize, are in favour of European integration. If we want to integrate into Europe, we will also have to share security challenges, risks and threats. If we're going to integrate into Europe by asking on our terms that someone only cares about us, and we don't care about others, it can't. I must say, I was the minister of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, for about a year, I think the citizens in the elections have given a final court on who was better in that government and have finally been defined in the vote for this second part of the government, and you have been told that you can no longer lead Serbia. I don't know why you're saying you were the best if you had a debacle in the election, and we were together. So if they're the best citizens don't want, I'm afraid we're in a big problem. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28176	Mr. Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28177	I didn't say we were the best, but that we were better than you and we were much better than you, that's what the results say. That's the first one. Secondly, I didn't have any bile, I just explained the situation, to whom it was clear, to whom it wasn't. Now, all of a sudden, you're denying yourself. You said you didn't need to enter the NATO Pact because of European integration. That's what you said. Now you mention again that we want to be part of European integration, and we won't... No, we will. Now you say, read in the stenogram what you said. So, gentlemen, cooperation -- yes. What does a Norwegian investment have to do with sending our soldiers into their contingent? Are you saying now that because they bought and built the Telenor company, we're supposed to send soldiers with them? Is that what you're talking about as a mercenary army again, as a fellow MP? And the cell phone thing, maybe, "Telenor." ) No, we want to co-operate with everyone, we are no one's enemy, but to be clear: military neutrality – yes, in the EU – but as an entire country, not with the Eulex Protocol, which is signed and co-operated with Eulex. That's the difference. And what the citizens said in the elections is true, but did you tell them that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement would not apply, i.e. to apply to Serbia's damage? Did you promise that to the citizens in the campaign? Did you promise the citizens in the campaign that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement would be frozen? You're not! Did you say the Trade Agreement would be frozen? No! No! Where's 300,000 employees? Where are all the investments you promised? Where are the pensions, where's 70% of the average salary? Where's "Fiat"? You promised everything and everything, you didn't keep any of it, but nothing! When you're so good, let's go to the election now. Now go to the election, let the people tell you you're good, make a government again. Did you make a government with those who said neither the military should give up when it comes to resolving the situation in Kosovo and Metohija? Yes, it is! Did anyone expect you to be with those who say so to build a government? It's not! It happened. You made the government that way and no problem. Here's the score. Serbia's citizens live every day because you didn't make the government. It's my fault, I admit I'm wrong, just like Kostunica sometimes makes mistakes, but you don't want to admit you're wrong. It's a human trait that you think you can make a mistake and forgive sometimes. It's a good human trait. But, come on, show us what you've done, call elections and a referendum on the NATO Pact, and let's see if Serbia wants a NATO pact or not, and see what the citizens tell you! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28178	Mr. Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28179	I'd like to use this announcement for a few remarks sent, first of all, to Mr. Secretary of Defense. The last time you were here in the Assembly, we were also making some laws, I think, that our military doctors were going there, so we didn't know which tribe, which territory, but I wouldn't want to talk about it right now, but to tell you that I respect you, first of all, for your function and that you realize that we honestly speak what we think. If you don't like the tone, our vocabulary and terms, it's something else. I've come to the conclusion that you're honestly thinking about what you're talking about and there's some things I need to tell you about. You know, for parents who get a 20-year-old son in a coffin, he's their kid! To be very careful in those formulations, especially you and I, Mr. Sutanovac, because when we talked there about some years, we said we didn't want our children killed, whether they were 20, 21, 22 or 23 years old, those parents who had their children in the crates know that. So, to be very careful when you speak, they are recruited. They're recruits and underage people, as far as I know. When he was 17, he was recruiting. I don't mean to say that you intended to hurt these people, but I ask you to be very careful with these formulations. Second, something you didn't answer last time. Clearly, there will always be volunteers for a good salary, it is not controversial. What you said to me, it's clear to me, that no one will be legally or by any coercion, but, I ask you, what is it, because someone voluntarily goes, say, into some neural zone, a war zone, with the safety of Serbian citizens? You haven't answered that yet, not even last time, not now. What if someone comes at 17, or a widow with a kilo of explosives and gets on a bus in a city transport in Belgrade? Then who's gonna be responsible? Then what's it worth to us that these people went there voluntarily? You didn't answer that last time, you might answer when the amendments to the VBA and VOA bill come in. If you don't answer any of these questions, I'm telling you the most honest and well-intentioned, we'll all really understand that you're using this Assembly for an internal party campaign, because you're probably a pretender to be party president or to be even the party's heir, since, as far as I know, the DS elections are in February. Please don't use this tall home, and this important Ministry of yours and your important function, and don't use these important laws for the purpose of internal struggles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28180	Mr. Vladan Batic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28181	On behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I support the bill and I think the whole debate is going in the wrong direction. This cheap patheticity and inviting cans makes no sense, and that in particular does not make sense from members of those parties whose policies, due to participation in wars where we were not involved, Serbia was indeed a country of black banners and fresh humvees, a country where children were returning in tin crates. Is it a guilty conscience, is it a subsequent mind, is it an ex post sense of responsibility, and is it a change of one of the nada and one crazy policy? I don't know what it is, but I hear the honor of the exceptions, that the most throatful of those who just belonged to that political force corps and were the extended hand of the Slobodan Milosevic regime, which has brought many children back to Serbia, indeed, in tin crates. This is something that's a European and world standard, something that's completely inappropriate and no one wants anyone's children back in tin boxes. So I think it's completely unnecessary to debate this species with a lot of pathetic and even more hypocritical. Thank you. (Dear Shormaz, from the site: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28182	You have no right to a replica. You didn't mention it either. Some others could be recognized, you could not. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm looking for a word, then, as an authorised representative. Here you go, Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28183	I'm reporting as an authorised representative. I mentioned tin crates. At the time Mr Batić was talking about together we were in the same party, he was vice president of the DSS. I know he's not thinking about us, but who's he thinking about? None of the socialists spoke. No socialist stood up, not a word he said today. I don't know who you mean. If you mean gentlemen from the SRS, as far as I know, there was little power, there were opposition before the bombing with us, Kostunica and the late Djindjic with them. Kostunica and the late Djindjic and Seselj signed an agreement on co-operation before what happened. I don't understand. None of the socialists answered. I don't know why you reacted so much. None of the Socialists have said one word, they're sitting down and they're silent, and I see you alluded to their authority at the time, and now you're signing the agreement, you're supporting the government, you're looking for Secretary Bradic's shift, and then all of a sudden you're voting for that law. Just focus a little bit, please. I was also loud, talking about tin crates. I mentioned tin crates, but I mentioned Afghanistan, I didn't mention Bosnia, I didn't mention Croatia, I didn't mention the regime of the 1990s. We don't want to go back to history, we listen to the minister. We want modern Serbia today, therefore, to let go of the time that was in the 1990s. Now we have the Army of Serbia and now we move on. We need to build a modern army, participate in international relations in the right way, as a state that has its sovereignty, not as a country of puppets with which Washington will do whatever it wants. That's what we've been saying all along.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28184	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, Mr Minister, I would like to take part in this debate through a replication of individual MPs who, in a negative context, mention the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, of course, probably the SPS, and therefore also the MPs. I ask the MPs to stop building their policies on the basis of these vain words and mentioning the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, which was 10 years ago. And at that time, our country was faced with the issue of defence and Serbia and Serbia and Serbia, and the Serbian people and its citizens. After that, those who continue to build a policy on the name of Slobodan Milosevic in a negative context today, I did not notice that they have a fruitful policy, they were mostly and remained barren today in a political way. Let them build their policies based on seeing and looking into the future, as the SPS does, which wants to integrate into international flows and wants to do well to this people and this country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28186	Mr. Vladan Batic has a word, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28187	I don't know why Mr. Shormaz felt called, probably by that folk – a man scratches where he itches. Here's a few reactions. Yes, the DHS continues to seek Mr Bradic's resignation, still seeking the resignation of Mladjan Dinkic, and a dozen reasons we have mentioned countless times and does not support the blank government. We made a coalition agreement with the DS and if you had followed closely, you would have seen how I voted for the Information Act; and whether I voted only in principle and in advance asking for my amendments to be adopted, and if I hadn't voted, since amendments to the Public Information Act were not adopted. Also, of course I don't support that policy, and I didn't, Mr. Shormaz, take pictures on that three-point cannon at the Palace, turning to Sarajevo, but Vojislav Kostunica, and that's one of the reasons why we're having a later discussion, etc. I didn't encourage the burning of the embassy at this rally last year, when a young man at the U.S. Embassy died. Of course, I believe that the Socialist Party of Serbia has transformed and is seeking its political future at the negation of the policy of Slobodan Milosevic, although some of the people from the SPS continue to take a pilgrimage under the influence of Pozarjevac, but this is your right, precisely because at least the president of your party does not go there and create a new policy you have come back to political life. And to expect that someone who spent 10 years in the squares, in the myths, on the boob of winter, on ice and snow, fighting against the evil regime of Slobodan Milosevic, now forget it, I am sorry, I can forgive, but I can't forget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28188	He mentioned Mr Kostunica in the context of facts, not insults. Mr. Dragan Shormaz has a word, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28189	I don't know if Mr. Kostunica took a picture of himself on a threesome...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28190	Just so you know, I understand that the finding refers to Mr. Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28191	No, no, he said Mr. Shormaz. Mr. Miletic, I don't know where to scratch or enter, nor mention the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, nor mention the 1990s. Your coalition partners mention it every day, whether it's from DS, here, and Mr Batic confirms it, we don't mention it. If someone first gave you a hand in Serbia after October 5th, it was the Democratic Party of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28192	Who are you replicating to?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28193	Mr. Batic. So, because of the need for national unity and for what's going on. But, Mr. Batic, I don't know that Mr. Kostunica was on the cannon, I didn't see that picture, I know that I was on a triple cannon, they were pictures and in the papers, and I was shooting as much as I could, by giving it to me, against the criminals from the NATO Pact who bombed our country unwittingly, destroying civilian targets and killing people! That's what I was doing! I've never had a cannon facing the palaces, and God forbid it is, you let it go, he said to the palaces, I'm talking about the palaces, and my cannon would not be turned towards any civilian cause. Never! I would never allow myself such a thing, and I know that the members of the Serbian Army are honorable enough and professional enough to never do so. So, you let go of those stories. I know another situation. You were the minister of the late Mr. Djindjic's government. I know he made an ox with Karadzic at the Palace. Right? It wasn't hidden at all, and it was happening. So, what?- I'm sorry. Am I supposed to accuse the DS of that? No, and it was supposed to burn it and it was supposed to be there!
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28194	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28195	I've rehearsed, so I'm probably hearing myself now. I was very worried about the minister's absence. Is he okay? Do we have any information where Minister Sutanovac is, because I was just about to talk to him? Okay. What is the fact that the minister has now explained the reasons for the adoption of this law on participation in multinational operations and said: if we want Euro-Atlantic integration – we share security challenges. So we die, and they incasate. Practically, he demonstrated what this party government has always offered us as a false dilemma, which is either economic development or protection of national interests. Our idea and our goal is to restore a strong state that implies – both economic development and protection of national interests. The question is practically – what and what economic benefit would Serbia benefit from joining NATO? The minister who said this, and those who think Serbia can't be an island in NATO, actually use it as a propaganda password, to show that there are very important economic gains, material benefits, as they say in this new Serbian-English language. NATO is a military organisation that is waging wars around the world, and wars are devastating and costing. Even so, major military forces and conquerive wars of water to provide energy and raw materials and markets for themselves. NATO supporters may think that by joining us, we will also participate in the war spoils' debut and thus achieve economic benefits. Few, healthy minds, can believe in Serbia that it will belong to Serbia. If by some miracle this were to happen, it would be an extremely immoral argument, because it implies that under the tempting phrase of economic use, there is a very vulgar motive – participation in the share of war prey of the occupied countries. In doing so, NATO supporters do not count on them to participate in NATO's war operations and to be the perpetrators. They're counting on it to be someone else, and they're gonna get these their benefits. In light of the story of peace missions, the humanitarian character of these missions, which we practically all stand for, except, of course, the minister, who wants us to participate in multinational operations...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28196	Time. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buha, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28197	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3(1) of point 3 and requested the removal of point 3 of this article. For the sake of the public, I must read the provision of point 3 in Article 3 which speaks of the basic principles on which our army will be based in multinational operations. Point 3 says "the activities of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in connection with participation in multinational operations in the public are objectively represented". I think this is a very confusing, vague, so a little bit, and a ridiculous provision by the legislator. Why is it funny to see it from the government's explanation, why the amendment is not accepted, which says, 'Amendman is not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution has been agreed with Article 30. The law on Serbia's military, which has arranged a way of informing the public about the activities of the Serbian Army, as a law establishing the obligation of the authorities of the state administration to notify the public of their work. ''Look, if in the legal system it is defined objectively, obligation, and this is also the constitutional obligation of state authorities to objectively inform the public, how can this be the principle of sending our army, etc.? Is that where your confusion arose because a year ago there was a conflict between the minister and the chief of the army? Is that why they installed this provision? Is that the basis for you to violate both the constitutional provision and the constitutional principle and make one laugh in this way? I think this is one ridiculous papaziania in law. My suggestion was to delete it. Unfortunately, you didn't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28198	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28199	Thank you. Here in Article 4, we can note, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that representatives of the Ministry of Defence are not reading the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because to read the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia would never write such nonsense. In Article 4(1), they say, "The obligations of the Republic of Serbia to conclude international agreements"... The constitution of the Republic of Serbia speaks of confirmed international contracts or ratified international contracts. Therefore, international agreements that are not ratified - are not binding. What difference can there be between a concluded and a ratified contract? The difference, some time, gentlemen from the Department of Defense, can be war. In 1992, the so-called Kuthiller Plan was accepted in Lisbon. It was accepted by Dr Radovan Karadzic, Mate Boban and Ali Izetbegovic. When Ali Izetbegovic returned to Sarajevo, after meeting with US Ambassador Cimmerman, he withdrew his signature from the document. He ordered general mobilization and the war broke out in BiH. It was a crime against peace, organised by Izetbegovic, with the US ambassador. That spitter from yesterday on the Duke of Muscle, how are you not ashamed? The Duke of Živojin Misic is, among other things, a bearer of St. George's and St. Michael's archangel, the greatest military medal of the Great Britain. This military distinction gives the holder the right to report to him as he enters the territory of Great Britain. So, the British have reported to the Duke of Živojin Mišic, and Mr Sutanovac, Mr Tadic and others are going after American and English embassies, going to London, going to Washington to report them. Think about it a little more and don't muddle the famous Dukes of World War I – the Duke of Živojin Mišić, the Duke of Ratomir Traveller. If you do not know the meaning of our tradition, restore it in our historical books. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28200	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28201	By joining NATO, Serbia will not strengthen democracy, nor will it increase the freedom of its citizens, but will practically submit to the dictatorship of US global interests both in foreign and domestic terms, Mr Sutanovac well knows. If NATO had cared about democracy, it would not have opposed a referendum in the countries it wants to expand to. It can't be called a democracy-installing puppet authorities, fostering ethnic mentality in the busy countries. Democratic potentials are nurtured only by respect and defence of the dignity of the state and the people, and NATO has waged an unfair war against Serbia, directly participated in the secession of part of its territory, contrary to international law, recognised independence of the work and still has it under its control. Given the National Assembly's resolution on neutrality, it is clear that a decision to join NATO without a referendum would be illegal and illegal. However, with NATO's attitude towards Serbia in mind, the matter of the referendum itself should be too high. Namely, NATO's war against the SRJ, or Serbia, is an aggression, an unfair and conquerive war. Given that NATO has attacked us against international law, without a UN Security Council decision and even without a decision from any official body, it has committed a war crime by international law. Given that NATO members directly participated in the crackdown of Yugoslavia, there is talk of a crime against peace. That's why NATO should answer. Instead, the minister offers peace, multinational NATO operations. Serbia would not benefit from joining NATO, but would therefore have much damage, as NATO is not expanding because of Serbia's well-being, but because of its geostrategic interests. The consequences of being involved in the world's largest military organization cannot possibly be a pacifier, but a militarization.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28202	Time. He has the word Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28203	I'm using the MP's time for amendments, and it's a good thing the minister isn't here, and there are people who have been doing this law, so I'd like to point out that it's recognizable what they wanted with this law and that there's a responsibility on them and not on the minister, because he himself admitted that he's surrounded by extremely professional people for this matter. The law is so designed to eliminate the UN and the National Assembly, to the extent possible. That is why he foresees an annual plan approved by the National Assembly and many exceptions from the Annual Plan to be decided by the Ministry, the Government and the President of the Republic on the basis of their proposal. It's interesting what exceptions are. Proposers argue that it is possible to provide for a Article 2 of this Act by the Annual Plan, but that points 2), 3 should be excluded. And 5), because they might need our strengths even though they're not scheduled for the Annual Plan, so they need to react quickly. The assembly is static, it's difficult to summon. It's the easiest thing to call the ministers and make that decision. What happens now? For point 1), which refers to post-war operations, although I don't understand how you separate the words "preservation and maintenance" of peace in the world, where you found that logical difference between those two words, but, to preserve, maintain peace in the world after war, means that peace is preserved, you're looking for the Annual Plan. And for "preventing conflict and establishing peace," that means, for war, you're not looking for an annual plan. What does it mean to establish peace? You interfere with the armed conflict that exists, whether in between tribes, states, political parties fighting in many countries around the world, it doesn't matter, but without the Annual Plan you want to participate in peace-building actions. How is peace established? By breaking up the war. That's where our volunteers, the professional members of the Army will travel. Find me an officer you'll suggest to be in those forces, and he can refuse! What's next for him? Is he waiting for the rank of Lieutenant General or Colonel General directly? Does he have any promotions ahead of him? Does he have any military careers ahead of him, if he refuses to participate in operations, and the law says that it is at his will and that he cannot be punished, nor is he particularly rewarded if he participates in these operations?- I'm sorry. Then, if the Government is given the right to direct its members, civil protection personnel, etc., in the position of the 3rd member, you say - that the Government can approve the participation of other defence forces in humanitarian operations that are not foreseen by the Annual Use Plan. Even those exceptions referred to in Article 1(2), points (2), (3). and 5). And you eliminate them by giving the government the direct right to decide without the Annual Plan on the Use of Other Defence Forces, meaning the military, past civil service, past civil protection, past the Ministry of the Interior, and why? He says – to help civilian authorities in crisis situations. What is this formulation? What does a crisis situation mean for civilian organs? For example, the Serbian Government is a civilian body, going into a crisis situation, will the people go to the streets -- will any other government under such a law, or, now, move it to another country whose government would need such help, will Serbia go to such a country, to help civilian authorities in crisis situations, to send our forces, even other defence forces? You've made this law too wide that you have no exception. It all depends on two ministers and one president of the Republic. This congregation is like a computer language, one loop, one buckle around it. Now you're telling us to pass the law, and this law says that you'll never ask us for anything again, that we'll just approve of any annual plan or not, but that it means nothing to you, because for any operation in the world that's not scheduled by the Annual Plan, you won't have to ask us. Now tell me, how can you predict the crisis in the world with your annual plan? What will be the yearly plan that you bring, say, in December 2009 and you, seem to be the smartest in the world, predict all the crisis situations, all the hotspots, all the places in the world where there could be a need for use, or it would be just an indicative annual plan – the use is approved. What if it broke out in a country where you couldn't assume there'd be needs, then the Minister and the President of the Republic got involved. This is where you mention, don't give God a fire in Russia that we'd go to put out. The minister of emergency situations in Russia has 500,000 employees in the ministry of emergency situations. After all, such situations never required approval of the National Assembly. The constitutional view that we are attached to European values does not mean that we are committed to EU membership, nor will we know that under the 'European values' we will do everything that the EU requires of us. Many European democracies that are not in the EU are attached to European values. One more thing that promotes, but not undetected, which is that we need to take care of the interests of the people. Well, we worry, each in its own way. We of the opposition think that the greatest interest of the people in Serbia today is that this government falls, and we are terribly concerned about it. You of the ruling majority think that the greatest interest in the government is to survive, and you're terribly concerned about it. Don't accuse us of having a different interest in Serbia. Because we don't care anymore about watching corrupt and criminalized ministers! We don't care anymore about killing people on the street without any sanctions or punishment! We no longer care about the government's enormous debt from day to day, we believe it is not Serbia's interest! We are no longer interested in Mladjan Dinkic being a ten-year minister, for Bozidar Djelic to be a ten-year minister! Our interest in Serbia is the one we represent here. Don't impose your interest on us, as an interest in Serbia. You have no right to do so, otherwise this would not be called democracy, then this would be a dictatorship, so the minister would come to the Assembly, as King Milan called MPs to vote the budget, and then he would return them back to his office, so the minister would come to the Assembly and say, "State and national interest is this, that and that." Whoever does not do so will be arrested and punished. But I think we're a long way from that time. And in those days, we haven't even been since the multi-party system took place in Serbia. At that time, we enter now, when all the media in Serbia are under control, when editors in charge allow board members to ask them – why did the journalist ask such a question and such a question to Tomislav Nikolic, and why did he not ask him if he was still a Chetnik duke and did he not ask him where the western borders of Serbia are?- I'm sorry. That's what he does, for instance, Mr. Krle. That's what Shule can do. And that's what Shale can do. So you have these short, short nicknames, and such enormous power. So, Mr. Minister, you've talked about everything that the Serbian Army has done over the centuries and said there's nothing to be based on, but to look into the future. Now tell me, not from the people sitting around you, but from all the officers in the Serbian Army today -- will one be remembered during your ministry?- I'm sorry. Will one enter the books as the man who trained the Army?- I'm sorry. He didn't need to fight, thank God, but he trained the Army to keep us from being attacked. That's what I expect from these officers, to have our army able to deter anyone who wants to attack us, to know that there will be losses, and I know that many of us cannot defend ourselves, only I think that foreign policy with weapons ceases to be run in the world anymore. I just know we have friends in the world and a little less friends, and you're pushing us... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28204	Your group's time is up. Thank you. Excuse me, I have to comment that your doubts about some of the Ministers' findings as well as the facts, concerns the government that this parliament has chosen and I ask you not to harm, without arguments, the reputation of the government that this Parliament has chosen. Mr. Sutanovac, come in. (National Ambassador Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I... )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28205	I did not impose in Parliament the interests represented by my political option or by the majority in this House, but by the interests each Serbian citizen had the opportunity to define in the elections. In the elections, when we ran for our system of values, with a policy in which to reach that system of values, we were very clear and precise and we said that Serbia's interest was strong, stable, democratic, well-organised state with a strong military, EU member. I thought you and that idea traveled to Ollie Rehn to confirm that Serbia's interest in being an EU member, and the information I have from Washington, where you and your vice president were, that's what you said. I think it is commendable and I think that today, if we are talking about a system of values, we should not have a dilemma about whether Serbia should be developed and strong economically, whether citizens in Serbia can live on their work or just MPs and politicians. I think we all agree that everyone should live off their work. I am also sorry that Serbia must be in debt, but I do not share my duties on the East and West. Now we all look forward to President Medvedev coming and bringing us a billion dollars to be in charge. Your criticism is also referred to this task, if I'm not mistaken, or is it only to the debt of that money that we're getting from the West? It's just not all black or white. Otherwise, I never said a single word against the glorious past of the Serbian Army or the Serbian Army. All my descendants, including myself, served the Army, some of whom were not fortunate to return home from the wars they participated in, some of whom were badly burned in churches. I have a pate for all who have died, if you haven't noticed, the first defence minister to visit major sites where Serbian citizens died, unfortunately in the Liberation Wars, where we passed the Venices and showed the pitet. It seems to me that we have never turned so much attention to this glorious past and even more glorious tradition. But in order to preserve its tradition, Serbia must be modernised. Serbia can't do the way you think it's headed in the 21st century. So it is necessary to reset, it is necessary to understand that the device that stands before you in this House, at the time when parliament was made, did not exist. Traditionally, this House raised its hand to speak, and today you have a device that allows you to speak more easily, more politely, more politely, in this House, it has never sat as you do, except for those who were prevented from getting up, it is also a Serbian tradition. With respect, he treated the ministers, the Prime Minister, the president of Serbia. Unfortunately, when you talk about the tradition of the Serbian people, politics or armies, you don't respect what the fact is. I've never called any journalists to ask you any questions or not to ask you any questions, I absolutely know all the answers to all the questions that I would ask you, and I don't need that kind of journalistic manipulation. Unfortunately, I may be one of the biggest victims of Serbian media, and today they write to the media who are under your influence that I didn't come to Užice, because we agreed to sign an agreement with local self-government, and I didn't come here because that day, at the same time, we laid flowers to King Alexander on Oplenc. It's the same fact. Believe me, if I didn't think the Serbian Army was famous, I wouldn't be doing this job. If you come, not for coffee, you can come professionally to my office, you'll see on my shelves pictures of my grandfather in the uniform of the Serb Army. If I were ashamed of the Serb army, I'd be ashamed of my graves. My graves are all in Serbia and believe me, no matter what you think and want to talk here, I will never be ashamed of our past, but I am convinced that our children will not be ashamed of the present. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28206	Thank you. Mr. Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28207	Mr. Minister, my discussion was dedicated to the law and it's quite clear that you don't know that law. And it was very serious and it's intrinsic, I think, the point of my conflict with you about this law. I don't care what you think of Serbia's history. I don't care if you've ever traveled there as a civilian on your own expense to lay your garters or waited for your official plane to drive you. I don't care about that at all. All I care about is what happens to this law that we give to the President of the Republic, the Government and the Ministers. You saw, read, somewhere in the fifth, sixth, seventh member, says – the President of the Republic decides where our forces will be directed, in accordance with the law. The law tells him that according to that law, based on several members, he does not have to decide at all in accordance with the law passed by the Assembly, but I am afraid of it. Who did we give that to? Mr. Tadic? He ruined the Army when he was Minister of Defense. To you, as minister? You yourself said you were surrounded by experts, that you weren't professional enough in that matter, but that you were a defense manager. That means that you're also going to profit from getting the state out of it. I'd like to ask you when they leave, say, our soldiers of the Norwegian battalion, so they get Norwegian uniforms, to at least approve Norway to give them their wages. You didn't approve. There in Chad, people don't recognize whether it's Norwegians or Serbs, and they see when they receive compensation at the end of the month how much the Norwegian received for it and how much he did. Why are you humiliating our people like that? That double humiliation. He's wearing someone else's uniform, and he's getting this little Serbian salary! So, I'm just asking you to take care of the vital interests of the military and the individual in the military, not to engage in big politics. This place isn't meant for high politics. This place is intended for the care of the Army, for every individual and for those you say are not children, are children. When those kids grow up, when they get married, when they have their kids, you'll realize how many kids they are. Don't harshly restrict them to 18 years of age when they stop being children. For one good parent a child never grows up enough, for one good child a parent is never too old. I don't see it that way, I look at it the way it's been looking at me in a village for centuries.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28208	Thank you. Mr. Sutanovac has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28209	That parental philosophy could stand if you were to treat other people's children politely, the way you wanted me to act. The fact is, we went to Chad by Parliament's decision. What is true, we received uniforms from colleagues from Norway, but everyone on uniform has the mark of the Serbian Army, or the flag of Serbia. In the camp where our members are located, there is a UN flag, beside which is the flag of Serbia. It's absolutely incorrect what you're saying. It's true that I didn't allow humiliation for our soldiers to be paid by anyone else, first of all. Maybe it's funny, maybe it's funny to you, but it would be a humiliation for me to have anyone besides us with the cost of our participation in a peace operation, specifically in Chad, which currently has twenty-one members of the medical team. Whether they're children or not, I said, that everyone, like you, is someone's children. I'll say in the sense that they're immature, and that was intensity, far from being immature. I believe that in a delegation currently in Chad, there are those who may be near your age. I said I don't know everything, but I have the best associates. And I'd like you to just tell me which school should end in order for a man to be a minister of defense? Which school should it end for a man to be a duke? But I must tell you that the position of the Secretary of Defense goes beyond what you're saying. The position of the defence minister isn't just a position that needs to be taken care of by the military. It's simply that narrowing down the views you have may have existed in the 14th century, but it doesn't exist today. The position of the army in society and in the world has changed dramatically since the time in which others lived. Times change. We want to keep the tradition and modernize. There are great differences in your sights and my visions. Of course we can't agree on much, but we can't disagree that today in the Army is better than it was. I'll document it for you both statistically and in any other way. I'm not going to accuse you at all, whether you were a member of the government or not. How many of this or that was in your time. I'm just telling you statistically, by all parameters, today in the Army is better than it was. It's something you can't take away from me. Whether I'm responsible or my colleagues, believe me, it's a virtue to choose good colleagues. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28210	Mrs. Hope Kolundji. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: By the Rules of Procedure, I answer for the word. How do I know you're answering the Rules of Procedure? Because you have ten minutes left, I thought you'd be speaking on behalf of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28211	This comes down to Article 27. Rules of Procedure, because it's about managing during the session, you know? First, my button here is blinking and it's turned on in the last 15 minutes. You don't notice me in those 15 minutes, you give words to other people. It's okay that you gave your word for the replicas of Minister and Mr Tomislav Nikolic, because that discussion was interesting and that's where we come in to what I've come up to intervene on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You, President, have injured the Rules of Procedure, and of course I will report for the word and for the amendment, after this, you have injured the Rules of Procedure by giving him the words from which you have sent him, from which he has come, and a stenogram will be taken, and will be seen that the MP must not attack the Government, to harm the Government. Well, the whole idea of parliamentaryism consists of opposition MPs doing as much damage to the government as possible to their statements, to attack it, and to say that it is not working well, and that perhaps, then, by its activities, by its perverse activities, it harms society. That's the position of the opposition. And you're trying to make yourself a mediator here, running a session and doing exactly the opposite to the Rules of Procedure, and you're doing damage to the reputation of this home. You shouldn't do that. And what happened after your exposure was, absolutely, denied you! We heard a very high-quality debate and MP Tomislav Nikolic, who is head of a group here in Parliament, and defence minister. Anyone who could listen to those two exhibitions, no matter what anyone thought, who among them was right about what he was saying, could hear a very, very interesting debate. Well, now listen to yourself, look at your own stenogram and see what you've been saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28212	There's no reason to blink. Corruption, the criminalisation of ministers as a qualification is something I cannot approve and I will always point out that this is not the way to characterise the government's work, even if we are in the parliamentary majority or opposition. Argumented objections to the work of any minister, even assumptions, but without terms that say that the government is corrupt, that certain ministers are corrupt and criminalised – these are terms that actually damage the reputation, not only the government, but also this home. It's the government we chose. I don't think there's any injury to the member you've called, but if you're not satisfied with my response, in the voting day, we're going to make a statement about your motion to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Hope Kolundji, he has a word. You must reapply, Mrs. Kolundjia. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic, right? Excuse me, Mrs. Kolundzija, Mr. Nikolic. No, it was a replica of your exposure, but first I'll give you my word in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28213	Mrs Djukic – Dejanovic, I have paraphrased the European Commission and the OSCE report. Why don't you warn them to destroy the government's reputation? They say we didn't fight "mit and corruption." They say the current choice of judges, the intended choice of judges, is the basis for directly affecting the judiciary, in order to protect the powerful. They made those bad findings, I just passed them on. I don't belong to a group of these young MPs who weren't involved in politics at a time when the SPS was in power, so they dare say the opposition was led by the DS, which is absolutely not true. They're led by each other, their political party, they're now looking at it, throwing it at her. Please, if the general finding given to us by those who are in charge of helping us implement democracy and to arrange the state as legal and just, if the general finding is that we haven't gone far and there are major problems, and that corruption is a big problem, I'm sorry, and who is corrupt in Serbia? The bus driver or the government? Who can be corrupt? The one on whom it depends whether a man is going to do business or not, whether he is going to be in prison or not, will he be able to express his views freely or not? So, don't, I'm sorry, I didn't take that finding of yours as evil, I'm just saying it's the easiest thing to charge me. The easiest thing for me to do is to give me sanctions and punishment and everything, but when those who decide how long we have arrived, why don't you tell them, don't ruin our reputation, isn't it? Why don't you answer at least one minister once, which he didn't tell them, here, to the European Commission, that that's not true? If we had gone far, we had not gone, Mrs Djukic – Dejanovic, thanks to this parliament. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28214	Mr. Nikolic, you're known as a man who's authentic and speaks, I mean, I didn't know you were quoting the European Commission all along. Mr. Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28215	I would most kindly ask that when you address the MPs of the people, you do so with respect, as Article 104 provides. If you don't, then you're corrupting your own function. The expression of corruption, it doesn't just mean what you thought of, probably, in the experience of your friends from your 1990s political party, when that term was obviously more commonly used in some other sense. You know, you corrupt your own function when you're not doing it properly, because you're spoiling it. "Corruption" term means "depreciation." And when you speak to the MPs, to any of us, that's why I intervene in the sense of Article 104, you are the first to respect the dignity of this house and not to put people in words that they may not have said. When you take on the role of interpreting the terms used here, then you have to take care of it, to get involved in the controversy, which is not your function.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28216	If I understand correctly, you were protecting Mr. Nikolic's interest, obviously he didn't need it. I address all MPs with enough dignity. If I've ever, at any rate, done something that seems to you or looks like everything you've been talking about, personally, I expect you to react. So I really don't have time to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. But if you want to, no, you don't want to, you're right. Mrs. Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28217	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, since the ZES parliamentary group will vote for this law, for the sake of truth, for the sake of fact, mainly because of the need for no misunderstanding in the public of what is written in this law, here are some accusations of law, which do not stand anywhere in the law. So it is said here that this law gives jurisdiction to the President of the Republic that he himself, past the National Assembly, sends our soldiers somewhere, which is completely incorrect. So Article 8(3) states: "The National Assembly decides on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations, as well as on the extension of the time of their engagement and withdrawal from the multinational operation, on the basis of the adopted Annual Use Plan." Article 4 states: "Extremely, from the provision of the position of the 3rd member, the National Assembly", therefore, no - Minister, no - president of the state, ''can, in accordance with the interests of the Republic of Serbia, approve the use and participation of a member of the Serbian Army in operations under Article 2. 2), 3) and 5). "So what it says about the President of the Republic is Article 9, which says: "The President of the Republic, based on the decision of the National Assembly, in accordance with the law... "and so on. I would only pray, if we were to talk specifically about the law, I think it's the interest of everyone to discuss what the law says and see if there are any shortcomings and possible misunderstandings, but not to invent what the law does not say. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28218	Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28219	I'm deliberately, maliciously, misread. I warned the same members, Mrs. Kolundjia, I was just looking at them from my corner. I'm not saying that you may be wrong from your angle, but I want to do it again. So, "The President of the Republic, based on the decision of the National Assembly, in accordance with the law, decides to refer members of the Serbian Army." And this law says that the President of the Republic does not have to ask the National Assembly, in the cases referred to in Article 2(2), (3) and (5)), because they are not foreseen by the Annual Plan. These are sudden occasions in which the President of the Republic decides, and the defence minister then implements the decision of the President of the Republic. Therefore, you will not invite us to a session of the National Assembly for the cases referred to in Article 2(2), (3) and (5). The law leaves it, therefore, to the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28220	Mrs. Hope Kolundji, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28221	I think it would be simple to clarify this by looking for the help of a lawyer and thinking about how a legal norm is interpreted. What you're trying to interpret as legal is completely incorrect. So that's not how the norms that are written here are interpreted, so it might be good for you to consult and, in this way, to complete a concrete controversy about this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28222	Mr Miletic Mihajlović, replica. Whose exposure, since there was more exposure?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28223	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must again react to certain findings that are heard here, and in particular this is about the finding of Mr Aligrudic, of corruption or such a qualification, which really offends the SPS of the 1990s. I would ask the MPs again, some MPs who have it in their custom, not to build any more politics on what was 10 years ago. People, aman-zaman, that's what got the sparrows tired of building a policy in a regime that was like that, that brought evil to this country and that sort of thing. Then the appointed party found it appropriate to and how to seek co-operation and support in the SPS, when the government of Vojislav Kostunica was to be formed in 2004. Then we had all the good performances that suited that stranger. I don't think such a finding is necessary and spoils some of the relationships we should be building in one positive direction, respecting each other and looking ahead. I think we're different in our own politics, but those differences shouldn't lead to us insulting each other. Please don't discuss it that way anymore. We've had our own policy, the court's been delivered to the public a long time ago. We have our own policy. Politics isn't a static thing, it's changing, it's a living matter that comes from what it is right now. Of course, we have found our way, and we do not want to insult others. And we could say about some ministers from the government of Vojislav Kostunica and how much she wrote about what she wrote about and the press, but, of course, I won't tell that story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28224	Mr. Ilic, what is the basis of your report?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28225	As an authorised representative, I have 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28226	I must give the advantage to Mr. Shormaz, who wants a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28227	I don't know why you're reacting again. I don't know if you've been in the O.R., if you've listened, discussed a term, what it means to be corrupt or a word of corruption. You have a problem with terms. No one said, nor did Mr. Aligrudic, look at the stenogram, that someone was corrupt in the 1990s, and that's not what we're getting into. I said earlier that we had given you the first hand, just in 2004, precisely because of what is called national interest, national unity in defence, above all territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia, we have always advocated it and today we stand up for it. Apparently, someone has a problem with terms. The president and Mr Aligrudic discussed it. I personally think your party president has a problem with terms. I heard him say the protocol says "administrative line with Eulex". I asked him to send me, as an MP, that's what I am now informing you, more than a month ago, an integral version of the Protocol in English. All I can say is that the press says "bondry." Who knows English, knows it's the Bondry border. What a black administrative line. Line's a line, and Bondry's a limit. Obviously, he's having trouble with the terminology. So, don't answer for what is not, no one has offended, nor have we ever referred to the politics of Slobodan Milosevic, far away, nor have we agreed with her. Kostunica beat him in the election, got 600,000 votes more than Doss. So the DOS received 600,000 votes less than Kostunica on that day, which means there are people who voted for the SPS, the SRS, the SPO in those elections or some other list, and voted for Kostunica as president of the state. So don't say some things that aren't true. Aligrudic did not accuse you of anything, but rather spoke to terminology about the confusion over terminology.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28228	Mr. Nikolic, the base of the call?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28229	The replica to Mr. Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28230	He didn't mention you at all, and he didn't act offensively.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28231	You asked him whose exposure he was replicating, and he did not answer you. I think it's my show.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28232	You've recognized yourself. You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28233	He didn't say on whose exhibit he had a replica. And since I'm the chief critic of the SPS of that time...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28234	You have no right to a replica. Mr. Ilichu, you may re-apply, to give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28235	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have been listening to this discussion for days, and I can say that I have decided not to discuss it, not to participate in any special matter, but this last one irritates me. Why is something like this happening in the Serbian Parliament? Why do you want to impose on the opposition that he cannot discuss something that is extremely important for Serbia, for me, about a law that means a lot to Serbia, for our children, for our generations to come? Why do you want to impose something on us at all costs? You are not some vast majority, who has the support of Serbian citizens, that you have the right to drag us into a story that is now in question. Of course, some MPs are trying a law that is extremely bad, and which we don't need right now, to fix the amendments, and you don't allow it. I would like to say that great powers in decision-making, on everything, are given to individuals, that we are increasingly moving away from institutions such as Parliament, to decide here, to discuss here, to hold discussions for days. You saw the other day that the Croatian Parliament discussed the conflicts of fans in Varazdin, all day long, and we have not even been informed about our young people going out and when certain similar things happen. We are acting evenly, and especially our members of the government, according to many institutions on the outside and to many politicians on the outside, who are extremely important to them, and we do not want Parliament to function in this way further. You want to transfer everything to the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic decides on the government, the impact of the ministers, the work of the ministries, which are good and how many there should be. The President of the Republic announces how many MPs it takes, that there are many of us, that the number of MPs should be reduced, etc. Every morning when he wakes up, he turns out to be the father of the nation what the people should think on that day – to forget how to pay for electricity, how to find a job, how to survive, how to survive. There's been a campaign these days that record productions are in agriculture. Well, she was born age, but the peasants have failed in the most natural year of the last 20 years. Why? The ransom prices, they're all ruined and ruined! The president of the Republic speaks to the nation yesterday, urging Serbian citizens to raise awareness of the organs. That's very important, because he's the one who made his legacy, and some others have made a legacy. Then the press starts, invites us, asks if you support it. Please, let him do whatever he wants, that's his problem, make sure he makes whatever he wants, but let Parliament do its job. This is where the ministers come in and start arguing with the MPs. They start a fight with the MPs. Few more ministers will come here with their security detail to beat up the MPs and kick them out of the O.R. And it happened, though, that the MPs were expelled from the O.R. This is Parliament, big decisions are made here, decisions are made here on very important matters and important laws for Serbia. And let go of the argument, have patience. Every minister must have enough patience to listen to critics, not to go straight to privacy. So if I start to discuss and say -- there's no means for the military, what is the state of the technique in the military, why is such a fight among the generals, why are there so many conflicts among ministers, why are such conflicts among people at the General Staff?- I'm sorry. We can no longer look to the collapse of an institution in which the people invested the most trust, it was the Army, as well as the church to collapse. Now Tadic has his bishops who lead with him, his men dignitaries of the church. The others are opponents. Then there's the conflict. You also have your generals tow, tow, to find places. Now, of course, the minister doesn't want a general, and the other one does. What are we gonna do with him? This guy wants to work there, they won't let him, this guy wants to resign. So, guys, is that a normal state? I'm talking about something that is extremely important to Serbia. My soul hurts when I see what's going on in the Army. We can't fight over the media. The breaking news this morning is that Posh won't quit! The breaking news yesterday was that Posh was going to the Foreign Ministry. One minister, another minister, one is good, the other is bad. Don't take this to good Serbia! We in Serbia have extremely big problems, which mask and hide with one very thin majority. This life is too short, and very difficult, gentlemen, it's very difficult, and because of these things that occur, it's even more difficult. This morning we listen to Bajec who says – we're out of crisis, we're out, we're on our way to development. Then we listen to another minister who says -- there's a difficult situation coming up, etc. How is he going to survive here? How much is the National Defence Fund? What about the technique in the Army? Should we in Serbia only give people for some multinational forces? It's humiliating for Serbia! Are we going to have our own airports, planes, our own technique, our tanks, our own organization? We won't! Someone's coming. Well, it's beneath me to have my kid wearing another country's uniform! Why should he wear others, wear a Serbian uniform, and if he has to show up somewhere?- I'm sorry. We won't, and we've passed certain laws, and we've made certain decisions that we're military neutral. What are we supposed to do about it now, if they said, I don't know, 45,000 soldiers in Afghanistan, our children being cannon meat?- I'm sorry. Why go there? What are we doing there? In history, Serbia has never participated in any multinational forces. And why do we need to do this now? We've always defended our country, our territory, if anyone attacks us. So the people can't understand it, they can't accept it. Don't make us do that. It's against our interests, our traditions, our origins! The government needs to do their job, and she doesn't! The government's a mess! You no longer know what's going on, and whenever there's a problem, there's talk of previous governments immediately, of a situation in previous governments. Well, guys, you've been in power for almost two years. Who bothers you more to make a good organization? Who bothers you to make a top government? Who bothers you if the departments work for you? No one's bothering you. You don't know, you can't organize! It is known what the minister should do, there is a law on the ministries that provides for it, and all important decisions must come to Parliament. I can't have the ministers coming here to argue with the MPs! The MPs are representatives of the people. What a people, such messengers! Not now, attack on ministers, it's an attack on Serbian citizens. These people have been chosen, gentlemen, sent here. They represent certain environments and defend the interest of their people who sent them here and who will drag them by the sleeve tomorrow and say, "My child will not go there because I will not go there." This is a very important question that must be discussed here, if necessary for days. We can't let individuals literally do whatever they want. Every morning we hear that we are closer to the EU. We are closer, but if we are 2100 – as soon as the new day comes, we are one day closer. That's logic and it was told yesterday by a great genius named Ollie Rehn, who said you were closer than you were in the previous period. Well, of course, as soon as the day's up, we're closer. Of course, that's logic and that's not to be debated right now. Therefore, here in this country we have had a number of problems and we want this Serbia to stand on its feet, to economically strengthen, to create some conditions for employment, for life, for work. What was the announcement Bajeca made this morning and explained – pensions will not grow, but the electricity will accumulate next year, immediately after the New Year 20%, gas will most likely accumulate, fuel will follow the world market, all will be collected, and the guaranteed wages in the public sector and pensions will remain identical. Every year we fall and fall on all lower and lower branches! Gentlemen, here are some of your media, which you have been extremely concerned with, saying that half a million in Serbia are starving every day. Whether it's true or not, we have to deal with it. Where are these new jobs where people are going to get jobs? Pajtic recently held "vakelu" there in his assembly and said 15,000 jobs await young Vojvodina. Where are those 15,000 jobs? What factories? Where were those factories built? Now, don't find a job for our youngsters who will be sent to world wars to fight, and we don't know who, for anyone, for nothing. So, let's find the cards -- is Serbia's interest in joining NATO, which the referendum has to decide?- I'm sorry. The mask in multinational forces means nothing, it's stuck, blurry, but some coffins will come to Serbia with dead people. Let's not let anything like that happen! It's the responsibility and the ruling coalition. Fat, gentlemen, think about whether it's really good for us. And don't destroy the institution of the army! And remove politics from the church to make church authorities function, dignitaries of the Serbian Orthodox Church, as appropriate. Don't make a circus out of the state! You won the election very thin and unstable. Do not argue, do not enter into debates, but listen to the well-intentioned counsel of our messengers! Don't react... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28236	National MP, the time at your disposal as an authorised representative has been used. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday the SRS made its position clear on the civil service of the military, however, today when we talk about the engagement of the Republic of Serbia Army in multinational operations, we have a basis here in Article 140. The Constitution. Mr. Minister, a member of the 140th could be directly applied in such a way that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would, in any case, open the debate and decide whether to refer members of our army to peacekeeping missions rather than to multinational operations, and then we would have a specific case in mind. However, there is one problem. Mr. Minister, you have risen above your Serbian people. We've been telling you, for the third day, certain things, that's what you've been listening to. We here present our judgment of some things, and then you later enter the controversy, I would say to the Serbian People's Dictionary, even, in a fight with the MPs. You said yesterday, at the end of the debate, to MP Aleksandr Martinovic, who is a top patriot, a couple of intellectual excellants, a young man, that he was rude, and he only spoke, was a court of value, his own personal and party to which he belonged, but he belonged in quality. Since you didn't have any other arguments, then you said he was rude and you think that's how you solved the problem. No, most of all, you're here to show courage as minister of military. We're not arguing, maybe you really are, but no one can be more modern or humane than members and members of the SRS. It may not be modern for us and it is not acceptable to have a gay parade, but the tradition on which we primarily base our bright future must not be forgotten. You didn't argue with me... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28238	It's been two minutes. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28239	I will continue to explain my amendments by interpreting the real motivation of the legislators of this law, not so much because I believe that Mr. Minister of Military After this will change something, but simply to explain it to the people of Serbia, it is our duty as MPs, which is what this is really about. NATO's April 2009 NATO summit conclusions support the Serbian government's commitment to become a NATO member, and after visiting US Vice-President Joseph Biden, part of the current media government is increasingly encouraging a campaign to join Serbia in NATO. Support for the Euro-Atlantic definition of the current government could be heard before the summit of several officials from countries making up the military organisation, as well as from NATO officials themselves. She testifies that the current government in Serbia, outside the public's eyes, is conducting negotiations on NATO inclusion. How else could you be supportive of something that no one has ever expressed their will? In addition, it confirms that the current government is not behind the National Assembly resolution on Serbia's military neutrality, which it itself has declared. This is best shown by statements by top current government officials, particularly the military minister, that Serbia is a NATO post. For serious and real democratic power, it would be unimaginable for top officials, including ministers, to demean the Parliament's acts, which was just spoken of by New Serbia President Velimir Ilic. It turns out they have less responsibility to their own assembly and the will of the people than to NATO officials. The current government's procedures show that it accepted the resolution on military neutrality under internal political pressure only temporarily and dishonestly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28240	Two minutes. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28241	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what I would point to, and there have already been words about it, when the title of one law is given, in any case, it is not appropriate to use sixteen words. This law should, however, be clearer to the extent that its title would be quite logical, and would be legally formulated so that it could be both understandable and acceptable. The MPs of the SRS have indicated that this bill has many shortcomings. First, the SRS is against sending troops from the Republic of Serbia and being the support and protection of the US forces and forces of the NATO Pact. As for the SRS, we advocate to strengthen the defence power of the Republic of Serbia, to make its formation forces stronger, to prepare ourselves to defend against our enemies, and there are many. Let's start with that enemy, first of all, the NATO Pact that went into the humanitarian action "merciful angel", now we with this "merciful angel" need to join our military forces and military potentials. I don't think that's necessary. There is no need at this historic moment for Serbia to send its soldiers to help neither NATO's pact nor the Americans. As a member of the SRS, I pledge that the military has better status, material status, that the military be provided first and foremost... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28242	Two minutes, thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the head above the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28243	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, sometimes you have the advantage of getting a word whenever you want, and you have to, to get into the controversy and to discuss some things and explain, which is normally your role, while we MPs can't always get a word and we're a little deprived here. But when I told you about buying old iron -- I'm buying this, buying this, not to mention what kind of people do, it can come to a situation and old tanks to give. Now, I'm sorry about the fate of the Serbian weapon, and I couldn't see, I don't see well from here your rank, I don't see very well, you're far away, you probably have, Mr. Minister, some act, and Gordana Comic, I think, has an act of 'colonel', at least the media say so, but there's nothing ugly about it. In today's understanding of this time there is no room for wisdom and no place for ideals, no place for chivalry, but, if there were a war, it would be one cruel war, a fierce struggle, in which there is not much chance of survival. Because science, technique, and so on. Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask you to get serious, so let's try in a different way, as thought men saw war once being fought (quote): 'Sometimes it's a Serb soldier, when we go from home to war, strictly forbidden to rob, kill civilians, especially women, children... '(President: it's been two minutes. Thank you. I will use the time of the parliamentary group. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28244	National MP, the time available to your parliamentary group has been used, such as that for the New Serbia and the SRS parliamentary group, and that is the only reason why each applicant has only two minutes at his disposal. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28245	Minister, did he teach you that fingering isn't particularly polite?- I'm sorry. I'll continue with the right motivation of the bill's promoter. Obviously, there is very clear external pressure and NATO support for this definition of our party government. That is what some NATO ambassadors' columns in the leading national newspapers show very strikingly, which would be incomprehensible for any country that holds on to elementary dignity. All this gives grounds for assuming that the current government, without informing the local public, is committed to steps leading to NATO integration, which makes it logical to suspect that it is running an independent state and national policy. It is forgotten, however, that the definition of the current government is not the definition of state and people. However, depending on how much the current government has committed to NATO, the pressure that is yet to be put on our public will depend on, in order to bring the public's commitment to the government's definition of NATO at some point. We were talking about human civilian victims, material, cultural, civilizational damage, which undoubtedly speaks of an enemy relationship between NATO, and there is also a destruction of the country's state sovereignty and territorial integrity by taking over our southern province. The fact is that today part of our country is under NATO occupation, and that the occupation is trying to conceal itself by recognising the independence of the so-called state of Kosovo. Under such circumstances, no serious state or people with little self-respect would question joining an aggressor military alliance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28246	Two minutes. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28247	I asked the amendment to replace the word "closed" with the word "ratified." If you have already found that multinational operations are beyond Serbia's borders are specific missions or operations to preserve, maintain and build peace in the world, then, conflict prevention and peace-making operations, and then, joint defence operations, as well as assistance operations to eliminate the consequences of international terrorism and participation in humanitarian operations, although this is an overwhelming reminder of NATO's use strategy in operations outside the territory of signatories, are you at all aware of the importance of these operations they have, both for individuals and for individual participants in these operations, as well as for countries in general? Is it possible that here, as in many other places, you ignore the role played by this congregation? It is quite clear to us that you, in an attempt to make absolute subsuppression of the executive over other branches of government, confirm a single syntagma – that it is 'the dream of every beating to become God and a beating', and you obviously want the executive power to become, since it already has all the features of some beating over other types of power, 'and God and the beating'. However, Serbian citizens need to know something else, one lesson, and they probably already saw it, which is, "When you fall into the water, you get angry at yourself, not at the stream." But you'll pass. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28248	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28249	In the end, perhaps this debate is not bad at all because Serbia's public has the right to hear what it offers us to join NATO and that this debate may be an introduction to a future referendum, a statement by the people, who only have the right to declare their entry into NATO. I was just saying that relations between NATO and Serbia should develop in line with how issues related to aggression are addressed, the establishment of state sovereignty across the territory and war damage. The requirement for Serbia to join NATO means nothing more than an invitation for NATO to take over Serbia as a whole. This would finally justify the aggression itself, recognise the secession of KIM and accept the criminalisation of its own defence. Given that there is a real danger that the country is bound to NATO, without public insight, by signing individual agreements and by putting the people before the final act, it is necessary to respond to the referendum as soon as possible in order to avoid the will of the existing authorities being imposed as the will of the state and the people. It is interesting that NATO allies themselves in the country justify joining NATO by avoiding many dangers in this way – it is the story that Serbia must not remain an island. Why would it be dangerous to stay out of NATO or be surrounded by NATO? Why would it be dangerous if NATO were really a humanitarian organization? Then it would even be good, because Serbia would have a security ring, however, and they themselves suspect the humanitarian mission of NATO so that the argument comes down to the following: it needs to be included in NATO to bow down and obey forces. It's nothing more than the expression of sublime mentality, which hides itself...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28250	It's been two minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28251	Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, the essence of this amendment is the strengthening of the Assembly, which is referred to in this bill in relation to the draft law, which we had the opportunity to see, I wish, the essence of this amendment is that the Assembly should also be entitled to decide on the involvement of the Police in multinational operations, which was rejected by the proposal, and it was in the bill of law, therefore, not only the military but also the Police. Article 10 says the government is deciding on the involvement and deployment of the police into multinational forces. We think the Assembly should decide on participation, and the government should make a decision on the reference. It just makes sense to us, because it's still armed formations, it can get killed, it's carrying weapons, etc. The government has rejected this amendment with a strange explanation – that according to the Constitution, the Assembly decides on the military's participation. That's right. It would be unconstitutional for the government to decide on the military's involvement, but it is not unconstitutional for the Assembly to get something that is not foreseen by the Constitution. Anything that isn't provided for in the Constitution, I guess that's allowed. On the other hand, I'll take the opportunity, just for the sake of the viewers, because some false stories keep repeating, and that's why I want to correct them. The assembly has never passed a resolution on neutrality, but in the Kosovo Resolution, in half a sentence, mentions military neutrality. Secondly, signing an international contract, which is a NATO membership, does not require a referendum. The Constitution says that a referendum is necessary to change borders. Those who are just advocating a referendum for NATO membership were able to give our energy independence to one other country for an international contract, to seek a referendum, not to vote unanimously and ratify the international agreement. There is no difference for international contracts, according to the Constitution, this does not require a referendum. Third, here many are calling for the tradition of the Serbian Army. They were probably some kind of military person or something. I can only remind them that they were never members of the Serb army, because the state of Serbia did not even exist then. They were members of another army, some other state that wasn't called Serbia, or was called the Serbian Army. And in the tradition of that army that belonged to them were both Silver and Sheep and what their colleagues, members of that army did.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28252	Five minutes and five seconds were spent from the time of the parliamentary group. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Zoran Nikolic submitted the 9th amendment together. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28253	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs attended, just over 30 minutes ago, a debate involving the National MPs of Nada Kolundžija, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, the defence minister, whose jurisdiction it is. Here is a solution for all, that there is no debate and that it is clear to everyone, of course, always the right, the right solution, based on the law, and above all on the Constitution, gives the DSS. I now call upon the ruling majority, if the government will not accept, to accept this amendment. If he does not accept it, it is absolutely a reason for all the MPs to vote against this law, of course for those who care about state and constitutional arrangements. If that doesn't happen, we will, I would like to inform you, ask the Constitutional Court of Serbia for an opinion on whether this law is in accordance with the Constitution at all. Namely, Article 140. The constitution makes it clear that "Serbian Army can be used beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia only after the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". Point. ) The bill states: 'The President of the Republic, based on the decision of the National Assembly,' therefore, after what was discussed on Article 8, ''in accordance with the law, decides to refer a member of the Serbian Army to a multinational operation, on a proposal from the defence minister. '"I purposely address Mrs. Nadia Kolundzija, because she spoke of it, and Mr. Ružić, now, about the coalition, we will easily, have time, wait a second, I asked. I repeat, Article 9 reads "in accordance with the law, it decides" by the President of the Republic, on the basis of a decision by the National Assembly to refer a member of the Republic of Serbia's Army to multinational operations, on a proposal from the defence minister. ''As the Constitution makes it clear - only the National Assembly makes a decision. Our amendment reads nicely: "Article 9 is amended and reads as follows: "The President of the Republic, through the Secretary of Defence, implements the National Assembly's decision to refer members of the Serbian Army to multinational operations". Thus, he can only implement the decision of the National Assembly, for only the National Assembly can make such a decision. We believe that this is the only solution in accordance with the Constitution. He cannot make a decision and make a decision, but he can only implement the National Assembly's decision, which is normal in the hierarchy of commanding the military. That's not controversial. We are not interested in the name and last name of the President of the Republic, but in the institution of the President of the Republic. So I ask you all, if the government is not hearing enough, because it is the most incompetent government in Serbia's history, that the National Assembly adopt this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28254	One minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group have been spent. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28255	Speaking of subjective mentality, I must explain that NATO is indeed resting on force and demonstration of force. When so, then the next step must be accepted, which is that the force tends to expand indefinitely, i.e. to conquer others. That goes for NATO, too. The wars he's waged, at the very least, are no less brutal than any other war, neither just righteous nor humanitarian, on the contrary, if we still felt it on our own skin. Such a global force that seeks to be put all the way above the UN Security Council also causes global resistance. Global, unfair and conquering wars don't increase anyone's safety, but that's why they're jeopardizing everyone. Participation in NATO-led wars would increase multiple threats to Serbia's security, as it will become the target of possible opponents of NATO's aggressive policy. By joining NATO, Serbia will not make more friends, but will lose those it has so far, because it would settle into opponents of its friends. I've already said that it doesn't practically contribute to the pacification, but to the militarization of society. If NATO had cared for Serbia's progress, it would not have been recklessly bombed and destroyed. NATO's arrival will not make Serbia richer, but poorer, as it will have to pay its membership in NATO for economic and human lives. NATO is not coming to make Serbia happy, but to have its territory and the lives of our soldiers. Of these rich people, who you in power have claimed to have excellent contacts with them, Serbs have so far received only impoverished uranium. Let me remind you, as of 1999, between 15,000 and 20,000 new cancer cases have been registered in Serbia, in order to reach a figure of 30,000 new patients already in 2004. Read...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28256	Time. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national emissary Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28257	Thank you. Dear citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS, as well as my colleagues, have submitted an amendment to this bill proposing that "multinational operations" be replaced by the words "peace operations" in an appropriate decline. We believe that the term "peace operations" is more precise and more adequate than the term multinational, which is certainly a broader concept and can include military operations of a different type, such as: combat operations and peace enforcement operations, as well as operations against terrorist forces. Unlike the old law, under which Serbian soldiers could only go to UN-led peacekeeping missions, a new bill on the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of Serbia extends the range of opportunities to engage Serbian armed forces, which means it is not excluded that Serb soldiers will be engaged in Iraq, an Allied operation of the United States, or in Afghanistan, NATO operations. The SNS doesn't want our soldiers to gain military experience at crisis hotspots around the world under NATO's mandate or alliance with another state, which will be allowed by this law, so I suggest you adopt the SNS amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28258	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28259	The real danger is that the public's eyes are practically hidden from signing an agreement, i.e. joining NATO, but therefore that some individual agreements are being signed all the time and that Serbia's commitments to NATO are thus being created. So Serbia would in the first step, in fact, attach itself to NATO, so that in the second step, the commitment would be formalised. The unprecedented commitment of the current government to NATO gives sufficient grounds to assume that it could at some point sign a stronger and more general agreement with the military alliance, which could be interpreted as having the status of an international contract. Given that our constitution does not provide the possibility for citizens in the referendum to declare international agreements, Serbia, not at its democratic will, but at the request of the current government, could be found in NATO, so that it would also be a 'wolf and sheep on the count'. Because of this danger, it is very important to call a referendum as soon as possible to prevent the usual logic of this party government, the logic of the final act. The story is that in military security for Serbia there is no alternative but to joining NATO, but there is always an alternative. Insisting that NATO has no alternative is nothing more than a form of pressure to produce in our public a sense of hopelessness, so that it is easier to submit to the NATO dictatorship of interest and its supporters in the country. One who does not see alternatives should not engage in such serious action as politics. Many countries are not NATO members, nor will they ever be, but still survive and advance faster than members of the alliance itself. If there is an alternative, even for Euro-Atlantic countries, why shouldn't it exist for Serbia? If there's no political in society...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28260	Two minutes. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 10th Amendment was submitted by MPs Milan Knezevic and Dragan Todorovic in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28261	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SNS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10 of this Law, and that amendment provides for the removal of the position of the 3rd member. As usual, the Government rejects the amendment, in short, it states that the amendment is not accepted because the prescribed exception covers only the military use activity in situations which could not be planned, so it is stated - the immediate removal of the consequences of natural, technical and environmental accidents of larger scales, as well as the provision of assistance to civilian authorities in crisis situations. In fact, in their explanation, they paraphrased this point 3 which I have proposed to delete with the amendment. In essence, the introduction of such an attitude and the leaving of this position in this Article 10 are given to the Government a much higher authority and powers, i.e. to the authority and powers which do not have under the Constitution, i.e. the anti-constitutional, and on the other hand, the Government obtains powers that the Serbian Parliament has. Surely for situations like this, which are objective, which can happen and which are tragic, there is a more appropriate solution that would be in line with both other laws and the Constitution. Giving and accepting exceptions certainly creates chain-based new exceptions, so I suggest that this attitude be deleted, so that in this way the Government does not take over powers that are anti-constitutional and thus prevent abuses that may potentially arise from this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28262	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Time is available for 11 minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28263	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Dragan Todorovic has proposed that Article 3 be deleted in Article 10. The bill, because this provision, as well as the whole bill, is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 140. Serbia's constitution makes it clear that the Serbian Army can be used outside Serbia's borders only in accordance with the National Assembly's decision, and now some god-awful exception is being introduced, which can become a practice and can become a rule. In this regard, Article 10(3) states: 'The Government may, exceptionally, authorise the participation of other defence forces in humanitarian operations which are not foreseen by the Annual Use Plan, in the event of an immediate removal of the consequences of natural, technical and environmental accidents of larger scales, as well as the provision of assistance to civilian authorities in crisis situations. 'Formally, this is an exception. Basically, this will become a rule. Why? Well, you already have more natural, technical and environmental accidents in Afghanistan now, and there is probably a need in Afghanistan to help civilian authorities in crisis situations. Wherever you have war facts, in any part of the world, in any meridian, there are generally natural, technical and technological accidents of larger proportions, and there is a need to help civilian authorities in crisis situations. Then what's supposed to be an exception will become a rule. Almost never will a consensus be required, or approval of the National Assembly, but if this goes through, the government will always be able to say -- you know, there is an urgent need for the use of the Serbian Army outside Serbia's borders to be decided by the government, because the conditions laid down in Article 10(3) have been met. The law on the use of the Serbian Army as part of multinational operations. Then the National Assembly will never decide, and the government will always decide, the executive authority and thus what it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia will be completely out of force. Let me remind you, gentlemen of the government, because there's a big campaign going on these days about who's fascist, and who's anti-fascist in Serbia, this government is declared to be extremely anti-fascist, and there you have graduated anti-fascism, so you are of all the world's largest anti-fascistsists, and now you, such great anti-fascists, are ready to place the Serbian Army in the service of international bandits, the NATO pact. Just to remind you, your great anti-fascists, that in time General Milan Nedic, who was the president of the Serbian government in occupied Belgrade and occupied Serbia, refused to send any Serb soldier within the framework of the Vermacht to the Eastern Front, and he suffered great pressures, yet no Serb soldier went to fight on the Eastern Front. Not because General Nedic had some sympathy for bettervism, but because he did not allow Serbs to wage war with the Russians, whatever ideological beliefs these Russians have, and you will, with this bill, if this goes away, and by all accounts, bring Serbs into a situation, for the first time in their history, to war against the Russians. I hope that you are not little children, that what NATO is doing now in Iraq, in Afghanistan, what happened in Georgia, what is going to happen tomorrow in Iran is nothing more than creating a strategic ring around Russia in order to control, first of all, the energy resources and a large Slovenian and Orthodox state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28264	Time is available as an authorised representative for seven minutes and 30 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28265	The Liberal Democratic Party believes that this exception is not good, as it is formulated – that the government can decide to refer other defence forces to these envisaged cases. We suggest that the draft law be returned, and that is, that it immediately requires a subsequent confirmation in the Assembly. To us, this amendment was rejected with an unusual explanation – that the government's obligation to report to the National Assembly was governed by Article 17(7). It's a bill of law. And Article 17, paragraph 7, says, "The report of the position of the 6th member of the Government shall be submitted to the National Assembly at the first next session. "And attitude six is not at all about what we're talking about, it's about ending or temporary completion of a multinational operation. Indeed, I don't know why these changes from the Draft to the proposal are so degraded by the Assembly. I would say that this amendment by fellow Shormaza is going that way, if I understand correctly the right of the president to decide after our decision. Too bad there is no minister who could answer what was thought, that the president, in fact, if we decide on the use and involvement of the military in some multinational operations, may not respect that decision and make a decision on non-response, it is not possible vice versa. If we say there is no army, he certainly cannot send the army, because it would be against the constitution, but if we say he is going, the right to decide can be – I disagree and cannot go. We think that this way, through several of the members we have submitted to the amendments, if there is any reason in the Ministry of Defence, it will return to the National Assembly that it had and, ultimately, that means sharing responsibility. I really think it's weird that this is how you take the authority of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28266	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Zoran Nikolic together submitted the 11th amendment. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28267	This amendment to Article 9 must be adopted. If this law is not passed, it becomes unconstitutional. Once again I read – Serbia's army can be used beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia only after the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It can no longer be decided by the President, by the Government, by the Minister, by the General Staff, by the Chief of Staff, by anyone, by the National Assembly, by the Constitution! And in order to comply with the Constitution, I ask you to adopt these amendments to Art. 9, and 11, as well as the 10th member who submitted, interestingly, in the same text, advances and radicals. But all of this connects what is only acceptable, so as the amendments are proposed, and everything else is absolutely unconstitutional, unacceptable and a real problem. Gentlemen, you're taking on a great responsibility, no matter what the Minister doesn't have here. And the Lord of the army shall hear this well, and great responsibility shall be taken. Once Serbia couldn't avoid wars, perhaps in World War I, sometimes Serbia and the Serbian people could have avoided war, say, in World War II, but if we hadn't participated in those two wars, we would have been 35 to 40 million today. The question is, with such a number today, how could we possibly have a problem with territorial integrity and sovereignty? Everything has to be taken care of. It's a national interest, it's the interest of the Serbian state, we don't need to go and participate. I repeat this story from this morning, for those who haven't heard, the commander of ISAF, the UN Peace Mission in Afghanistan, has been asking for these days, not Ban Ki Moon, not the UN, not the Security Council, an additional 40,000 troops for Afghanistan, because they don't know where they are, they don't know what's going on, but asked the President of the United States. The President of the United States has promised the Americans that they will reduce the number of troops in Afghanistan. That doesn't mean there won't be 110, and now there's 70,000 of them, but there'll be fewer Americans. What happens next? What the British prime minister did first, he sent another 500 troops, our neighbours Romanians, Bulgarians, Croats already send for three times as much as they are present, will press everyone else, especially those who have shown that they have easily obeyed the orders of Washington or Washington helped to be the government in their own country, which helped form a government. Don't play with these things! Accept these amendments. If the law has to be passed, let it be in accordance with the Constitution, let Parliament take responsibility for these difficult decisions. Don't take responsibility just one part of the people's opinion, so if you have to do such a thing, please, let it be in accordance with the Constitution! It is absolutely out of the question that anyone can make a decision outside Parliament to send a single soldier. The word “decision” must not stand anywhere in the law, only where it says, “Parliament, the National Assembly”. Nothing President, nothing Minister, nothing General Staff, nothing Government, nobody, nobody, just the National Assembly! Everyone else implements the decision of the National Assembly, that is so clear. Don't, I repeat again, Serbia must be militaryly neutral, Serbia must co-operate with all of us. The 'Partnership for Peace' framework is sufficient. It should go to peace missions, but where peace and decision are made, in our composition, with our marks, with our salaries, of course, the Serb soldier should not be a mercenary, no one else should pay him, this state should pay him, wherever he goes. It is only acceptable for both the state and the people of Serbia. In the end, I end up with no need to fear the referendum. Whoever the Democrats are should respect the will of the people. You don't need to hide behind a minority. Please, in order to know that we are not called or called, we need to call a referendum and make a decision, so that the country is strategically aware, which will be, it is clear to all of us, that Serbia should not be a member of the NATO Pact, so that after that we can work in the right way and act as ordered by the National Security Strategy, the Defence Strategy, to organise a country and a situation in which the military is neutral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28268	Three minutes and 20 seconds were spent from the time of the parliamentary group. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28269	I fully agree with my colleague, Shormaz, and I see no reason for anyone - who thinks he won the election, to fear his own people and his will. So, there's no need to be afraid of the referendum. The first step is to actually support the Republika Srpska government to call a referendum on joining NATO, because there is obviously a situation in which this only Serbian state is being broken down, so, in addition to supporting the launch of a referendum on NATO's entry into Republika Srpska, the first step for Serbia must be to call a referendum in which people would actually give their opinion. It is interesting that the interruption in the explanation of the previous amendment occurred the moment I spoke about that and that there is an alternative to joining NATO, that is, in the part where I said, "If there are no political alternatives in society, there is a consequence of dictatorship and even worse – totalitarianism". So nothing's an accident. But compared to NATO, Serbia certainly has an alternative, better than its membership, which is an active military neutrality that does not exclude co-operation with significant security factors in the world, in line with its national and national interests. As protection of state and national interests implies protection from aggression, the country's security policy cannot be reduced to co-operation with the aggressor. That would totally disenfranchise her. Since co-operation is not a co-operation, the idea of active military neutrality also rules out co-operation with NATO.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28270	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28271	And since you obviously don't know what this is about when it comes to active military neutrality, I'll tell you now. It should be developed as a strategic definition of the country. However, the current government is already relating the importance of the resolution on military neutrality, adopted by the National Assembly, noting that the resolution was adopted prior to the adoption of a new security strategy. It is not excluded that just repealing the Resolution on military neutrality will be one of the elements of the strategy being prepared by the current government, with the goal of creating assumptions for a strategic turn towards NATO involvement. That is another important reason for a referendum on joining NATO as soon as possible. And finally (quote) the words of the ambassador of the Russian Federation to BiH, Alexander Bocan Harchenk, who says: "The general attitude of Russia is not to think that NATO's expansion is in favour of stabilisation and security, so whoever has ears to hear, let him hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28272	Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Stefan Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28273	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, the bill on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia has been written so that one day, which you believe in and hope will come, when Serbia's majority mood will be so that Serbia enters NATO. He has his full function. Today you are aware that the majority mood is different, fortunately for us, the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia do not want to join NATO, and the SNS considers Serbia to be the best military neutrality. In order to warn such a moment and scenario that no text will be adopted that will serve other people's needs and interests, we have submitted amendments, starting with the very title of the bill asking for the word "multinational" to be changed in the word "peaceful". I would like to hear where this national, security and defence interests of the Republic of Serbia are being questioned so that we would participate in certain operations initiated by a military alliance, not to mention examples, because I don't have time. On the contrary, in this way, we would have created enemies and therefore the agreement of the country, in which we would eventually be directed by our military forces. In an explanation of why this amendment is not accepted, and these others, you say – that Article 2 unequivocally states that these are activities that have the character of peace operations. Not true, Article 2 is so wide-ranging that it leaves the possibility of interpretation in different ways. It also mentions the prevention of conflict, and international terrorism, etc. What's the point? I repeat, for the state and its interests, the most important thing is that we do not create new enemies and, I conclude, so we ask that the word "multinational" be changed with the word "peaceful". Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28274	On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28275	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's around what kind of situation the Serbian Army will be put in, in case this bill gets the necessary majority. At a secret meeting held in Brussels on 13 March 1999, attended by top NATO and US officials, a definitive decision on Serbia's bombing was made. As the start date of the bombing was set on March 17th, but due to poor weather conditions, it was moved, seven days later, by March 24th. The meeting formulated a six-point plan of attack on Serbia. I'll only read you two points, so you know what the Serbian Army will have to do, if this, God forbid, the bill passes. Point 2) says: "In case of resistance, Yugoslavia destroys the most significant means, using ammunition with impoverished uranium and cluster bombs. Containers with battle poisons and microbiological substances activate if the defense systems provide such resistance to disrupt the plans of the elaborate action "Aligator". Strategic neutron bombs used to eliminate living forces at the border towards Albania and Macedonia. ''The point 4' is said: ''In the case of resistance from Yugoslavia, civilians should be killed, bridges, hospitals, schools, kindergartens, water tanks, infrastructure, relays, trafo stations, power lines. By destroying the refineries, it causes an ecological disaster. "Vinchu" should not be spared because the collapse of reactors creates opportunities to create a rapid capitulation of Yugoslavia. Also activate Operation Potkovica, through the KLA, prepare an alleged exodus of Albanian living, which will retreat towards Albania and Macedonia, where TV teams of the world's largest media houses will await the alleged atrocities of the Yugoslav Army and police. '" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28276	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28277	Just to supplement what my colleague Martinovic was saying, that is, of course, absolutely correct. It is also true that NATO relied on the famous two-phase tactics applied in the Gulf War, which implies the rapid neutralisation of military facilities in the first, or destruction of other facilities in the second phase. Before the war, Remzi Clark also mentioned the third phase during his visit to Serbia, which includes an attack on civil infrastructure, unless the political goal is met. Maybe Mr. Martinovic knows what stage we're in right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28278	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28279	I suggest you withdraw this bill and forget that the proposal was addressed to the public. I need to draw your attention to article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in its text, has no words – in accordance with the law, so this law is completely unnecessary. First of all, because of these people in uniform, do you know what international war law is? Do you know what hash and Geneva conventions are? If you know that, know that you have made a bill contrary to those international regulations. One more thing, a very important thing, we've been accused of aggression for years. The charges stemmed from the moment NATO carried out the beastly bombing, aggression and destruction of Serbia. There's been a lawsuit against the states that gave their planes. A commission has been formed in The Hague tribunal to investigate 40 and some cases. They came to the conclusion that NATO has committed a crime against peace, and the crime is not covered by the UN tribunal's Statute and has no place to conduct the proceedings. A discussion in The Hague tribunal on the aggression of the former JNA and Serbia was interrupted at that time. Take care of what you're playing with, especially you in uniforms that you need to know about. Let these civilians go, they're conducting some foreign policy. Let them go, they demonstrated absolute ignorance. The only document that creates our international commitment is the UN Charter, in this area, that is Chapter VII, establishing, preserving peace, participating in peace operations. Anything else, that's out of the question. Besides, for the record, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not allow our police to leave our border. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28280	Two minutes. Thank you. This concludes the morning part of the session and we continue the work this afternoon, today, at 15.00 hours, with discussion in particular on Article 14, on which the amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Thank you. [[After break – 15.10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we continue the session's work in the afternoon debate on Article 14 of the amendment submitted by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28282	Obviously, we will speed up these amendments, MPs are mostly not in the O.R., but Serbian citizens need to know something that belongs to the military's portfolio. Namely, Zrenjanin Parliament Speaker Aleksandar Marton said tonight that on Saturday, October 17th, a memorial will be placed on the former camp for Croatian prisoners in Stajic near Zrenjanin. Marton said on the stands in Sremska Mitrovica that, according to him, the state of Serbia gave the green light for the arrival of the association from Croatia that is planning to place a memorial mark on the site of the 1991 Croatian prisoner war camp. From the Association of War Military Disabilities Zrenjanin informs us that they have information that Croats are coming on Saturday, along with the mayor of Vukovar, and that their host here will be, among other things, and who else, rather than Natasa Kandic. The MUP did not want to comment on this news, and all Zrenjanin leaders are suddenly unavailable to the media. Otherwise, two weeks ago, Croatians already announced their arrival to post a memorial mark at the site of the alleged concentration camp in Stajic. The meeting was then cancelled due to an assessment by the MUP that participants could not be guaranteed security. At this point, the MUP did not want to declare whether the rally for 17 October was announced and approved. To point out that Stajic was the regular prison of the regular army, in which captured members of the paramilitary formations were placed, which would mean the translation of terrorist units. The entire prison was under the control of the Red Cross and so far there is no legally relevant data on any violations of domestic and international regulations. Given that Natasa Kandic has taken over the host's role this time, known for not being interested in the victims, but only to reach her goal, we believe that some provocation is really coming up for Saturday. The Association of Military Disabilities...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28283	Two minutes. Thank you. People's MPs, I remind you of the obligation to discuss the agenda in principle and in particular. Your two-minute exposure had nothing to do with the amendment you submitted, which reads: 'In Article 14 in the position of the 1st word 'in a multinational operation' is replaced by 'in a peacekeeping mission with the mandate of the UN'. In the same Article 14, in the second term, "multinational operations" are replaced by the words "un mandated peacekeeping missions". ''I warn you not to violate the Rules of Procedure and not to force me to impose criminal measures, to which I am obliged in cases where MPs abuse the rights they have in the debate in particular. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Aleksandra Jankovic submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28284	In Article 15, as in all previous members, it is necessary to replace the words "in multinational operations" in the words "in peacekeeping missions with the mandate of the UN". Even in the morning, I spent talking about the proposing's intentions to isolate for NATO, and such a commitment to the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia is expected and what is not a particular novelty for the Serbian public. Practically, it is the same political and social actors, therefore, part of the government of the Republic of Serbia, numerous NGOs and concrete political parties and parts of parties that have been quietly or openly advocated by Euro-Atlantic integration for years, as the idea of legitimateising the policy of force in Serbia. In the last decade, the modern Western policy of force, in particular, but also symbolically, through a series of cases of so-called humanitarian military operations, has its most striking and paradigmic term, actually, in the NATO alliance. It is therefore a natural fact that the convincing majority of Serbian citizens are defining and declaring against Serbia's entry into NATO. The resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which we have been talking about all day and the previous day, is binding. Serbia is a military neutral state. Any attempt to question this resolution would have to respect the will of the people, which means a referendum. The only and only free expression of Serbian citizens in the referendum would have democratic legitimacy. In this sense, to the extent that Serbia claims to be a modern democratic state, no important role can be played without people asking questions. That makes the minimum of democracy, the lower limit of the fundamental principles of democracy. Positive and constructive aspects of democracy, on the other hand, would involve, much more, public debates and gatherings...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28285	Two minutes. Thank you. Members of the 16th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28286	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment stipulates that, in Article 16, "multinational operations" are replaced by the words "peace operations". That is exactly the fundamental difference between the old law, under which soldiers went exclusively to peacekeeping operations and the bill, under which members of the Serbian Army and the interior ministry will be referred to multinational operations. The definition of multinational operations, correct me if I'm wrong, is that these are operations to establish peace, prevent conflict and eliminate the consequences of international terrorism. However, this wide-ranging dipazon of operations also involves combat operations, i.e. the establishment of peace, which the previous legal solution did not foresee. Does this mean, Mr. Minister, that members of the Serbian Army will be sent to Afghanistan and Iran? I'm sure he will, because you, in an interview given on October 1st this year to the weekly "Time", in the same article my colleague, Mr Bozidar Delic, was invited to ask reporters: "Can we expect Serbian Army members to go on peacekeeping missions that would include combat facts, like those in Afghanistan," he replied, "This option is far away." You have not ruled this option out, so I ask you, how far away is the month, two, three, six months, a year? I think it's enough for the citizens of Serbia, that Serbian citizens are eager for normal life, for progress, for work, for God's sakes of conflict on our territory, but not at any end of the world, so I urge you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28287	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Aleksandra Jankovic submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28288	I was just talking about the positive and constructive aspects of democracy involving public debates and gatherings and various other possibilities to hear the voice of the people and about other far less crucial and breaking historical decisions and issues. It is the same meaning that Jürgen Habermans, for example, insists on the fact that even modern Europe is not democratic. The basic thing, therefore, is that Serbia's obligations, and these obligations that involve sending Serbian soldiers to war and potentially combat hotspots around the world, would be greatly increased. The point is not only that Serbia would put aside the most directly and indirectly, and participate in the facts, whose political and moral character is, most often, extremely suspicious, but that in this way, which is the main goal of all the supporters of Serbia's accession to the NATO Pact, Serbia would turn against the Russian Federation, its largest strategic ally and friends of the state with which Serbia has no outstanding issue. Ironically, we should be safer with those who have threatened our safety in recent Serbian history. The thing is not only that Serbia would put aside the most directly and participate in acts whose moral character is extremely suspicious, but also to turn against all other possible strategic partners. What Serbia's NATO advocates often say is that joining NATO would also increase Serbia's overall democratic potential. It is in itself pointless, because this argument is unsustainable both in general and in detail, both in theory and in practice. Anyone who has more than two hours of summer rain from school knows that democracy and force stand on the opposition sides of the political spectrum and shut each other down. Where there's democracy...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28289	Thank you. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28291	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, as Mr. Delic explained to you, explaining the amendments to Article 1 and Article 2. The bill, the essence of a peace operation, is not only what you brought to us, but it also means everything except 'participation in the separation of conflicted parties and defence operations', therefore, the provision of humanitarian aid in various catastrophic situations and so on. In doing so, you said that forces in multinational operations are still subject to, in addition to this law, rules on defence, civil protection and Serbia's military and completed international contracts in the field of security, defence and military co-operation, as well as regulations governing the jurisdiction and work of other defence forces. What we have cited and everything about this is going through all the amendments of the Serbian Progressive Party. We applied to replace the name of multinational operations with 'Peace operations', however, it is likely to remain as in the bill. Nowhere, in the whole bill of this law, you can't find the word 'Peace Mission' or 'UN Organization', which I fear has remained completely and completely forgotten in the context of this law, I want to say that no matter what we call for the earlier participation and experience of members of our armed forces, the Army-JNA, which was inherited by the Army of Serbia, and then we lived under a parole -- we live as if there would be a hundred years of peace, and we prepare as if tomorrow there would be war, in the 1990s, I mean professionals, we were caught by that war. Now again, those who have war participations, experiences, are neglected on various command, staff duties, have no right to progress and therefore fear the situation of those professionals.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28292	Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28293	Of all the closely followed statements by the defence minister, I have concluded that the defence minister is, however, explicitly said, he has a clear vision and there is a final goal that he wants to achieve in connection with the transformation of our army, but also Serbia. The minister has set Serbia's practical transformation as one of the surgical interventions to be conducted by today's generation in power, and has presented himself as a surgeon. What qualify him as a surgeon is belonging to a group of people who took over their share of responsibility to eventually succeed. The minister can't do anything on his own, no moment as defence minister -- I haven't given myself the right to implement some of my policies in the specific frameworks defined by Parliament and government, and I try to promote in coordination with other state institutions in the best way, first of all, our country, our defence system, but also our economy, culture, he says. As a legalist, with a clear vision, the minister knows that active measures are needed that lead towards achievement. The first thing to do is to separate the diplomatic struggle to preserve KIM from issues related to the security of the non-Albanian population, since (quote) we must in no way allow the diplomatic struggle of the citizens of KIM to suffer sanctions. When the diplomatic struggle is suspended, conditions will be created for the citizens who have been punished for it to date to no longer suffer sanctions. After that, those at KIM, who want to do so, will be able to do it privately and as many as they want to repeat it – Kosovo is Serbia. Kosovo is as many as citizens living in Cosmet are able to implement it," says the defence minister. Extraordinary. The diplomatic struggle to preserve KIM has been transformed from the obligation of the state to the private matter of individuals, and Serbia as an orderly state can no longer intervene in the process of legally implemented privatisation...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28294	Two minutes. Thank you. People's MPs, you have been warned once that we are all obliged to talk about the agenda item or we have mixed up which amendment is in question or you are persistently violating the Rules of Procedure. I'm warning you twice not to do that. We all have to respect the provision to talk about the agenda. Next time if you want to abuse the right to debate in particular and not talk about the agenda, but about the free topic, then I will be forced to give you the penalty measure prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28295	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the law of several places, we've done, let me say, some language interventions. Thus, in Article 17(4), where we are when the minister submits a report, which is referred to here in Article 17, the wording "proposes" is in the law. Our position is that the minister is still responsible, that his ministry is doing the report and that he is ultimately obliged to submit it to the government. In attitude six, it is said that the Government of the National Assembly is, not proposing, but submitting a report. We thought it was a better language item, because we know that this report is adopted by the government, but the minister's responsibility to the government, according to the military, etc., is that he should still submit a report, and not only propose it, because if something is proposed, it somehow implies a lower level of responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28296	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28297	I really feel that this amendment is friendly and that it is not politicized in any way, so I want to answer you. As such, the government is proposing a law, and we are submitting it as a draft to the government. Linguistic, now, believe me, it's hard to explain, but it's the government that's proposing to Parliament, and we're submitting to the government, so the bill of law has been passed to the government. The government adopted it and sent it to the Assembly in the form of the proposal. It's the only thing that makes sense. Trust me, and what you're saying about me is acceptable, but simply, they say it's not legally similar.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28298	The People's MP Bozidar Delic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28299	Mr. Minister, exactly what you just said, I absolutely agree with you. You said you suggested that the government propose here, and you suggest... (Minister Dragan Sutanovac, from the post: And we stand for the Government. That's it, Mr. Minister, that's what I was looking for. Exactly. I agree, exactly as you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28300	Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28301	I am allowed to say the following, in Article 18, "multinational operations" is replaced by the words "Major missions with the mandate of the UN". Now, something to refresh your memory: ''In line with the resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, adopted at the 7th session of the Second Regular Session in 2007, held on 26 December 2007, a decision on the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia was made against the existing military alliances (see point 6 of that Resolution). 'I think the minister remembered, so that's why he's going. "The notion of multinational operations implies the introduction of Serbia into some military-political bloc, above all," you like, "NATO, where members of our army and other defence forces are destined to fight for the interests of certain states or regional organisations. For this reason, I believe that the term of multinational surgery is necessary to replace the term of a peacekeeping mission. Since there are peace-making and peace-preservation operations, it is important to add that it is the participation of the Serbian Army in peace-preservation missions. In fact, peace-indication operations are combat operations. How the Republic of Serbia, as a basic definition of political national security, has a commitment to respecting the obligations arising from the UN Charter, it is important to stress that it is the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces in peacekeeping missions with the mandate of the UN. 'Mrs. Comic, is that okay?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28302	On behalf of the Head of the 19th Amendment, MP Sasa Maksimovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the Head above the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28303	Before I finally shut up, I will read again the reasoning of this amendment. Don't think this is a repeat video, I'll read again what the Vice President has given me, that's what it says in the amendment itself. Anything outside of that I can tell you at home, on the street, somewhere else, in the MP's office, if I ever get it, etc. So: 'Name of Chapter III. above Article 19 is amended and reads: Special Rights and Obligations of Participants in UN-led peacekeeping missions. In line with the resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, adopted at the 7th session of the Second Regular Session in 2007, held on 26 December 2007, a decision on the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia was made against the existing military alliances (see point 6 of that Resolution). The notion of multinational operations implies the introduction of Serbia into a military-political bloc, first of all, so much for you, "NATO, where members of our army and other defence forces are destined to fight for the interests of certain states or regional organisations. For this reason, I believe that the term of multinational surgery is necessary to replace the term of a peacekeeping mission. Since there are peace-making and peace-preservation operations, it is important to add that it is the participation of the Serbian Army in peace-preservation missions. In fact, peace-indication operations are combat operations. As the Republic of Serbia has a fundamental commitment to political national security to respect the obligations arising from the UN Charter, it is important to stress that it is about the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces in UN-led peacekeeping missions. '"Who says repeating isn't the mother of knowledge?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28304	Two minutes, thank you. National MP Ljiljana Miladanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28305	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am obliged, on behalf of the SRS, first of all to state one principled position and it relies on one sentence issued by Minister Dragan Sutanovac in the afternoon debate, when he said that in this room we all advocate European integration, but that they involve certain sacrifices and challenges. As far as the SRS is concerned, European integration will not be acceptable as long as they involve such sacrifices and challenges. As long as these challenges are transformed into legal projects like this one today, as were all those discussed for the previous two or three days, this process of European integration will not be acceptable to the SRS. As far as the amendments I tabled to this bill apply to Article 20. He regulates the choice of members of the Serbian Army and other defence forces for training and participation in multinational operations, I suggested that, in addition to the proposal, it be carried out in accordance with the Annual Plan. If you see the explanation you refused, I really think it's thin and you could accept this. Looking back on Article 7, I guess nothing that defines this annual plan is bypassed in all of this, and I think that our amendment has a foothold in what's written in the article. 7, 8, 10th of this law. Of course, we did not insist on this annual plan because we believe or expect it to be something special, but I think the only positive thing in this whole story is the fact that it will be brought into a congregation debate. We believe it will be brought to the debate in which we will try to present to the Serbian public what you are doing, how you work...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28306	Two minutes, thank you. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28307	Article 22 refers to how long the members of Serbia's armed forces can be employed abroad within the framework of some forces that establish peace and maintain peace or what has been extended to humanitarian and other activities. The basic point is not only the limit of a year, I think the basic point of this amendment is to draw attention to two concepts: multinational means multinational, armed forces of different states. It means that Serbia never goes alone with its army abroad and that's a good solution. Its engagement essentially depends primarily on the decision of the Security Council, as the only legitimate body to decide whether peace is at stake, whether it should be established or should be maintained and why intervention of the international community is needed. In this whole variant of multinational forces, the word 'national' should only be made material and resuscitated and put into effect what the UN is based on, and that is the sovereignty of the UN member states. Maybe this amendment isn't a good point of view to demonstrate some of the other political attitudes that we had this morning to hear, but we really need to make sure that the only authorized state authority that decides to refer is the National Assembly. Everything else outside of this law is completely unnecessary. Why unnecessarily? There is no special preparation for our members who participate in peacekeeping operations than those they already have in our armed forces, because if there were any other specific preparations then that would mean that we deny international war law and all that in theory is called 'white'.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28308	Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28309	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, this amendment envisions a replacement of the word "promotion" to "enhancing the reputation of the Republic of Serbia". I think if the word "promise" is used, think of the brand, participate in promotions of marketing houses and models and promote already created values. I think our country has yet to gain and improve its reputation, which is why the term "strengthen" is more appropriate in this bill. On the other hand, if we are talking about the necessity of making a fundamental deviation in the bill and in the whole text of the word "multinational operations", replacing the words "peace operation", we cannot without touching the financial resources necessary to carry out these operations. According to this bill, the costs of preparation, participation and return of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational forces, as well as the obligations of other legal entities to provide material assistance in connection with the implementation of these operations, are financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as defined by Articles 37 and 38 of this Bill. Do you have a projection of how many, very dangerous, multinational operations will cost citizens of Serbia on an annual basis? I think that Serbia is at a time of the global economic crisis, for which the Government of the Republic of Serbia, unfortunately, has no other response, except for new borrowings, there are no new funds to throw away. Don't you think that these funds can be spent on the purchase of military equipment, means of transport or the regulation of citizens and social members of the Serbian Army? I will again refer to your interview given on October 1st this year, when you question the state of the Serbian Army military park and the means of the links that are needed, you said, as soon as possible – we all need it. Don't you think it's necessary to invest in improving the state of the rolling stock and the means of a relationship rather than go around the world and risk your life? Using the difficult material position of a member... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28310	Two minutes. Thank you. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28311	So that she doesn't turn out to be the reason why this law was passed for "a handful of dollars," I'm only going to call on the previous amendment submitted by my colleague, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, at point 4, so I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, what are these costs in the case of "autonomous termination of engagement"? You know, a lot of people have tried and voluntarily left in the past, and when the facts of war started, they couldn't stand the situation. How do you know that a professional will be able to withstand various military participations in multinational operations – does this mean a return ticket and a ticket to the departure of a new professional member of the Serbian Army? In point 5, it is said that members of the Serbian Army and other defence forces headed for multinational operations are subject to disciplinary, criminal and criminal responsibility, so we suggest adding "material responsibility". The following, in the following point, paragraph 5, refers to the material assets used in peace and humanitarian operations, which is in accordance with the Military Act and the Law on military, labour and material obligations. Therefore, if they are subject to disciplinary, criminal and criminal responsibility, they should also be subject to material responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28312	The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28313	Article 28 provides for a way to protect participants in'multa' operations and thus to provide legal assistance, insurance, resturation of employment, and compensation for damages. We asked for the provisions of the Labour Act to be applied to the standstill. Mr. Minister, there is one misunderstanding about one thing, not so much for you and me, so I would like for the sake of the public, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, to resolve it. Namely, when you did not accept one of my amendments, I said that agricultural producers would be in a position to pursue their interests in a administrative dispute. You said it didn't say anything and that's why I should apologize to these people. However, according to the Government's explanation, "Amendman is not accepted because the existing provision provides an opportunity to determine the factual situation in the administrative procedure. '" That's what I said, Mr. Minister, and there are only two variations, one to accept that amendment, the other to apologize to those agricultural producers. As far as this is concerned, there is a question of the justification of these multinational operations, if we ignore for a moment all those political geostrategic, modern and other reasons, let us take only those economic ones, therefore, towards the citizens of Serbia who are in misery and poverty, and you would still make them go and participate in war operations in Iraq and Afghanistan – it is easy for everyone with full bellies, as it is said, 'post praise', but also to think about the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28314	The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28315	Mr. Minister, I'm very surprised you haven't adopted any of the amendments I've made, and if you did, you'd see how much better the laws you've passed. This is the most impoverished amendment for this member. The amendment reads "Article 29 is deleted". Let's analyze Article 29 a little bit together. "The members of the Serbian Army and other defence forces during their participation in a multinational operation are prohibited from: 1) carrying out business and other service activities abroad, except for those related to the logistics support of the joint forces." Imagine a doctor, a surgeon, who you sent there, and by the base where our people are having a car accident, he can't operate because this is forbidden. Furthermore, ''2) any interference in the internal affairs of the host country above the approved mandate of the mission'; and so on. Well, didn't going there alone get mixed up in internal affairs? Is it not the internal affairs of Iraq that NATO has spent tens of years in Iraq? Isn't this stuff in Afghanistan getting mixed up in Afghanistan's internal affairs? "3) arbitrary abandonment or termination of a mission without the consent of the competent authorities". It means that when someone leaves, so they figure out what you did and they want to break up, they can't, they have to serve as much as you sent them. "4) any other action outside the mission's mandate". Most importantly, Mr. Minister, where are the sanctions for those who will violate this sacred letter of yours in Article 29? How will he be the sanctioned doctor who operated? Are you going to put him in jail? How will anyone who interferes with internal affairs be sanctioned? Well, as soon as he gets on the plane and goes there, he should already be sanctioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28316	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP Ljiljana Mladenovic submitted to the 29th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28317	This is another in a series of amendments submitted by the Prosperity Group to Serbia, which suggested that the term "multinational operations" be replaced by the words "peace operation", and to more precisely define the term, because multinational operations include, in addition to humanitarian and combat operations, peace-making operations and it is necessary to replace the words "peace operation". I would like to remind you, Mr. Minister, for a little bit of attention, for an interview you gave on 1 October 2009 on the list of "Time" (I will quote part of the interview): "Practically, all countries of the world that want to have international influence take part in peace operations. I think it's for the Army of Serbia. In the future, my desire is to protect ourselves from global challenges, risks and threats beyond the borders of our country. It is a modern defence system, a system that is applied by all the countries of the European Union, to which we all strive. I would like to remind you that in the 1970s, the activity of the then-Yugoslavia singled out other countries in the region. We had tens of thousands of members of the JNA then who were on peacekeeping missions in crisis areas." This clearly shows that your position 15 days ago was the same as the position of the Serbian Progressive Party, so I'm curious what made you change your attitude, because in this interview you're talking about peace and not multinational operations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28318	Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28319	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know which way to explain the term and need to replace the term "Multinational Operations" with the term "Peace Operations". Not only has our Forward MP club submitted to Serbia a large number of amendments with a proposal to replace this term, but also MPs from other parliamentary clubs have done the same. Repeat the arguments made here in detail, by all MPs, I think it's too high and the viewers have listened to it today. In essence, it is much more appropriate and unequivocal to use a clearer term – peace operations, because they clearly provide the goal of our army's participation in engagement outside our country. Multinational operations, not to repeat the explanation, and the previous interpretation of my colleague, are not completely clear and ambiguous. I counted here - more than 50 amendments are written, filed, about changing terminology. However, they were all rejected and all rejected with the same explanation – calling for the rejected amendment under regular number 1. Not to mention the arguments that countries are Western alliances, America, not only have sophisticated weapons, but in recent years they have a sophisticated dictionary, so they express war, war facts, etc., they don't even use them anymore. All their engagements of a multinational type are called campaigns, peace-preservation operations, so they practically avoid that expression, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28320	It's been two minutes. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Milet Poscurica, to Article 33. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Mileta Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28321	Thank you, in the amendment to Article 33, we are still talking about the need to change the term multinational to peace, and the essence of the member himself is the way in which the service works, in line with what it says, is "the regulations". That wouldn't be a problem, about what we change and want, because we think it's in line with the mandate, maybe the way the service works and the military and the associated units work. When we look retrogradely at all the members we've been through, it's obvious that this change is very important. Then it's typical, but it would bring qualitative change. Already in Article 2 you have the opportunity to see that the Army will be engaged either as a peacemaker or as someone who will already create peace. This differs significantly from the need that Article 3 already needs to be addressed, and there is also a question of the public involvement of military forces. Therefore, in Article 3(1) and (3), we see that it is objective to introduce itself in public. If someone really goes by a general name, by a superior term - multinational operations, why wouldn't it be known that it's a peace operation, a defaulting character, and so it's written? Furthermore, in point 4), respect for contractual obligations regarding security risk assessment – why is this important? They are not the same security risks and are not the same behavior and guidance for the conduct of those who create and create peace with weapons and participate almost in war activities than those who save that peace by side and work in much more casual conditions. After all, there were such situations in the region, which we could see, as well as the differences between pygs keeping and pygs making. As for the next members in which this is once again unequivocally linked, let's say, about the annual plan. The annual plan requires the exact name of the operation, purpose, goal. If it's peaceful, why wouldn't it be called that? We really think that this change, which is consecrating in all the members, would cost nothing, because changing the essence of the law would be beneficial, otherwise changing one member, so that we don't have illusions, would mean nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28322	The 34th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Natasa Jovanovic, a national MP, submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the Head of the 37th Amendment, MP Veroljub Arsic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the Head of the 37th Amendment, the People's Parliament, Aleksandra Jankovic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28323	Thank you very much. So, as the ruling oligarchy relies on NATO's co-operation and accession to the pact, as reportedly the only protector of the defence of the Republic of Serbia, it is good for Serbian citizens to hear, which is precisely from this Chapter IV. and Art. In the 37th and 38th, which I've put the amendment on, they can see how much it's gonna cost us. Therefore, the costs go to the budget: the cost of preparation, participation, return of members of the Serbian Army and other defence forces from multinational operations, as well as the obligations of other legal entities to provide material assistance in relation to the realization of humanitarian operations, are financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. How rich are we, how much money do we have for this, because some experts tell us that since New Year's, we won't have any money in the budget or pensions, let the citizens themselves judge, and let you think about whether this sort of thing and these costs can be projected at all in any of our next budgets, considering our overindebtedness? But here, let's see what we need to give the money for. We need to secure and get the equipment and equipment ourselves. We have to pay compensations in accordance with the applicable regulations to those involved in these multinational operations. Costs of travel, departure and return to the country, too. Then, repair and maintenance of the technique, insurance costs for all participants, sanitary security, treatment costs abroad and the country and damages costs. Furthermore, the compensation to third parties for damage done during a multinational operation, total purchase costs, post-mortem equipment, the funeral organization of a person who lost his life in a multinational operation, the preparation of official documents... .
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28324	Two minutes. Thank you. The 39th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment, the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28325	National MP Verica Radeta suggests that Article 41 of Article 2 says this: "Requirements for the exercise of the rights and obligations of participants referred to in multinational operations until the date of entry into force of this law for which no decision of the competent authority has been taken will be settled in accordance with the rules under which they were acquired", and the Government's proposal is that it can, 'and if it is more favourable for them, under the provisions of this law'. In an explanation of why the amendment is not accepted by the Government – for the reason that the proposed solution regulates equality in the exercise of rights, obligations and responsibilities of all participants in multinational operations, on the date of entry into force of this law. This argument is absolutely acceptable, and if such a solution were in the law, we would certainly not have any objection to such a solution, because certainly the law should apply to those who have previously acquired this right if it is more favourable for them, but in order for these conditions to be obtained then this Article 41(2) would have to be accompanied by Article 197. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 146(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And to understand what I'm talking about, I'm going to remind you that Article 197 speaks about the ban on the return of the law and other general acts, and this is, the lawyers know, precisely the feedback fact and the Constitution allows it to be possible – 'Extremely, only certain provisions of the law can have a return fact, if this warrants a general interest in the adoption of the law. ''And of course it is not controversial, but it is also necessary for the proposal to be in accordance with Article 146. The Rules of Procedure, which says that when the law contains such provisions that it must be the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28326	Time. Thank you. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? The government has accepted this amendment, but since it is not the parent board, it will be declared in the National Assembly's voting day. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28327	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, apparently that the government that gave its reasons did not understand the essence of our amendment. With this amendment, we intervened because Article 43, paragraph 2, of the Assembly’s authority, which is otherwise provided for in the basic law, is the Law on Defence, which is deleted by this law, which is nevertheless the law. It's legally possible, Mr. Minister, but it's not very common. Especially, Mr. Minister, what we are voting for amendments to the Defense Act at the same session. Well, why weren't those changes in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act? If we really want to go into the details, it doesn't quite match the argument given by the government. Even when this is accepted and this argument will not apply, because it explains that "The National Assembly exclusively decides on the use of Serbia's military outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia and not other defence forces. '"I know, Mr. Minister, that you cannot agree with what it says in the explanation, too, and no one in this assembly. And if you make this change, then the National Assembly will decide, not only on the Army, but on all other defense forces. Our intervention was in this sense not to allow laws in this assembly, to say, the basic laws change, and in both these changes are about the ingenuities that this assembly has. That's why we suggested erasing. It is absolutely unnecessary to delete those two points in art. 9 and 12. Reason – that this law specifies things, is fine, but if there is a Annual Plan, it is approved by the Assembly. So she still decides everything, what you said after all. So I don't think this explanation is right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28328	Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to make the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Military Security Agency and the Military Information Agency (data) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Vladan Batić, Bozidar Delić, Mićo Rogović, Veroljub Arsić, Stefan Zankov, Zoran Antic, Zoran Babić, Saša Maksimović, Otto Kišmarton, Mileta Poskurica, Jelena Budimirović, Milan Knezevic, Dejan Mirić, Čedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milić, Zoran Ostojić, Vesna Pešić, Ivan Andrić, Kenan Hajdarević, Aleksandar Martinović, Boris Mirović, Dragan Stevanovic, Sreto Perić, Mirko Munić, Ljubisa Petović, Milan Žalovran Žarić, Miračić and Mirić. You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before I read who is the applicant of the amendment to Article 2 to remind the MPs of the time left for presidents, i.e. authorised representatives or parliamentary groups: The United Pensioners of Serbia Party – the total time for the president and five minutes for the Parliamentary Group; the Parliamentary Group of Minorities – total time; the Parliament Group of New Serbia also used the time for the authorised representative and time of the Parliamentary Group; the Liberal Democratic Party – four minutes for the authorised representative, four minutes and 25 seconds for the Parliamentary Group; the Socialist Party of Serbia – Unity Serbia – the total time for the authorised representative and the Parliamentary Group; the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia – time for the authorised representative three minutes and 30 seconds, used the entire time of the Parliamentary Group; the Democratic Party of Serbia-Vojslav Kostunica – 30 seconds for the authorised representative of Serbia – and the 6 minutes for the group of Members and the group sent by the group of Members and the group of Members of the former members of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia, and the group of Kosovo, and the group of the former members of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic, and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the group and of the Republic of the Republic of the group of the group of the Republic of the Republic of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the group of the Republic of the group of the group of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the group of the group of the group of the Republic of the group of the Republic of the group of the group of the group of the group of the Republic of the Republic of the group of the group of the Republic of the group of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the group of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28329	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government allegedly wanted this bill to create a single system of authorities and services dealing with intelligence and counterintelligence in the Republic of Serbia, but the unique system was not set up for one single reason. In 2002, the Security Information Agency Act was passed and the agency was defined as a special organisation, independent, not in the membership of any ministry. This year, the government is proposing a law on the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency, but they are not defined as special organisations, but as authorities within the Ministry of Defence. The question now raises what is a unique service system where BIA is defined as a special organisation outside any ministry, VBA and VOA have been defined as management bodies within the Ministry of Defence. So, if the government really intends to create a single system, it must accept our amendment and that BIA, VBO and VOA have a unique legal nature, so be special organizations, which is also logical, which is in accordance with the Law on State Administration, the Ministry of Defence. Everything else leads to full disintegration of the intelligence and counterintelligence system in the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28330	And an additional notice for the interpretation of the amendments in a time of two minutes for each applicant of the amendment – there are 84 minutes left. National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28331	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 of Article 5, on Section 5 of the proposal: ''In my work, VBA and VOA are politically and ideologically neutral. "And in our amendment, Amendment 5 reads this: "In their work, VBA and VoA are independent and free from the formal and informal influences of any political party in the Republic of Serbia and abroad. '"Look what's wrong here. If we say that they are neutral and independent of any ideological concept, it's okay if it's party ideology. But patriotism is also ideology. The minister came out last time and said that the party was something else, different from the nation, etc. The basic word patriotism is the Greek word – Patris, which means father. If you translate that into English, it'll be Fadreland. So, the patrician homeland of our fathers. Don't get that out of your mind. Members of the VBA and the VOA must have developed patriotic consciousness, so that this does not happen, Mr. Minister, see what members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are doing. On one propagandous material promoting the NATO Pact, they put a NATO pact star on the Serbian coat of arms, threw out the cross, kept four glasses, put on a NATO pact star. This is the ideology that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is leading us to. It's giving up our traditional values. I think the Serbian Orthodox Church should also plead on this matter. This is a kind of promotion of paganism, that you throw out a traditional Serb symbol – a cross, a NATO pact star, retain four glasses and lead us to Europe, lead us to the NATO Pact. You should be ashamed of this! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28332	National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our amendment has been submitted within the framework of other amendments that we have submitted to previous laws, and it aims to distinguish between this policy that leads us to the NATO Pact and the policy that leads us to neutrality. In this sense, we pay attention and point to this attitude towards the signs and symbols of the Serbian Army. As we know, these signs and symbols are now consistent with those in the West, more specifically with the NATO Pact. We don't think that's good, that's hasty. We do not insult anyone and claim that there are no arguments about joining the NATO Pact, but it does not need to be drawn from the context. For example, Greece as a member of the NATO Pact reportedly had only benefits in economic terms, that is not true. Because Greece had benefits from the European Community, not the NATO Pact. As for the NATO Pact, in 1974, as you know, Greece was in the NATO Pact, yet Turkey invaded northern Cyprus and expelled 200,000 Greeks. It's been about four decades since then and nothing's changed. In that sense, it can be a lesson to our current government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28334	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28335	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment proposed that the word 'extremism' be deleted from this article and our intention is based on the fact that experience tells us that today extremism in Serbia is, above all, a political and ideological category, and not to say, a category of security and intelligence. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. I'll try to get through a very specific example from the part of Serbia from which I come to present it. Namely, I come from the Pcinj County, not from the Presevo Valley, as some like to say, in which there are two forms of extremism. Although they are present, it is not evident that the state is responding in this respect and in this context and this service that we are talking about today, through this item of the agenda, but also some other security services, which deal with the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. The first extremism is Shipar, which almost works through official state institutions in the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac, through local authorities of self-government, and the other, which recently reported, gentlemen from the government, appeared in the territory of the municipality of Bosilegrad. It comes from one state, the truth, by volume and intensity is smaller and at this point perhaps more harmless than the one that is being promoted to these two municipalities, but comes from Bulgaria and has been observed and registered in the territory of the municipality of Bosilegrad. There certain extreme groups have been operating for several weeks or months back very publicly and openly, and are trying to bring unrest among citizens, who have so far lived in very correct and decent relations. On the other hand, there's a fact going on in the country...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28336	Two minutes. Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28337	The amendment requires that VBA and VOA participate in the detection and collection of evidence in co-operation with the police and the public prosecutor's office and other competent authorities. The question arises why is he running away from co-operation with regular investigative authorities and law enforcement authorities? Is it in everyone's interest that every crime, wherever it has been committed, is revealed and properly solved? If that's really in everyone's interest, then there's no need to run away from this amendment, or maybe someone's been distracted by how some individual crimes were discovered and investigated during NATO aggression. Gentlemen of the government, when a young officer came to the great leader of the Suvors in his time and told him that a village should be attacked, because, according to his assessment in that attack, he would not have killed more than five people, the great leader told him – and would you, young sir, agree to be one of those five? I ask all those who are so hearty to join the NATO Alliance, would you be so hearty that one of your loved ones died in NATO bombing or something happened to him, like tens of thousands, so I can say hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens? Indeed, the wounds are very sad and painful and should not be played with the feelings of Serbian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28338	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28339	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 6(4) of the Law proposal and suggested that, after the words of the archive, the text of the proposal should be deleted from the words - the publication of its own publications. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I must stress that in article 6. The bill describes the dealings and tasks of the VBA and the VOA. Point 2) provides that both services can publish their own publications, which draws personal experience from the ministry, which must remain a state secret. I ask the Minister, do you, on the basis of this article, intend to publish guidelines on the work of the VBA and other confidential data from previous practices? Is it known to whoever wrote this text that the VOA has been networked for 20 or 30 years and that there are probably associates in the system from other countries? Publishing any data would endanger the security of not only employees in the service and foreign associates, but also the entire security of the Republic of Serbia. I'll give you one example, in 1992, at about two o'clock in the night, two highly-quoted officers from the aforementioned services came to my apartment. They asked me to go with them immediately to a military facility, and I'm keeping all of this, indeed, as a state secret, in order to agree and take urgent action. What was it really about? A co-worker of another country's service has received information that airports are being prepared in one neighbouring country to accept NATO aircraft that were supposed to bomb Serbia. It was during the period when Milan Panic was the president of the federal government. Now I ask you, if I or these officers were to publish that information, what would happen?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28340	Two minutes. Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28341	To Article 7?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28342	A consultation with the government's representatives. The government has accepted your amendment. They're just asking me if you know. The MP has the right to debate in particular because the committee responsible has not decided, so he will vote. You have the right to your two minutes. The misunderstanding was with the government's representative. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Zoran Nikolic together submitted the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Zoran Nikolic together submitted the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? The government has also accepted this amendment, but the committee is not, the MP has the right to use his two minutes. No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28343	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, in Article 11. The law we are discussing in particular is said in paragraph 3: "In case there is a choice between several specific procedures and measures, a measure will be applied which affects less the Constitution of guaranteed human rights and freedoms". I gave this position, on behalf of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, an amendment that reads: "In the event that there is a choice between several special procedures and measures, a measure will be applied that guarantees that human rights and freedoms are not affected by the Constitution." Thus, the Constitution is the highest state act and equally binding for all citizens, but thus the highest act guaranteeing rights and freedoms. It is not allowed that any state institution can undo anything that is guaranteed by this act by a citizen-in-one. No special procedures or measures shall be carried out unless they comply with the Constitution. So this attitude really doesn't make sense to me. How can the Constitution be broken more or less? Either it breaks or it doesn't break. You either respect human rights or you don't respect them. I ask you to accept this amendment and so perhaps unwarrantedly break up and diversify the prejudices that exist among the citizens that the military, so to speak, the secret services have not opened up, unlike the BIA, whose work is nevertheless a little more accessible to the public and to the citizens. So, I repeat, in the position of Article 11, you wrote, "In case there is a possibility of a choice between several special procedures and measures, a measure will be applied that affects less." So it's possible to apply the measure that goes into breach of the Constitution. I understand, perhaps a little more than you think, Mr. Minister, and I signed a statement there, but at least this shouldn't have been written like this. Here you literally claim that the Constitution can be violated, but we cannot now build more or less. That's why I think this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28344	Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28345	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. We ask that in Article 12(2) of the word "Minister of Defense" be replaced by the word "Government". What's this about? Therefore, Article 12 lists the specific procedures and measures for the secret collection of data from the jurisdiction of the VBA, including covert surveillance in eight, nine variants and some operational breach in the organisation, and so on, irrelevantly. In any case, that position 2 that we ask to change reads: "Application of special procedures and measures set out in Article 1 is governed by the defence minister". We're looking here to replace these words with the word "Government." For what? Look, the Secretary of Defense himself showed the need for this kind of change the other day. If you remember when he referred to the SRS MP, Mr Skrbic, Mr Skrbic mentioned that the activists of our party came and handed over some petition to the Ministry of Defence, and then the defence minister said he was checking out information about these people and that he found that some of them were not serving the military and I don't know what else. So, in fact, the defence minister, that this is a legal and democratic state, has resigned in these words because it is an abuse of official office. You cannot verify personality data, as you know, personality data are a constitutional category, their protection is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You can't check them and use them for scopartial interests, therefore, that you're breaking up with some SRS MP or any other politician. That's the problem. You're abusers of position. You use your position to check these data and use them for your party's needs. That's it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28346	The amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this Article 13, we have proposed that the special procedures and measures laid down in Article 12 of this Law be taken on the basis of the orders of the Director of the VBA or of the person authorised by him and added here "with the prior consent of the Government". Of course, our proposal here is not based on the fact that we trust the government, but this is what we wanted to show that we are giving and we want to respect the institutions first of all. You will see, Mr. Minister, if you are interested in this, when there is a law on the confidentiality of data in this assembly, in which direction will the amendments of the SRS, which we have just wanted to give to civil control of certain things that are happening in this area, from the government to Parliament. This isn't the first time this has happened. This is a practice that has been established in Serbia since this parliament adopted the laws of the so-called modern construction, where you want somehow from the public's eyes everything that the public doesn't need to see or anything that can create space for some possible manipulation to get away from civilian supervision or from an authority that could prevent it, that is, to act the same way. One more thing, Mr. Minister, I was just saying it, you weren't present, some of your associates listened to it with a mockery – a kind of extreme activity of some groups on the territory of the municipality of Bosilegrad appeared on the territory of the Pcinj County. I inform you and draw your attention, the services you control do not work or are not up there, it would not be bad in the interests of the Constitutional Order of the Republic of Serbia that you are interested in this area and those citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28348	The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 14. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Bozidar Delic uses the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, three minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28349	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, the essence of our interventions and in Art. 12, 13, and 14 are in the following: here are measures and procedures and special measures and procedures for secret data collection divided into two groups. The first group and its application is decided by the Director of the VBA, the second group is decided by the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Our proposal was to move from Article 12, point 5, to the category in which the President of the Supreme Cassation Court decides. Practically, that change as we predicted in Article 12 we followed that change in the same way in all the other members where these measures were discussed. The reasons we have received for not adopting this amendment are also not acceptable, because the explanation is that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons of point 5), and we have not mentioned point 6 at all, and here points 5) and 6 of Article 12 are said. The bill refers to preventive measures in the area of security. It's a dispute here that in a small extent, human rights are intruded. That scope of human rights has been disputed here. We believe that our proposal is quite fine, and that point 5 should be in the category of measures decided by the Supreme Cassation Court. It is always disputed, later in the arguments and other members, it is said that this measure is affected by human rights. Can human rights that are guaranteed by the Constitution be affected at all? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28350	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic; Miroslav Petkovic and Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28351	We asked this amendment to delete Article 19, paragraph 1, with the reason that it is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to restrict appropriate rights to certain categories of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in particular the right to privacy, for the reasons they work in the Ministry of Defence or in the Serbian Army. The logical question arises – for whom and in whose interest do individuals who are in key state functions work? Some of them openly advocate, for example, for Serbia's NATO pact entry. Speaking of the NATO Pact, Mr. Minister, you've probably heard about that saying -- that a frog from the well claims that the sky is just as big as the well's opening. All those who favor Serbia's entry into NATO pact in their hearts should know that the sky over Serbia is much bigger than the opening of the NATO well, that the state of Serbia is indeed one state that can or cannot make some decisions, but only in a referendum. It's the only way to make some decisions, otherwise, with no individual will. Any other solution would be exclusively legal violence against the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. Republika Srpska and Serbian citizens have had enough violence, especially by those in whose arms some want to push us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28352	People's MP, I remind you of the obligation to discuss the subject of the agenda and I warn you to stick to the discussion of the details, or respect for the Rules of Procedure that equally obliges us. The Messengers of the people earn that the Messenger of the people, Mirko Munjic, respected the Rules of Procedure. If that were the case, I wouldn't have warned him. So, please, let us take seriously what we want together, which is respect for the rules of the Rules of Procedure. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Dragan Šormaz, Zoran Nikolic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28353	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have tabled an amendment to Article 21(1), and I have suggested that, after the word "secret co-operation", instead of a point, I put an end to it and that the words "unprovided that this does not endanger the rights and freedoms, or harm third parties". The government says - it does not accept, because it is in line with Article 41. However, Article 41 refers to Article 12. Article 12, as you know, provides for measures, controls and procedures that can cause a number of harmful consequences to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if this bill is adopted. In Article 12. The bill provides for measures, nine measures and procedures – secret procurement and purchase of documents and items. These are very dangerous things. They predict that these measures can be applied in the process of collecting certain data and operational activities of military intelligence, counterintelligence, not to mention. This is not in agreement, please, with the Constitution. He's not in agreement with the Criminal Procedure Act. There may be a number of abuses here. In the case of honest people, there will certainly not be, who apply this law, making sure that the Code of Criminal Procedure, as a system code, has to be respected, and in particular that several authorities, above all, military authorities, are involved, then, the approval to give the Casation Court, and in practice we have had a number of abuses, that some judges have given powers to listen, monitor, electronic and tonic recording, indeed there have been a number of abuses. I assume that the military authorities will respect the Constitution, respect the Code of Criminal Procedure as a system code and will oppose and resist abuses such as those of 1966, which was done by Ubod, and beyond, in order for our citizens to enjoy full rights. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28354	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 22nd amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28355	The essence of this amendment was, if special legal persons can be formed, as provided for in Article 22(6) to carry out certain tasks, that they still need someone, so to speak, to submit reports. Our supplement consists of, on the business of these legal entities, the Director is reporting to the National Security Council. It's not accepted. The argument also does not stand, as the argument states that the amendment is not accepted for reasons that it does not comply with Article 5. The law on the basis of the security arrangements. Here's the law, in my hand, on the basics of the security service. I say, this argument does not stand, for the amendment is fully in line with Article 5(2) and points (4) and (6). Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28356	National MP Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to the 23rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28357	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 23 paragraph 6 of the VBA and VOA Act and suggested that the word "observation" be replaced by the word "tracking". In order to better inform Serbian citizens, I would draw attention to the fact that Article 23 mostly regulates issues related to the authority of the VOA officials. That mentions about nine points, which I wouldn't really make any remarks about. But I fell for point 6 where it was not clear to me the meaning of the word “observation. ” I tried to find that word in a Serbian dictionary, but I couldn't find it. I found only the meaning of the Latin verb observation, observation or observation, which is often used in medicine, which has the same meaning as the word "observation" in Serbian. In my amendment, I proposed that, in the spirit of preserving our Serbian language, the word "observation" be replaced by the word "tracking" and recommended that at least in the proposals of the law, which it delivers to the Assembly, we do not put foreign words, when we have in our language our own expressions that are much more precise. It may be understandable that a Latin dictionary is used in medicine, in the aviation industry by another, who is widely accepted worldwide, but all countries of the world still cultivate their language and their culture, and in their laws do not use foreign words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28358	Members of Parliament Dragan Šormaz, Miroslav Petkovic, Zoran Nikolic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic submitted the 23rd amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28359	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian government seems to have deliberately tried to put as many foreign words into the bill as possible, and as many foreign senseless words as possible, which, in the context of the bill, mean nothing. I said in the principle debate, consulting Milan Vujakli's famous "Lexicon of Foreign Words and Expressions", which is unsurpassed in our literature, on the term "proliferation" is used only in two sciences, in biology and in botany. In biology, it means that cells multiply by dividing, and in botany, it means that buds break out on some parts of the plant where it's not common. If this has anything to do with illegal imports and arms distribution, I'd like to ask, honourable representatives, for the government to explain it to me a little bit more. Of course, it doesn't matter. So, the government probably wanted to say that VBA and VOA are preventing illegal imports and arms distribution into the Republic of Serbia, that is, through the Republic of Serbia. Now the only question is, why didn't they write it like that, but they use the term "proliferation", which in this context doesn't mean anything, and the whole bill makes it funny. If you think you're smarter when you use a foreign word that has no place in the context of what you want to say, then you're wrong. So Serbian literary expressions should be used wherever they can be. Where you can't, where it's common to use an international expression, it can be acceptable. But in addition to the word "import" and "distribution" to use the term "proliferation", which has exclusively biological-botanic meaning, it's really funny. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28360	National MP Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to the 25th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28361	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that argument that I gave regarding Article 6(4) of point 2) is exactly the same, because the exact same text in Article 25, point 8) is the difference in the fact that in point 6 the tasks and tasks are carried out by the VBA, while in Article 25 are being carried out by the VOA. It would be too much to give the same text of reasoning. Otherwise, he'd be exactly the same as he is for one case and the other. We ask and demand that words be deleted – "and publish their own editions", so as not to endanger the security of the Republic of Serbia, employees and foreign VBA associates. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28362	The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28363	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. As you said, the amendment is to Article 27(2). I will read this point: ‘Special procedures and measures referred to in Article 1 shall be taken on the basis of the orders of the Director of the VOA or the person authorised by it.’ We have proposed to delete the point after this last word, add a comma and state – "with the previous consent of the Government". So this is also important for civilian control. You swore civil control, democratic control, the functioning of the rule of law, the rule of law, etc. Since I can't convince you of legal terminology, Mr. Minister, I'll try to convince you of examples from practice. What happened to other security services when certain powers were misused? See, in 1956, April 18, he was the first man to visit the United Kingdom, head of the Soviet Union. One of the agents of the English intelligence service MI6, who served as a role model for the creation of James Bond, Lionel Buster Krab, began, on his own time or on someone's orders, to check, investigate, take covert control of the ship that arrived in Khrushchev. Look, he dived and dived, but he never dived. That's the problem. So his family claimed that he had an order for such a thing, the Ml6 agents said he had no order for such a thing, etc. In order for that not to happen with us, it is best that you accept this amendment, that the government be involved, that it too does something. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28364	The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic, who was accepted by the government. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28365	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment provides that, in Article 31 paragraph 5, the information and information if it is not from the jurisdiction of the security service of the VBA and the VOA, it is necessary to immediately destroy them within 30 days, provided that we have provided for this amendment to be: "Such as the data and information contained in the written form". I can accept your explanation for refusing the amendment. We predicted here, the fact is that data can be both in electronic form and in some other forms. What is not an extenuating circumstance here and what can objectively worship the Government and the Proposer, is attitude 3, in which you say again that it will be called to the Data Secrecy Act, which has not yet come before the Serbian Parliament's MPs. What is indicative is the fact that he is not coming, which is that for some reason there has been a conflict between the Commissioner for Public Information and the Working Group that wrote the law. There is an impression in the public that there is a serious debate about the crucial problems in this law, and behind this debate and in the shadow and debate, the legislator of the law has made a lot of progress that will objectively, even if we have full confidence in you in this government, create a problem for you and all those officials and services that will be bound to implement and implement this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28366	National MP Jelena Budimirovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28367	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have provided that Article 34(1) is amended and that it reads: "VBA and VOA at least once a year, and at the request of authorised entities and more often, deliver reports, information and assessments of the importance of defending the President of the Republic, the Government, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Chief of Staff of Serbia." Therefore, in order to protect the defence and security system of the Republic of Serbia more effectively, it is necessary to provide for the obligation of the VBA and the VOA to deliver their reports to the government as well as to the National Assembly's Defence and Security Committee. On the other hand, it is extremely unfounded for the defence minister to treat him isolated from the government and give him some exclusive rights in relation to the other members of the government. If we also consider that the Prime Minister himself is also the deputy president of the National Security Council, which was defined by the Law on the Foundations of the Security System of the Republic of Serbia, it is absolutely in the beginning and means that he is under the authority of the defence minister, because the defence minister in the council is only a member. Because of all of this, the Defence and Security Committee has been kind of dissuaded by this bill. The Assembly has been expelled from the VBA and VOA information system. The need to set up a sweat – what about analyses, studies, conclusions, expected and exposed hostile action, since these are documents by which the council is competent, the Authority can make a decision of the most important importance for the state? For this reason, it is necessary to include both the Assembly Committee and the Competent Body, more specifically the Republic of Parliament, so that these reports can also be discussed on the Committee itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28368	Parliamentarians Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milic, Zoran Ostojić, Vesna Pesic, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28369	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, when I look at how much the amendments of my colleagues to Batic have been accepted, I understand, the advantages of moving from this side to that side, but, come on, let me be serious. This member of the law says that the secret military service of the VBA and the VOA regularly, if necessary and upon request, submit their reports to the president of the state, the defence minister and the Chief of Staff. We're proposing and we really don't understand why the Prime Minister was expelled. Somehow, it seems to us that, as with the law on sending the army outside Serbia, where the Parliament is cut off, that this law is the end of the government, because the Prime Minister is the Government. If the Prime Minister doesn't get regular reports, because they're mentioned on a regular basis, they're daily, let's say now one example, let's say, he can receive guests or talk to someone who may or may not be going through some kind of report, and he doesn't know that. The government's explanation is, as I say, formally. It calls for the State Administration Act and the Security Service Act. I really don't understand why the government would opt out, and the government is the Prime Minister. And I heard some arguments that the Prime Minister wasn't in the command line. There's no defence minister on the command line either. If you were looking at the command line, it would be just the president of the state and the Chief of Staff. Minister, you're the head of the department's management, you're not the commander. I'm not saying the president of the state shouldn't win, but it's logical that your boss, by the authority of the Prime Minister, should get those reports, too. Not to say that it might have a basis for such reports to be received by the President of the Assembly, because under certain circumstances, the Constitution says that he assumes his duties as acting officers. No one wants that to happen. We did not propose an amendment for the President of the Assembly, but the Prime Minister, absolutely, must receive regular reports from us. I really don't think it's appropriate for the government to not win as an executive authority. That's why we're not suggesting that it be just a command line, we suggest that it be this one as well. Yes, you should get it, it's not controversial, after all, those services are part of the ministry, but your boss, the Prime Minister, also needs those reports to get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28370	National MPs Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Zoran Nikolic submitted together to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government has accepted the amendment of Srete Periæ. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to Article 37. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28371	With this amendment, we asked for the directors of the VBA and the VOA and their deputies to be appointed persons with high professional training and at least 12 years of work experience. When I speak in the context of amendments to some frog, I allow the possibility to create some associations. But it was really in the context of the amendment and it was really a frog from the well. It's always been hard and it's gonna be hard to pick the directors and vice directors of VBA and VOA. We're here for professionals with more work experience, because, as you say, a smart man learns more from the enemy than he learns from friends. Serbia has a lot of friends in the world, but there are a lot of those who are not or who only represent themselves as friends, and that they are not, because they are working against Serbian national interests. If the best criteria for selecting directors and deputy directors of VBA and VOA are established, we will also have real and experienced professionals, highly educated and wise people. Know that one who knows what is necessary at a certain time is wise, not one who knows much. That's why we should accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28372	The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. This amendment has been accepted by the Government. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 38th amendment. This amendment has been accepted by the Government. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28373	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The 47th article reads: "A person who suffers certain consequences during the secret co-operation with VBA or VOA has certain problems, has the right to do so as a member of the VBA or VOA". Now, look, we've predicted that Article 47 of Section 1 of the "secret" word is deleted. There's a possibility that someone who doesn't co-operate secretly, let's say, who sees a certain group of terrorists lurking around a military facility, so he goes, warns a security officer and tells him -- sorry, you have terrorists at that location, so, God forbid, you have certain consequences. What's going to happen to that face? He won't have any rights. That's the problem. It's like you're used to this secret collaboration. I know you've completed the FBI course, but the problem with the FBI is that for a long time, their director was Edgar Hoover, the man responsible for the liquidation of hundreds of people on U.S. soil. Who accused them of being communists, like this. Look, his right-hand man is Mark Felt, the man who set up the Watergate affair, the man who was overseeing US President Nixon, so where did the FBI get the data from what the closest associates of President Nixon were doing? These are examples of practice again. You can see the abuse of the official position. Now, that's Mark Felt's radio. Then he instructed reporters in the U.S. to make the Watergate affair and Nixon was then eliminated. And you think about who came after him. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28374	Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word. Here you go. National MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28375	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article 48th is located in the Chapter – legal, material and other assistance to members of the VBA and VOA, persons with whom permanent co-operation has been established. We have suggested that this point 1 be deleted in Article 48. Of course, we believe that this is the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Criminal Code. The explanation I received, which rejected the amendment, states that there is no disfellowshipped right for those persons to choose a legal representative. We didn't challenge that, but we're contesting the right of the VBA and the Voa to give. And you know how this works when it comes to "right to choose." We dispute their right to impose or offer lawyers, because, Mr. Minister, you will agree with me, you and your political councils at the end of the 1990s or early 2000s, when you came to power, among other things, you were building your political success, in principle, on convictions and criticisms just like these, manners and principles from the 1990s, as you called them. They were unacceptable to you at the time, and now you've defined yourself as one. That is why the SRS has expressed doubts and is demanding that this member be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28376	The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 49. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Šormaz, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. The government has accepted this amendment. The 54th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Bozidar Delic has submitted his application, but has 15 seconds from the time of the authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28377	I'll just say it as soon as I can. The explanation given absolutely does not stand, not a single word. The second thing, Article 54(4), is not in line with the Law with the basics of the Security Service, Article 18(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28378	National MP Zoran Ostojic has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28379	Since I have a little time left, I would just in principle say that this set of laws is a step forward, that we are sorry that some of the objections we have not been adopted. We think the laws would be better with them. Our biggest regret is to avoid setting ourselves up according to the NATO Pact. Simply, even the minister in some authorial text cites arguments that now is not the time and that a decision has been made somewhere that the measure of current co-operation with NATO's Partnership for Peace Pact, but all the arguments that you ministers have cited for the NATO Pact. On the other hand, you are talking about a declaration or resolution on military neutrality, which is another declaration or resolution that mentions this military neutrality, and how the Assembly can bring one, can the other and the third, etc. This is where they were heard today, talking more about viewers, arguments against the NATO Pact and against membership in the NATO Pact. I must say that most of these arguments are in favour of the interests of another country, not Serbia. Serbian state and national interests in NATO membership are both political and military and economic and security. And, after all, that resolution that mentions military neutrality in one sentence is a dead letter on paper, unless other countries recognize it. Gentlemen, we can bring a resolution that Serbia should send a man to the moon, and possibly be a Serb, but believe me, with that resolution, there would be no Serb on the moon. Therefore, so is that resolution of yours. I don't see why someone's time has been measured - either since the birth of Christ or from February 21st, or from a resolution on military neutrality. Otherwise, as they are already calling for the interests of another country, defending the country's interests, not Serbia, I should remind them that the country opposes NATO's expansion to the East, and Serbia's NATO membership would be NATO's expansion to the West. Therefore, even the country has no problem spreading NATO to the West. We regret that there is a member in the Military Act who prohibits members of the professional composition from being involved in the activities of the NGO sector dealing with military reform. We think it kind of shuts down. It may be the result of the minister's anger on some NGOs, because they've been taking the wrong side a while ago, but we think it's bad and we expect it to change. I think it's stupid to forbid it by law. You can always, on the principle of subordination, forbid professionals to participate in these activities, but putting it in the law is not good. In any case, this could have been better, but simply in that is the difference between us and you in the government, us from the LDP – we would have been faster and more, you would have slowly, you say – surely, and therefore you are the authority and we are the opposition, but not for long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28380	At the disposal of MP Zoran Ostojic, he has four minutes and 30 seconds left. I ask the People's MPs not to earn it, it is his right to use four minutes and 30 seconds whenever he wants. National MP Dragan Shormaz. Time available for six minutes and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group and 30 seconds from the authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28381	More than enough. I think we've said a lot today on all these topics that Mr. Ostojić spoke about. As for these amendments, which the DSS has given to the Military and Military Intelligence Act, one amendment has been accepted, the others are not. We think you should have accepted those others because they're a good solution. This solution is what Police Minister Dragan Jocic has put as the Inspector General, is now accepted here, but well, I'm not surprised, you said it's a man you respect more than the rest of us in the DSS, so it's no wonder you accepted a solution that's actually his amendment, and I just signed him here. I say again, one last doesn't make spring. This does not significantly correct this law, according to the public in the public debate, will not improve civilian control over these two military agencies, one of which is often apostrophe as an agency that has the most problems in co-operation with The Hague tribunal years ago, which is why we are witnesses. It seems to us that in no way will it be reformed, nor controlled enough, by this law that has been proposed, that we would have as a civil, modern, democratic, civil society, everything we should do. On the other hand, I have to look back at other things that have been said in this debate. There is no political or economic or security reason for Serbia to enter the NATO pact. Conversely, our resolution is not ours but all of us, our decision isn't ours but all of us, it's binding for the whole state and it doesn't have yours or ours. The interest of another country is certainly not defended, but only by our countries, but we respect traditional and historical ties with the country you think of, and I know you mean Russia, that's what you said when you talked about it. I'll just remind you that the entire Western Europe, even the whole of Europe, has called this space – now someone will say this one is going back a long way, but in the 10th and 11th centuries this space was called Raska or Rasom, this people is called Rashan or Rasima. You translate it into English, so you will see that the term of Serbs was not used at the time, but just the one I'm talking about, so that these old connections and this connection that we have with the Russian state and the Russian brotherly people are no wonder. It would be good to be welcomed in the way Serbs have always treated the distinguished guest, the president of the brother's Russian state, with pleasure, Mr. Medvedev. And you shouldn't talk like this. So, we have privileges, we have co-operation, we are helping the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which is in the hole because of the most incompetent government in Serbia's history. I don't see why anything would be said at the expense of Russia. At the very least, they never threw a stone at us, let alone a bomb enriched with poor uranium, so that one or the other state should not be compared. I repeat, as an MP from the DSS, we should all have good partnership at an equal level, we should not favour anyone at all, but we can be equal partners with those who respect us as equal partners, who don't throw bombs at us, who don't take away our territory, who don't give us conditions, so only those we cooperate with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28382	Time is available for another three minutes. The 54th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28383	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia who are still watching this transmission, on behalf of New Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the 54th on behalf of New Serbia, it is about the Inspector General, therefore, who controls the work of the Inspector General who should oversee these two services. The bill states that the minister is doing so, and New Serbia says it should be done by the competent committee of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and we have proposed that a position 4: "A report be added to the National Assembly's competent committee The General Inspector also submits at the request of at least one third of the members of the Committee on Defence and Security of the National Assembly." What's the point of what I'm saying? The essence of this law should be what it is brought about, whether there is this so-called civilian control of the work of secret military services. So my humble opinion and the party I represent here is that this law will not regulate it. It's not enough that the minister is a civilian to get that control done. I repeat that one service, BIA, has kind of opened up to citizens and the public, and for these two services, I'm not so sure. Given what happened in the previous period, I warn those who have proposed such a law, that in the end, after maybe a decade, both of those people who think this law is good. Some have abused it in the past decade, and Mr. Secretary knows it well, they ended up as they ended up. In these 20 seconds to tell you, when I was a member of the Security Committee, I asked the Director – does he guarantee that his service is not listening to the MPs? He told me he guaranteed it! When asked – does he guarantee me that foreign services do not listen to our messengers, he could not answer me?- I'm sorry. I would like you, Mr. Minister, to answer on behalf of these two services you control. Do they guarantee that foreign services do not listen to the MPs?- I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28384	National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28385	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of our amendments was two things, one of which is Article 12 and those special measures, and the other is the Inspector General, because we think that this is particularly important. If the purpose of the Inspector-General was to ensure the strengthening of that civilian control over the security services, then that purpose was certainly not achieved. If our amendments had been accepted, then it would have been ensured. If we have in the Law on the Fundamentals of Security Services in Article 18, it is regulated that BIA directors, VBA, VOA, submit reports for each regular session, twice a year, we have here in Article 54(4) that the Inspector General delivers a report on its supervision at least once a year to the National Assembly’s competent committee. What benefits do we benefit from that oversight and from his report if he delivers it only once a year? That is why I said that this was not in line with Article 18, because when we in our amendments made some proposals on competences and on the control of the work of the service, it constantly refers to the Security Service Act and the members of 18th and beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28386	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28387	I have to react to my fellow Shormaz's exposure because I don't know what reason he felt called to defend Russia. I mentioned to Russia only in a sentence that it is not opposed to NATO's expansion to the West but to the East, and that's true. On the other hand, Mr. Shormaz, you don't have to prove to me that you love Russia and that you are calling for the 10th century, etc., you best proved that when you voted without a referendum here for Russia – NIS, we are now paying the most expensive gasoline in Serbia. This is certainly not the national interest of the state of Serbia, but is also the national interest of the state of Russia. I understand that someone here is openly talking about how they represent Russia's interests, I don't mind, I'm just saying that Serbia's interests should be under "a," so I guess the interests of another country under "b". In that sense, I think the story, which is repeated here, that there is no reason, no reason for Serbia to enter NATO, just to say that the economic reasons are certainly first. Romania has increased foreign investment by joining NATO by 141%. There's roads, there's hospitals, there's schools. Why do we want to join the EU? Well, that's the way. Political reasons? Certainly NATO is wider than the EU, there are more states. And why does it spread? It's wider for America and Canada. Do we want to be part of that world? You're formally saying we will, and here you say we won't. In essence, Serbia's influence, and even in the fight for Kosovo, as you like to say, would be more significant if we were a NATO pact member, and not to say that we were in the 1990s membership so that it probably wouldn't have happened. So the consequences of the destructive policy that someone still wants to continue or remember with the nostalgia of that policy are disastrous for the people and the state and for the interests of this country. If we are representatives of the citizens of this country, then we should take great care of them rather than the interests of another country. Unlike some colleagues in this room who prepared shoes in case the Vice President of America came for this pay phone, to throw it, certainly that LDP is not such a profile, we respect everyone, including the president of the great Russian Federation. After all, it's not his fault that someone from here gave him NIS, or his state company. We suggested that Russia preserve Kosovo and give them NIS, it doesn't have to be 400 million, and this is how we lost both NIS and Kosovo. We'll run out of power tomorrow. It's not in the national or national interest. Mr. Shormaz, we are fundamentally different. We believe that national interests are best defended when those who are more powerful, which is the West, plays as their interests... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28388	People's MP, replica time has been used. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28389	The Romanians are 140 times the investment, and yet we beat them 5-0 in football. They're having a little fun. Let's cheer up. We'll have so much more investment. First, they did not have them because of the NATO Pact, but because he is an EU member, and only this year they owed 20 billion euros. Secondly, we will have increased investments several dozen times, only to have the government of Vojislav Kostunica again in Serbia, not this incompetent government, because at that time we had four to seven billion annual investments in Serbia. On the other hand, I have not defended Serbia's interests for a moment. I said Serbia's interest is to be a military neutral and part of the EU, but as a whole, with Kosovo and Metohija, and we need to resolve this issue with the EU. I've never defended Russia's interests, Russia defends its own interests enough. All I can say is that if we look at foreign policy, I will always, as a human being, prefer to support the policy led by Russia - the multipolar world, the decision on the basis of international law, co-operation with everyone, not the interventionist policy, where only attack, aggression, bombs are present. I didn't recognize myself in what you said about me shooting Beyden with my shoe, and maybe I should, because he was throwing a bomb at me rich in impoverished uranium. I don't have that bomb on him, and even if I did, I wouldn't throw it at him because unlike him, I'm a civilized Serb, a European who doesn't want to use force, but wants to use force of arguments and rights. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28390	There's a word from MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28391	During these discussions on military laws, many talked about blood, wars – some seem to miss it. In any case, to finish, we differ in the following – we believe that national, state interests are best defended if the West is represented as their interests. The policy of the 1990s and what you want to continue as some sort of continuity has exactly been doing the opposite. She worked next – the interests of a foreign country tried to represent her as a Serbian interest. And finally, we came to where we came -- that we don't know where our borders are, that we are reluctant to gain independence and international recognition, because, let me remind you -- Serbia is a state without a defined southern border, with the will of the Montenegrin people, the citizens of Montenegro, and with Serbia's will. Remember how you cried when Serbia became a state. Therefore, there are many arguments in favour of what I say is Serbia's national interests -- that there are good roads, schools with computers, that there are medicines in hospitals. And there is always another's interest to be represented, and to eat roots, to be subjected to unjust sanctions, but that is the end of it. Therefore, Serbia must be defined, I said in a discussion that it is a complaint to the government, represented here by Mr Sutanovac. He didn't put in strategies – military neutrality and that's good. Because it's a dead letter on paper, but you didn't have the guts to step forward. They're accusing you of being NATO, that you're actually a NATO secret agent. So, if that's the case, Serbia has to decide. Until it decides, it will be scattered. Believe me, anyone who's very disintegrated and a small child can take him down.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28392	There's a word from MP Dragan Shormaz and we're closing a circle of replicas here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28393	We're closing up for sure, except I don't feel at all called '90s and continuity. For that, please contact your SPS colleagues. I really don't know what you're even talking about, in what context you're talking about, me from the DSS. As for the constant story - about the free sold to NIS. Well, that's not true. NIS is well paid, and it turns out to be overpaid. Secondly, sir, the same Russia with US companies is building a brand-new refinery in Panchev for 450m euros, Gazprom Oil and the US company together. What are you talking about? That's what we're talking about, that both the Russians and the Americans and the Chinese work together in Serbia, four pillars, as the president says. Now he remembers! We're not going to the NATO Pact so we can work together on this, and we're not jeopardizing anyone. We don't want anyone to touch us. We want to join the EU as Serbia with borders, which, if you do not understand where they are, I tell you - take and read the Constitution, you are an MP, and the Constitution tells you where the borders are. Don't ask the minister to stand up and say where the southern borders are. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: He doesn't know! I know he knows, he knows they're on the Curse and he'll say they're on the Curse. I know he'll say, unlike LDP MPs, he'll say they're on the Curse. You know where the borders are, you know what Serbia is. Only the EU finds out and tells us, and it's no problem, no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28394	The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic and uses the time of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28395	I could claim a replica, given that Mr. Shormaz often takes the SPS. Mr. Shormaz, unlike your party, the SPS goes forward and looks forward. You've, unfortunately, stopped at that policy of ours and you can't look beyond that. Please don't take the SPS in your mouth without any need. As for Mr Ostojic, it is no wonder that LDP MPs often say in their exhibitions that Kosovo has gone away, that reality is etc. It is a shame, that it cannot be more shameful, for an MP in the Serbian Parliament, because in the constitution, in the preamble of the Constitution, KIM is an integral part of Serbia. You neutralize this diplomatic struggle led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Just stay away from it, let it go. Only if you have committed yourself, by your mentors, and you are often a happily seen guest in Pristina, do not take any further action on the subject – KiM is an integral part of Serbia and the government makes all efforts to make it so. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28396	The right to a replica of the People's Messenger Dragan Šormaz, then the People's Messenger Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28397	I didn't say a single word about the '90s or the SPS, sir. Mr. Ostojic said - you have nothing to say to me about the 1990s, please contact your SPS colleagues! Gentlemen, many look forward, but many have a collar when they look forward, so they see nothing, but in one direction only. You tell me what it's called in English - a line, and how do you say the border? That's what you tell me, because your president doesn't know. He says the Protocol with Eulex says "Administrative Line", and in English it says "bondry". Everyone who knows English knows that's the limit. Now that you defend Kosovo, ask your president what he signed with EULEX, which says "border" and does not say "administrative line"? If you don't, here's to finding out how to write a line, and how to limit it, from all the knowledge you're showing, what you're saying. I do not dispute, let it say "line" but let Dacic deliver it to me, since I asked him as an MP a month ago, a member of the Security Committee, to send me what he looks like in the integral text in English, so we will see whether he writes it or not. Why does it take a month? What's hiding if a month's original text can't come to the National Assembly? What's he hiding from? Forget it in the 1990s, because we with the 1990s crossed the border on September 24, 2000, when Kostunica beat Milosevic in the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28398	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28399	You know what, and the division in one party, which shows that it's difficult to change the temper. You can talk and look into the future, but the past is in your heart and you can see it. What did you do in the 1990s, and how long did you bring the land? Now you're telling me that the Constitution says Kosovo is Serbia. So, does 20 EU member states recognise that Kosovo is Serbia? Do you want to join the EU? You want to be European Socialists – will you? Unlike all of you, LDP is telling the truth. We never said we wanted Kosovo to be independent, but we said it would be. You say that it is not. We do not admit it. Here, we also have military neutrality. Let's make a resolution to go to the moon - and it says on the tarab, so it's not. Look at what you and your policy have done and where your leader ended up – in court, the International Court, because the UN established a court for you and your policy! What about "Ovcara", what about "Srebrenica" - these are the results of your policy, not the defence of Kosovo? Did you defend Kosovo with the folk cuisines you left in Kosovo? People were starving here during your reign. You're ashamed to call LDP so we don't know how to read the Constitution! We defend this constitution much more than you who voted for it for two days. Why didn't you ask for a referendum when you sold NIS with a free contract, now you're looking for it for another international contract. You're itching here and you're talking nonsense and you're attacking LDP. Sir, we want to join the EU and we want this to be a country from which it does not leave as it is in your time. Happy are the lands from which the people do not go, but where others come because they are better in that land than in the land from which they are. The countries where people enter through the woods to engage illegally are happy countries. The countries where young people think about leaving are unhappy. You made Serbia a country like that. You still have the nerve to say that we don't respect the Constitution, that we're not patriots, please. Next time, if you want to start a speech with – we Socialists are looking into the future, then really look into the future. Don't talk about the past, and that past has caught up with you and will catch up with you! Like some others, who have changed as well, so they put on a suit, took off the badge and stopped eating bloody – you will have to prove yourself a lot, many of you European socialists will have to prove yourself. And the president of the DS, however much your relationship is there -- he doesn't run European Socialists.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28400	Minister Dragan Sutanovac has the word, followed by MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28401	At the most, I'd like to ask you to return to the agenda. These laws are very important to us. And the curiosity that is happening in the Serbian Parliament has been debated by the opposition for half an hour, it is truly invisible in parliamentary practice in the world, but it is not the time and time. We have a few more amendments. The laws are very important, and I'd like to get back on the subject, and you really have a chance to argue here on other occasions. It means a lot to us to finish the job today. I'd like to thank you in advance, if you respect me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28402	MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28403	As a young MP, I think it's high time we had this business to regulate the procedure, like sports events when we had doping control, to introduce the alcometers when we entered this hall, because it's obvious that some people here don't know what they're talking about. It's probably the influence of alcohol, because, Mr. Ostojic, the public of Serbia, which is funded by Albanians from Kosovo and whose functions they are in. Don't talk anymore, because today it's a little bit, maybe careless, maybe, but it's just that Kosovo has gone, that it's independent, that it's reality, that it needs to be told to the Serbs. Simply run an anti-constitutional, anti-state policy. Don't make any more noises. I'll take the minister's advice that we should get back to the agenda, but there's something else I have to add. As for Eulexa, signing the agreement, it is symptomatic that certain parties have the same attitude as individual extreme groups led by Alibim Kurti on the matter of Eulex and Serbia's agreement with Eulex. Why is such an attitude of individual parties time will show its own. We're all for the control of this 'administrative line', the flow of goods. I remind you that Kostunica, the president of your party, was a signator when he was prime minister, the CEFTA agreement, on the other hand, UNMIK was signed. There was a 'administrative line', there was a border, goods records, customs payments. The money was poured into the budget of the provisional authorities in Pristina. I don't see any reason for you to claim anything that isn't true. I don't want to get any more of that. This could go on forever. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28404	National MPs Zoran Ostojic and Dragan Šormaz seek the right to replication. I really ask that these two replicas be without further protests, end of exchange and controversy, given that the right to replication is something that the chairman decides and I ask you to carefully choose words when we address each other. It's in favor of all of us. MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28405	Nothing is fitting for us to be insulted. We're both for the alcotest and for the drug test here in the Assembly. Believe me, if it were Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic and he called me, he might have had one brandy, but since Mrkonjic wasn't an honor. And we are Albanian mercenaries, and homosexuals, and junkies, and alcoholics, believe me, such insults are not stronger, such insults are certainly not closer to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28406	National MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28407	With Mr. Mrkonjic, I have on several occasions had a drink of brandy, and I will be happy again, because it is a real Socialist, a socialist who supported the government that signed the CEFTA agreement, but with UNMIK and with UNMIK representative. That's a big difference. That's a huge difference. It's Resolution 1244. Eulex is none of it! That border control we can see how it works, shooting bombs at Bujanovac and Presevo. That border control really works. There's really no drug smuggling, and EULEX is really going to help us. Poor mother to us all, if the Eulex, who works according to Ahtisaari's plan, helps us and we cooperate with him! Sir, when this agreement begins to be fully applied, listen to what you will sign next – a customs agreement, and then there will be a recognition request. Remember, one thing at a time – it goes! Instead of asking for Eulex to leave, and to return UNMIK and vote it out by the Security Council, because Eulex was never voted on by the Security Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28408	The 54th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28409	And just to make sure that no one here has changed, except for one faction that seceded from DS, when, in the end, he would have had brandy with the minister. Mr. Minister, it is very important that this law is in the process, because it begins with a reform of a very important area of security services, but it is only the beginning and this law is responsible for a part of this area. What I would like to point out, which is in line with Mr Markicevic and Mr Delic's story, is what is missing about the provisions of this law, or Article 54 and previous members who speak of the supervision and control of these two services. It is very important that these two services within the Ministry of Defence, because we had a variety of situations, from a time earlier, that this sector was the chief security officer from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that it was also a member of the Atlantic Alliance. It's a pleasure, looking at your record, that I haven't found that you're a member of the Atlantic Alliance, and I hope the intended authorities, and even the supervisory authorities related to this law will not be from that NGO sector, because lately it says that people who pass this NGO are mainly creating a defence policy of the ministry. What did we want with the amendment? In 52nd and 54th, this is the part concerning the lack of civilian control, i.e. that the Serbian Parliament has greater oversight powers, which are the affairs of the Inspector General, and in the amendment we have stated that the Inspector General for his work corresponds to the Serbian Parliament, that he is also obliged to regularly submit a report on the surveillance of the Defence and Security Committee of Serbia and on the invitation to attend the meetings of the Committee on Defence and Security. With this, the existing attitude 4 would be deleted, and the existing attitude 5 would become attitude 4, (Article 54).). I see no reason not to accept a well-intentioned amendment and proof that the reforms of this service continue in terms of...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28410	Time. Thank you. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28411	Using these two minutes, I have to realize that in the past few minutes we have heard, or the citizens of Serbia watching this transmission, who is for NATO, who is for Russia, who is for America, who is for Kosovo, who is for independent Kosovo. I must say, here I represent New Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. And in that sense, I will listen to Mr. Minister's appeal to return to the agenda, if anything, at least because he proved he had recovered from the political knockout he experienced today during the National Assembly session. So it's about the Inspector General. The law says - the procedure for the resolution of the Inspector General can be launched by the government or by the defence minister. The New Serbia amendment suggests that the government, the defence minister or the National Assembly's competent board can do so, given that the civilian control exists. I don't know why anyone's afraid that the responsible Committee on Defence and Security has some authority here, if for nothing else, because of the fact that it doesn't think about the current ruling majority, but whatever the ruling majority is, if it's afraid of something, it has a majority on that committee, as it does in the current defence and security committee. I repeat, there was a bitter and supportive taste in the public and in the professional public, and in some public debates, that this law, knowingly, deliberately or intentionally avoided the civilian control of these two military services. So, the impression is public, maybe I'm not professional enough, that the BIA opened up, and that these two agencies didn't really do it. I don't know why, but he'd feel better, too. I have no objections and no knowledge that he is breaking the law in the functioning of these services. Then why didn't you accept these amendments? That would be proof that you accept civilian control.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28412	The 6rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. This amendment has been accepted by the Government. The 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28413	Mrs. Komic, very briefly, the proposal is to reduce the deadline from 90 days to 60 days. The amendment shall be adopted within 60 days of the date of its entry into force. We believe that this solution is more appropriate than a 90-day solution, proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence. In the end, I could only say that, unfortunately for all those who hate Serbia, Michaelo Pupin was one of the founders of NAKA, who later grew into NASA, and as you know, NASA first sent a man to the moon. So, see, Serbs got involved in the process too. By the way, Michaelo Pupin was a great patriot. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28414	Since we have completed a review of the bill's proposal in particular, I ask if the proposing's representative, Minister Dragan Sutanovac, wants to take the final word? (The Faith of Radeta, from the scene: Did all the authorised representatives take advantage of the time?) ) The word has Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28415	If we all look into the future today and say that we have the same interest in Serbia being a modern country with democratic society, with citizens who can live off their work, we have to say that we want to have an army that can respond to such a society and an army that can respond to modern challenges, risks and threats. The laws discussed in the Serbian Parliament these days, as well as two strategies, are practically the most important laws dealing with the defence system, and we can say with these laws that the reform of the defence system is over. What does that mean for Serbia? This means that Serbia will have a modern and modern army in the future, that we have finally detached the problems involved in the full professionalisation of the Army and that hopefully, within the deadline set, we will complete the professionalisation of the Army and thus make the Army one of the most modern in the whole region. I would like to stress that in these few days we have accepted 32 amendments that have been proposed, that we have considered them to be amendments that are of quality and that have really contributed to the quality of these laws. Unfortunately, many amendments have not been accepted because we believe they are not even treated in the spirit of these laws. What is important to say, we believe that the Ministry of Defence has made one big step or a big step to, regardless of the criticisms that have been addressed here, we are all aware that these laws will bring Serbia an absolutely better and international position. By law on participation in peace operations, or multinational operations, Serbia will have the opportunity to promote its security forces and beyond the borders of our country. And when we talk about borders, Serbia has had a document that treats administrative bondry lines since 1999. The agreement was signed in 1999, and Bondry is not a border, because you didn't get a chance to hear about the bondry policy anywhere, but for the boder policy, Mr. Shormaz, I'm sorry, but that's a fact. Thank you all and cheers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-16-0.u28416	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Before we finish work for today, a few notices. On Tuesday, October 20th, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will hold a special session and all notifications related to the Special Session, except for calls already delivered to MPs, will be forwarded to you through parliamentary clubs. The session that is under way continues on Wednesday, 21 October 2009 at 13.00 hours. The reason for moving the usual Rules of Procedure from 10.00 hours to 13.00 hours is the date of the session. In fact, October 21st is the date when we mark the event "The Great School Hour" of Death in Kragujevac, Šmarice, and many of us want to attend the event. RTS will be in direct transmission. So the session will continue to discuss details of the Bill on Features on Wednesday (October 21st 2009) at 13.00 hours. Thank you, everyone.
