ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32263	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 134 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic system, we're established to be 98, but there are conditions to work. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of MP Milica Radovic. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE COURT OF DECLARITY OF AP VOJVODINA (single details) Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to a 40th member who regulates part of the sport under this law, in fact, sports, in the area of the AP Vojvodina. As I was saying in Article 39, and by Article 40, my amendment reads to be deleted. Not because the SRS is against sports and against such activities in the AP Vojvodina, but because it will also be abused through sports and finance and political points will be obtained through sport, through various visions. Since a member of 39th and a member of the 40th regulates the complete situation around sports, it will also be possible to build fields, they will be able to make and perform new and old, to be renewed, so that in the old practice, as DS did and the entire congregation majority, i.e. and the assembly majority in the AP Vojvodina used such funds for political purposes. I believe that in the field of sport, as I was saying, the very features that are in the AP Vojvodina and local self-government have nothing to do with the Republic of Serbia. That is what MPs who are from other political options, i.e. The opposition. I believe that through sports there will be great abuses, especially in election campaigns, as has happened in previous periods. I would just like to point out that a certain situation is also being put through sports, where the AP Vojvodina, most likely through a certain period, will push into separation from the Republic of Serbia. Who will explain to me, who can tell me, that an absolute region, which has already been signed, as eight municipalities in northern Backah signed a protocol that there will be no autonomy in autonomy? That has a lot to do with sports. Certain political parties, led by the DS, use and abuse sports for political purposes, even try to use the church for political purposes and I believe that abuse of sport is for political purposes. I would like to ask the question - is it possible that after 2002, when the protocol was signed for eight municipalities, i.e. eight municipalities in northern Bačka, where the majority of the Hungarian nation is located, that they will not find a model of how to abuse such a protocol, he will see the light of the days after the adoption of both this law and the statutes of Vojvodina. I find that very devastating and very harmful to the AP Vojvodina. I would like to stress just one more thing for the municipality of Vienna, as I have said and shown, that the coat of arms of the city of Vienna and the flag that was proposed by the Hungarian coalition and certain political forces that are in power in the municipality of Vienna, and today the athletes who defend the city of Vienna will wear such a seal, in fact, wear such a coat of arms, which is the seal of Francis II of the Habsburg monarchy, where absolutely everything else is the same on the coat of arms. I can only say that certain political parties, such as the parties to which the Hungarians belong, are. Hungarian nationalities, I admire how they succeed in achieving their political goals in this way. But I oppose the political parties that are in the coalition with them and the majority of the assembly that have only personal and economic benefits in the Becay municipality. On the other hand, the Hungarian coalition is exercising its rights through such things as this coat of arms, as is the dictionary, the right to education, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32265	You spent two minutes and 50 seconds of the parliamentary group and you had two minutes within the time frame.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32266	I am advocating Article 27 of Item 1 4 concerning the functioning of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and of some committees, i.e. some officials in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I also drew your attention to you, Madam Chairman, because once upon a time you took your right to designate representatives of the SRS in some delegations. You promised you wouldn't do it again. I hope you really don't do it anymore. Looks like some of them started working the same way. They seem to have been hit by some earlier youthful day habits and their notion of democracy. On behalf of the SRS, they designate representatives, or MPs of the SRS in various delegations, so it was November 18th on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, when a delegation for Egypt was appointed, although our MP Momir Markovic specifically told the chairman of that committee that he could not determine, that it is necessary to deliver the notice to the SRS parliamentary group, because we only have four MPs and a parliamentary group will determine who will be representative of the SRS in that delegation, not anyone else. Unfortunately, that remark was not heard. This looks to me like an attempt to usurp and abuse the presidency's right. We won't let that happen. Our MP will not go to this delegation unless we are allowed to propose a candidate. I'm just expressing my satisfaction and happiness that Mr. Momir Markovic is not a priest, otherwise something could have happened to him... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32267	It's been two minutes. Mr. Todorovic, there are delegations formed by the president of parliament, those delegations formed by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Therefore, whether you will accept participation when the delegations are doing so, and those who need to form delegations, I personally appreciated your suggestion to consult you, but sometimes it slows down the procedure very much, to wait for you to agree. It's the board and whoever's on the board can propose it to the president. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure refers to a breach of procedure from the beginning of the session, and you are obliged to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure immediately after it has been done. I understand you need to be informed of all this. We've come to understand. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you're not satisfied, do you want us to get to the bottom of this? (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I want the Assembly to declare it. I want another word on the Rules of Procedure. You want another word on the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32268	Article 104. Madam Chairman, you have truly violated the dignity of the Assembly. You're saying it takes because it's waiting long to get us to decide... It's our right. In case you asked for an answer, and you did not, in case the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs asked the parliamentary group, so that we did not deliver the answer, I accept that he would have the right, but here it is explicitly the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that he should address the parliamentary group, because we have four MPs there. He didn't do it, and now this looks like an abuse of the board president. Let me ask you a simpler question - should such a right then be taken for themselves and the other presidents of the Committee, that they simply determine delegations, and then, as our people would say, we will have a daughter. As you do, it will also work as chairman of a committee whose members are all members of the SRS, so we will have delegations as decided by the chairman of the board, but you cannot allow the DS or its representatives to work in one way, or representatives of the Committee, and otherwise to work from other parties. I know with confidence for this delegation that one parliamentary group has not been consulted, and therefore there is not one parliamentary group or one party in this delegation, because the chairman of this committee has done so on his own, without consulting. I draw your attention that as president of the Assembly, you must make sure that the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32269	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you also want to take on this clear assembly? Yeah. In the day of the vote, we will declare ourselves. Of course, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure here, as far as I'm concerned. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32270	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, ministers, on Friday we spoke of these amendments and I must point out that the amendments to Articles 39 and 40 are complementary and should be seen in general. When we said that through sport, it was the easiest way to promote a new state, a new nation, such as an artificial creation that will be created in Vojvodina, then we had sex with Minister Chiplic, who did not give us an answer as to whether Article 39 in point 3. gives the AP Vojvodina the possibility to create representations. But his explanation was -- our mother's, we're not going to create representations. In fact, you need to know that sport is Serbia's biggest brand, and that athletes are heroes of this nation. In that sense, after that discussion, I had dozens of calls from the Vojvodina athletes who are confused about whether they are waiting for the fate of Montenegrin athletes, who had to wonder whether they would play for Serbia's team or for Montenegro's team. You give these members 39th and 40th the opportunity to entangle parallel power. It exists in Vojvodina right now. We also have a sports alliance, we have a football alliance and other alliances. But you give these powers to the authorities like the Republic Sports Union, as the Republic Football Union has, and in that sense I ask you to accept this amendment, because we were about to correct this irregularity, to make it impossible for the AP Vojvodina to create a new team somewhere in the future. In that sense, I ask Mrs. Kolundji, did the legislator of this law want to promote a new state, a new team that will be called the AP Vojvodina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32271	Thank you. The title above article 41 and article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Svetlana Stojanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32272	Article 41 regulates the competences entrusted by the Republic to the AP Vojvodina in the field of culture. These are the powers already passed by the 2002 Law to the Vojvodina. The DSS has tabled an amendment suggesting that Vojvodina not determines but proposes the concept of the cultural development of the Republic of Serbia for the territory of Vojvodina. Writers of the law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina have not asked themselves a fundamental question of cultural policy when it comes to decentralisation, which the DSS sincerely advocates. The question is: "What competence is in the general and public interest well transferred to lower levels of government, including the province, which are, on the contrary, burdens for them which they cannot bear"? What do the leaders of the Dukean culture think of the cultural policy established by the authorities of the AP Vojvodina? The head of the Serbian National Theatre in Novi Sad, a national culture institution in Vojvodina territory, has recently resigned. Steria's theatre director, Serbia's most respected theatre festival, also resigned. It will not be that resignations are passed on to such prestigious places when conditions for work, even if only tolerable, do not have to be great, the people of Vojvodina, and no one has asked what powers they want and can take on themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32273	The 41st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the subheading above Articles 42 and 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mrs Svetlana Stojanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32274	Article 42 refers to the protection of cultural goods, and it is best to show how important it is to have a single cultural policy in the unique and indivisible territory of the Republic of Serbia. We have passed the experience of unsuccessful decentralisation in the area of the protection of cultural monuments. We had regional protection institutions covering several municipalities, none of which felt specifically called to protect cultural monuments in their territory when money from Belgrade did not arrive for those purposes. We do not dispute the Vojvodina's right to establish and fund the right to protect cultural goods. They're never too many. The amendment we have submitted suggests that jurisdiction should not be determined when it comes to the protection of cultural goods, but rather that the letters of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments are strictly adhered to. The DSS does not slow the autonomy of the Vojvodina. Autonomy is a constitutional category. We are fighting exclusively against Vojvodina getting prerogatives of statehood at the expense of Serbian citizens living in Vojvodina. In the law establishing jurisdiction, Vojvodina is seen as a rounded continent, responsible for its own, comprehensive, and cultural development, and neither is it responsible in practice, nor can it be under the Constitution. The RS budget for 2010 will soon be in front of us. Instead of finding a division in the Department – Culture – Specialized Services, for which we have never established what it means and what projects are spent on...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32275	It's been two minutes. Thank you. The subtitle above Articles 43 and 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica submitted to the 43rd amendment. Mrs. Donka Banovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32276	Our amendment practically consists of proposing to delete St. 2 and 3 and otherwise this member bears the title – Cinematography and Film Art. We think attitude 2 and 3 are very incomprehensible. But speaking of film art and films, I think you should all be aware that Serbian citizens are very concerned and scared as they watch this film sent to us in the Assembly and among the citizens by Boris Tadic. Citizens are worried because they know this movie won't end happily ever after. So there's no happy ending. The film has a sad ending, and in the past 20 years, Serbian citizens have seen films like this and know how they end. These laws, statutes and the law will have the only result as a para-state formation that threatens Serbia's constitutional order.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32277	The subtitle above the 44th and the 44th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32278	Article 44 refers to loans, funds and foundations. Under the bill, the AP Vojvodina approves the establishment and running of a register of officials, foundations and funds established on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The DSS has submitted an amendment suggesting that "on the territory of the AP Vojvodina" be replaced by the words "whose is the user of the AP Vojvodina". We believe it is legally unacceptable for the register to be conducted exclusively according to the territorial criteria and that the authorities of the AP Vojvodina should keep the register of employees and the foundation of which they are the beneficiary. The territorial unity of the RS must not be violated. It is difficult to talk about the law on the transfer of jurisdiction when we do not have the law in front of us at the same time and how the delegated powers will be financed. In the process of separating Vojvodina from the rest of Serbia's more lagging behind and Europe's less conscious Serbia has gone backwards. First, the statute was written, then, according to the statute, the law on the transfer of jurisdiction, and the law on the financing of entrusted competences was neither offered to the Assembly nor considered. The order had to be the other way around, but it's not about the laws, it's about the right steps towards decommissioning Serbia's state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32279	The subtitle above the 45th and the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica submitted to the 45th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the subtitle above the article 46th and Article 46th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 47 and Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Paya Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32280	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are coming up with an act concerning the regulation of the health system. First of all, what I have to say is my dissatisfaction because we don't have the opportunity to discuss qualifiedly with the legislator of this law. You only have one Mr. Minister who is absolutely not competent in the field of health and then we are brought into an unpleasant position that we cannot face our opinions. What's our amendment? Members of the SRS believe that this member should be deleted in full, together with a subtitle and title. Now I should explain why we consider it. You see, the whole sequence in this point member is listed, they're 16. I couldn't talk about each and every one of them and talk about their sovereignty. If you see only the first point, where it is said – The social health care at the level of the province of Vojvodina, which covers the security measures and the implementation of health care against the interests of the citizens of AP Vojvodina, is an over-needed and unnecessary category which is already covered by far more extensive republican law. It repeats something the law has already fully regulated. What is the basic problem and what needs to be drawn to attention is the problem with members who will now follow and I will speak within these amendments to introduce parallel institutions with institutions that know the Republic law and the Republic level. This is inadmissible and illegal, because the health system must be unique and must be fair. So it must be ensured for citizens to meet their expectations and that the principle of justice is fully fulfilled, and it will not be, and I will prove it in future discussions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32281	A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32282	In the last 13 months, as he traveled the draft statutes to Belgrade and during the definition of the Law on the Powers of the AP Vojvodina, we have had many times to hear the words – regionalisation, even regional development, decentralisation, etc. When it comes to regionalisation, the question arises – why is only one region defined and will it help even regional development or will it actually deepen regional differences? When it comes to decentralisation, I think it is good to remind that one of the basic European values is precisely the principle of subsidiarity, which means lowering jurisdiction to the lowest possible competent level. What's a citizen who lives in Shida, Somboro or the White Church if the money goes to Novi Sad instead of Belgrade? To the extent that this kind of decentralisation in practice works, it is best seen in the case of a Pančevec, which, if necessary, has to come to health care, radiotherapy, or radiation therapy, must, for example, go. In Sremska Kamenica or, if he needs hip treatment, he has to go to Vrbas. The question arises, when you see how far Panchevo is from Belgrade, about 15 km away, why is that and how in practice this kind of decentralisation corresponds to one Pančevac? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32283	Member of the 47th Amendment was submitted by MP Djura Muchenski. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Lodi Gabor has submitted to Article 47 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dragomir Cimeša submitted to Article 47 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 47th Amendment was submitted by MP Nandor Maraci. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 47th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Radoslav Mojsilovic and Milutin Jelic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title above Articles 48 and 49 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted: Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Radoslav Mojsilović, Milutin Jelic and Zlata Djeric, a group of 19 MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica and MP Paja Momcilov, who wants a word. Here you go. I'm sorry, Milan Dimitrijevic called earlier. Mr. Dimitrijevic. There's a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32284	So, in the previous days, we've been listening to the constitutional defender and defender of this bill on the transfer of jurisdiction, the appeal to the law. So, Mrs. Kolundjia, when you refer to the law on the transfer of the types of responsibilities related to this law, I ask – what is the law that you are referring to it. What is the capital law in the field of health? Is that the health care law? If that is the law, did you read it? Where does the law say that health advice can be established on AP territory? Find me that member. As far as I know, the members who regulate this matter are members of 151, 152 to 156, 150 and regulate the establishment of professional bodies at the level of the Republic. That doesn't say anything in the Health Protection Act. So, you want some responsibilities that aren't prescribed by law. What do you want it for? This is what you want only for money, when you look at the end of your member, who says the following – the funds for the work of the Vojvodina Health Council are held in the budget of the AP Vojvodina. (Milan Dimitrijevic, from the scene: That's where the story begins.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32285	It's been two minutes. Mr. Paja Momchilov has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32286	As I said, that you have a whole series of unnecessary things here - let's say that the necessary health care programmes are being adopted for certain categories of population, that is, the type of disease, so I would be very curious to see what special diseases are at the province level that are not typical of all Serbia? You here in this article have to propose the establishment of a health council, and that is not foreseen by the Republic law. The Republic law has made it clear – that the Institute for Public Health of Vojvodina should be established, that the Institute should be established for transfusions. However, this institution is now being introduced to a large door. We saw clearly yesterday that this was the DS project. You had yesterday, that the Ministers of Vojvodina defended this, that he defended the president of the parliamentary group, which was also originating in Vojvodina, individual members. It is quite clear that this is the hookup of a party, which needs to bring chaos to Serbian health at a small door. As that chaos looks, I'll try to prove it clear enough. Of course, Mr. Martinovic and the other SRS MPs at the theoretical level made it clear what this bill is hiding. I'm not getting into that. That's quite enough. The principle of evolution, the principle of justice and the principle of self-government, is that it is known again what it is and how it can be regulated locally. However, this law, by introducing parallel institutions and parallel competences, practically only breaks our system. It should be said, if you look at how it is in the world, that is, I would remind you only of the last recommendation of the EU, the last directive that says, "Patients must have the same rights in all EU member states, which they have in their country." Do the citizens of Serbia have these rights today, when you look at Vojvodina and Serbia, and I will tell you in the next presentation?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32287	The title above Articles 49 and 49 of the same text was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Radoslav Mojsilović and Milutin Jelic, a group of 19 MPs of the DS Group – Vojislav Kostunica and National MP Paja Momcilov. There's a word from MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32288	So, I'll continue the story, where you just interrupted me for lack of time. Here you have the establishment of an ethical committee. You already have that in the Health Protection Act. What do you set him up and what's this committee gonna do? He won't do anything. You have it at the level of the Serbian Doctor's Society, you have it at the level of the chambers. You have a Chamber branch in Vojvodina, has a part of the Serbian Doctor's Society in Vojvodina, you have ethical committees. You, therefore, are introducing new members and this health council will number nine members, it will count seven members – the essence is that they are financed from the APV budget. So, you're directly dragging your hand into the pocket of the citizens of Vojvodina, and you're fighting for their rights. What do you think this administration is doing with these things? Now we're going back to that story, which is often mentioned here by Mr. Chank – where are our money? Here's where your money is, there's -16 members to be set aside by the Vojvodina Assembly, which will be financed from the APV budget. Completely unnecessary, because you have the Health Security Act and health insurance, chambers and even professional bodies – everything fits, so, in the story that you want the elements of statehood, that is, to be in the perspective of a new state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32289	He has Mrs. Hope Kolundji's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32290	Ethics committees exist in basic health institutions, so no one has declared it a coup.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32291	The title above the 50th and the 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Momchilov – yes? You didn't sign up, sir. (Paja Momchilov, from the place: I would like to talk further about Article 49.) You didn't sign up, please one more time, or just one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32292	Can I do it now? Now, let me respond to this brief replica and the intrusion. Ethical principles are universal and generally stem from human rights. They are already covered by the Republic law and there are no Vojvodina ethical principles. Something to repeat, which has already been regulated by the legislation that is above, is completely unnecessary. I'm not saying it can't stand, but it's funny – there are no Vojvodina ethical principles, as there are no ethical principles in certain institutions. Why are there ethical committees? They exist to discuss on a concrete, on-site basis the violations of these principles. That's why this category was introduced. So, speaking of this, one might now wonder – why is he now insisting on one of these regulations? I'm not sure. Many have defended themselves that it was not separatism. Let's just say it's not separatism. What is it? A naked desire to create parallel institutions of government, to be in its pasture a boss, aga, and not to be, is it so, at a republican level, perhaps some candidate for a possible government? So, citizens absolutely have no use for it, as Pančevac today cannot go to Belgrade to radiate, but must travel to Novi Sad – because that is what the Omnibus law has passed. One who cannot go from Serbia to radiate, also to Novi Sad, or go God forbid to treat him when he needs something. This law will cement it and lead to an even worse situation. That's what your essence is. Someone will say it again – you haven't answered why people want it? Because of corruption, or growing corruption, it can typically be analysed in the Vojvodina case and in the duchy health institutions. I'm not saying that it doesn't exist in Serbia either, but it's eclative examples and I'm going to point them out, and they're from Vojvodina right now and they're generating this wish -- to avoid any higher control, not to work at national level, but to work in our village. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32293	Does anyone else want to discuss the particulars of the amendment referring to the title above Articles 49 and 49? No, I don't. ) On the subtitle above the 50th and the 50th Amendment, the People's MP, Paya Momchilov, submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32294	I've just said in principle that all these attitudes that are listed here are just trying to create a bewitched environment where you can do whatever you want, because you're already doing what you want today. Example number one, Kamenica, was written, in this assembly I asked a parliamentary question - what about 290,000 euros robbed in the purchase of a sterilizer, where the investigation has already started and the judge has already started calling witnesses and then has been stopped abruptly? Answer me, autonomists, where is 290,000 citizens of Vojvodina, or say if that's not true or not? The heavy robbery that's hiding, from the highest level and cover-ups, it's Vojvodina today, it's that autonomy. That's what you're trying to do. There are worse things, I'll talk about worse. So not to mention, here's the subject of a criminal, case number 288 from 2008. What happened? People proved the robbery of 290,000, suspended, taken to Valjevo, given to prosecutors in Valjevo who after a month stop the process, says - there is no need for further work. Answer that, what about 290,000 robbed, proven by the police, a pair of Vojvodina citizens? That's how you take care of your citizens. That's how you stand for that better life. If you take a look at what the World Health Organization is, I'll just have a few headlines, "Together for help," "Save future". These are all publications of the World Health Organizations annually that talk about integration that we must be unique, that the system must be unique. You're developing a system, you're an anti-European and anti-progressive current in the world when it comes to health care. I only limit myself to health care. I'm not talking about other areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32295	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the subheading above Articles 51 and 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32296	County Health Insurance Office, watch out for specifics here. This is where it's now being built, you see it says -- it's in the second degree on health insurance rights. What does that mean for the people of Vojvodina? This means, if they want to complain, if they are not satisfied with the solutions achieved in achieving their rights in the province, there is no further, there is no more state of Serbia, there is no more instance where you can complain. Then you say this is not something that leads to independence. Economic independence and everything else. Speaking of this institution and these problems, you today have a terrible problem in the province, again Kamenica. The Institute of Oncology, the Health Committee has received three performances from citizens, performances from people employed by the Institute and performances from the Health Club, where this case is required to be investigated. What's going on? We have an epidemic of cancer in our country, 30,000 new cases. The Vojvodina has 8,000 on the annual level. It would take 6,000 in Vojvodina to irradiate, and it would radiate 3,000. What did you bring in? You've been introduced through the legal licenses for overtime introducing foreign patients. Our patients can't irradiate, and every year between 200 and 500 of them are left without your therapy because someone in Vojvodina, in Kamenica, makes money on the torture and disease of the people. Our citizens have no fundamental right to be treated for cancer because they treat patients from other republics. I'm not saying they shouldn't be treated, but not in this way, and that's not why someone gets 5,000 euros in salary in that institution. This is your autonomy for which I brand you and condemn you. That's what you should know.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32297	The word has a letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32298	Article 51, whose erasure is required, states in the 1st position that the Regional Institute for Health Insurance, in the following text, "Ukraine Institute", as an organisational unit of the Republic Institute. So it just means what it's about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32299	15 seconds of MEP time used. A group of 19 MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia group submitted to the 51st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32300	So, we've suggested that two attitudes be deleted here. Why is that? Because if you look at some allegations or articles in the daily press, then you will find out what is going on in the branches of the Republic Health Insurance Institute throughout Vojvodina. Madam Registrar, look at this title, do you see what's going on in the health insurance branches all over Vojvodina? So, when a medical second-degree committee is saved, then private security and special forces are hired. This means that citizens of Panchev, who are ten-to-fivekm away from the city, are prevented from being treated by specialists and private security in the city of Belgrade, but must travel an additional 100-150km to get to Novi Sad. That's the story of your transfer of jurisdiction and there's your money. How does it happen that, for example, half the means of living in a branch of the Republic Health Insurance Institute in Panchev, and everywhere in Serbia, it remains at the same level? It's a simple fact that you can't explain, it doesn't say anywhere, it doesn't respect patients' rights anywhere. Just now, Mr. Momchilo cited the example of Sremska Kamenica, the Institute of Oncology. You have had the opportunity to read the report of the Republic Health Inspector, where patients' rights, the citizens of Vojvodina, are being drastically violated, where they are being denied their basic right, their basic form of health care. What did the province government do? Has there been a representative council of the Duke?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32301	Two minutes, thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 52nd amendment was submitted by a group of 19 MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica and MP Paja Momcilov. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32302	We don't want to talk about Kamenica anymore, you keep your mouth shut and the representatives of the authorities and the Vojvodians, they're satisfied, they're fine, which every year 500 to 600 people die without experiencing health therapy. What I'm saying is, I say responsibly, you can find everything in printed media. To end this discussion, this will also be a topic on the Health Committee, and there will be parliamentary issues safe from this sphere. Article 52, of course, needs to be deleted. Why? Because already one member of the Republic Health Protection Act has regulated the establishment of this Institute for Public Health and it is essential to discuss it further. I just want to say two or three more things just to distract. It's clear what I think is the motive of the good work, at least when it comes to health policy for the people of Vojvodina, to cover up what's going on, to make a feud where everything and everything will be done without social control, and you see here there were a lot of those who quoted the Montenegrin, we also talked about the Academy of Science. Of course, Jovan Sterija Popovic founded, you know, in 1841 with Atanasija Nikolic the Association of Serbian Celebrity did not establish a Vojvodina society of ceremony. When you talk about Crnjanski, why don't you read at least "Serby", "Lament of Belgrade", and see how that's about how things are. Or take Antiquity, and read him, and take the Duke, and see how things stand, and what they are about. It's exhausted for Serbs the need to have autonomy in the way they want to. What is quite clear and what needs to be said, this autonomy is in the service of globalisation and breaking the state of Serbia and nothing more, but it is quite certain and if you reach that goal, there will be opposition, there will be contradictions among regional participants, and there will also be major problems. Therefore, you say only this - citizens of Serbia, you are being treated in the institutions of Vojvodina. Citizens of Vojvodina, you will come to Belgrade to be treated. This allows you to enter the statutes. This allows you this law, and the citizens will be very grateful for it, but you can't say it and this law and this statute don't pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32303	30 seconds of MP time was used. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32304	Mrs. Comic, representatives of the government in absentia, ladies and gentlemen, after an irrefutable argument made by counterpart Milan Dimitrijevic, we do not know what a unique health system in Serbia we can talk about. Namely, this part of which we are talking about at this point provides for the establishment of a regional health insurance office, by the fact that the proposings here have played a little bit, when they've given some authority to this province's office, so that you're predicting and introducing some sub-accounts, through which the Republic Health Insurance Office will pay off the funds, and then the Director of the District Office will appoint branch directors on AP territory. Then the public health office of the AP Vojvodina will take over all mobile and immovable property and employees of the office in the territory of the southern Bačka County. For all things, the DSS proposes that Article 52 of this Law be deleted and that in this way, indeed, the Regional Health Insurance Office be given those powers which belong to it under the Constitution and the law and nothing more than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32305	The word has an MP, Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32306	I don't think the amendment should be accepted. He seeks to delete Article 52 relating to the Institute of Public Health, which will take over from the start of work the use of movable and immovable property, the right and obligation of the Institute for Public Health, established for the territory of the southern Bačka County. This member is important, not only determines, let me say, one segment of the competence of the AP in this sector, he is also important because of attitude 2, that is, this position 2 deny the claims of individual parliamentary groups that there will be any duplication of administration, employees, etc. In its opinion, it is clear that the Institute of Public Health has been established for the territory of the AP Vojvodina, taking over and employees of the Public Health Office established for the territory of the South Bačka District.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32307	The time used by the parliamentary group is 55 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the subtitle above the members of the 53rd and member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government's representative is gone, respected citizens, the SRS wants to develop and to live better in all of Serbia without exception. We do not want to slow down the development of those who have already gone to other parts of Serbia, but we want to show solidarity, and where it is difficult for the state of Serbia to help those citizens of its Serbia, regardless of national, religious or any other belonging. Respected Serbian citizens, in this law Serbia is missing, it is not even minimal. There are many stories that the citizens of Vojvodina will live better. I am talking about an amendment to Article 53 which the SRS has submitted to this law, which says that the AP Vojvodina regulates, in accordance with material possibilities, other social protection rights, greater scope of rights established by law and more favourable conditions for their implementation, as well as other forms of social protection, if it has previously provided funds in its budget. I've just read this position of article 53 that DS gentlemen can't say that I'm not strictly talking about the amendment, or that I'm not referring to a member of the law here. It's not the essence of it, respected citizens, first of all I'm thinking of you from Vojvodina, this is one catch, so you can say, well, that law might even be drinking water, maybe it's bringing us something good. No, he's not bringing anything good. The SRS has further submitted several amendments to the series, which I will explain on behalf of the SRS, and we will talk about other aspects of the execution of this law and this law not only for the citizens of Vojvodina, but above all for the citizens of Vojvodina, but for all citizens of Serbia. White Schengen, we are for it, but this is the price of white Schengen, this is the law. It took a year for all the political parties that make up the government at this point to accept for various reasons, such as the SPS, because today is its president, and on behalf of the Justice Ministry, at a meeting where a decision on the visa-free regime will be made. What do the citizens have out of it? It is the same for you as if the government would decide that Serbian citizens have the right to buy a Mercedes car, and they do not have the funds, some for breakfast or some for a bike.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32309	Used from the time of Parliament's 35 seconds. The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32310	Point 1. of Article 1 is extremely important because it explicitly speaks about the fact that the AP Vojvodina, if it provides funds in its budget, can realise and exercise greater rights in the field of social protection. This is important not only for the AP Vojvodina, this is important for all local self-government. So, the municipalities and the cities. It is desirable for municipalities and cities to provide in their budgets financial amounts and material resources for a wider body of rights from regional protection, such as in the city of Belgrade, Jagodina, Novi Sad, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32311	The time used by the parliamentary group is 45 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 19 MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia's Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica submitted to the 53rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) People's MP Aleksandar Pejcic and Donka Banovic were also reported. Only one of you can get a word. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32312	The title above article 53 is "Social Protection", and this is one of many members who directly discriminates against Serbian citizens. It has territorial discrimination and, of course, deeper, but here it is given the right for the authorities of the AP Vojvodina to regulate other rights in the field of social protection. The Constitution says, before the Constitution and the law, everyone is equal. Social protection also stands - the rights of employees and their families to social security and insurance are regulated by law, governed by the republic's law. AP Vojvodina authorities cannot edit this area, they can implement decisions, they can carry out certain tasks that have been transferred or jurisdiction, but cannot possibly regulate the AP area governed by the republican law. Of course, in this point of view, point 1 states – it regulates, in accordance with material possibilities, other rights in the field of social protection, greater scope of rights than the rights laid down by law. The promoter here says it will be a greater amount of rights, but what is our guarantee, or even a guarantee of citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, that it will not be less of a right. This is a colourful lie, to tell the citizens of Vojvodina, you who favor this statute with your heart, and this law to say, you know, when we settle this, this autonomy, we create a para-state formation, we will allocate out of our budget more resources, so that you will have a better social rights than citizens living in other areas of Serbia. A member who directly promotes discrimination between Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32313	Two minutes. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32314	Honored Chairman, Article 183. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says the AP, in accordance with the law, regulate issues of the province's importance. I stress, they're sorting out issues of regional importance, and then in the area of social protection. The constitution predicted that the AP would settle issues in the area of social protection and if we are afraid that certain local environments or certain parts of Serbia would try to provide them with a responsible attitude towards their citizens more than the minimum that the state-level law predicted, then I think we have a serious problem. Then we don't understand what the interest of the citizens is. The interest of citizens is that all local self-government, AP, regions, future regions and future autonomy provide their citizens with more than what the law predicted as a minimum.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32315	A minute of time has been used since the time of the group's MPs. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32316	Dear citizens of Serbia, it is a treat for me to compromise with the MPs of the DS, and I see them slowly fishing on these amendments submitted by the SRS. What's the treat of getting along with DS MPs? It is precisely because the main initiator of such a law is Boris Tadic and the DS MPs who should continue to implement this. Nenad Canak is one of the project's subcontractors and he does not have the strength that could harm so many Serbian citizens at this point. I am surprised by the indifference of a number of MPs, I know what we are talking about beyond the regular session, and believe me, the largest number of MPs from the DS also has major objections and criticism to this and this law. You were trying to say that there is no need to challenge the greater possibility of separation for social protection. Who's against it? Of course you shouldn't, but you should give it to the maximum. The Serbian Radical Party, in its form of arrangement, as we imagine Serbia should look, in a good and very professional manner spoke MP Aleksandar Martinovic... Are we for decentralisation? Of course. In what form? In the next -- Belgrade, on behalf of the Serbian state, Ljubovija, as a local community, Apatin, Alibunar and all other municipalities directly. In this way, we would preserve the integrity of our Serbia and in some ways allow the citizens of Serbia to live roughly equally. What do we have? You're building some mid-level government, and in small areas you're removing courts, you're going to abolish health homes, you're going to discourage and completely disenfranchise those citizens, and where are they going to work? One day, apart from perhaps forced mail departments, some school, no other institution in many small towns of Serbia will be. There, respected citizens of Serbia, what the DS is preparing for you and what life you can expect in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32317	Used from the time of the parliamentary group is 15 seconds. The word is a folk's letter to Hope Kolundzija, and after it is the People's Messenger, Nikolic Tomislav.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32318	Dear Madam President, the purpose of the amendment debate is that amendment applicants are trying to convince other MPs to vote in favour of their amendments. They are trying to convince, among other things, the ZES parliamentary group why their amendments, which they propose to delete the entire law, are good and why they should be accepted. The question – whether someone is fishing on the right that stands in his Rules of Procedure or someone is fishing on an obligation to answer what someone here is saying is really something that is not the level of this debate. You are trying to, explaining your amendments, convince the MPs why they should vote for them. On behalf of the ZES parliamentary group, I am making arguments that make these amendments unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32319	One minute and five seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. The group president's time is three minutes and 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32320	It would be very nice if that were true, Mrs. Kolundjia, but neither do we tolerate the amendments to convince you, since it is impossible to do so with the ruling majority's MPs. We are submitting amendments to allow citizens of Serbia to hear what we, completely blocked in the media, unlike you, are thinking about and so that we can arrange an area. You're not defending those amendments today, that proposal of yours, because you're convinced it's true, but you got that warrant. Do not defend him from your heart at all, do not defend him from your heart, defend him, I would even say so that many MPs would vote in favour of our amendments, as you defend it well. You said that richer to your citizens, whether it's in the region, local self-government, the AP, they want to give more and they should give more. That is the desire of the rich. Nature has given you, in the territory of the AP Vojvodina there will be greater revenues and it is the natural desire of the leadership of the AP Vojvodina to provide its citizens with more than other citizens have. But this republic is called Serbia and there is someone over the AP Vojvodina, called the Government of the Republic of Serbia. He's worried that the rich don't get richer and the poor don't go to waste. We are free of Serbia if in Bosilegrad people go to us naked and barefoot, and some municipality in the territory of the AP Vojvodina or the entire AP Vojvodina provides its citizens, as their own country, with a higher standard, including in this area that is being attacked by our amendments. You've forgotten the principle of solidarity. You are not interested in it, or interested in it, and you are not interested in autonomists and separatists from Vojvodina. Today they hold your soul with several votes here in the National Assembly, for you many, and for Serbia little votes, without any meaning, without any power. That's why you're sacrificing part of Serbia's territory today. We will prove in the remaining few amendments that you are creating a state here that you are fictitiously under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and under an area governed by law. Oh, my God. We are passing today a law that you will claim is governed by today's law, and today, when we pass it, you refer us to some other laws or to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As far as we're concerned, your explanations are not necessary at all. We don't need your reasons for refusing the amendment. The government didn't answer us why they refused the amendments. She said – she believes that the more celery and meaningful solutions are in the proposal submitted by the Government. For us, the proposal for a statute is what Mr. Canak submitted in October last year and it will be achieved in the territory of Vojvodina, however you pass this law on determining jurisdiction or whatever statute you vote. The Duke is taking a separatist path, a very selfish path. The historical irresponsibility of a few of the people in Vojvodina will lead to major problems. Your attempt to justify the passing of the law to Serbian citizens cannot be successful at all. You separate the richest part of the country with the best opportunities for development. You're making him completely special. The only thing in common will be anthem, a border, an army. I don't know if I skipped anything. Don't be offended. Maybe there's something in common that you left behind. Everything else will be duchess. You already call it autonomy, sometimes a region. When EU money is needed, it will be a region, as regions have the right...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32321	National MP, the time at your disposal as president of the parliamentary group has been used. Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32322	The claim that we do not read your amendments carefully and reject them because they come from the opposition does not stand, because if you look at how many amendments have been accepted by opposition representatives, then you will realize that it is not true. Of course we can't accept amendments that change the essence of what the law provides or if the amendments ask for members of the law to be deleted, so as to delete the entire law. If someone thinks that the development of one part of the country and the fact that because of the greater degree of development of that part of the country doesn't benefit the whole country, then he doesn't understand how the whole system works, then he doesn't understand that every part that develops more and more individually is actually a driving engine for the development of the whole society. We believe that deeply. If someone says we're misreading the Constitution here, we're not interpreting the Constitution, we're applying it here, but I'm not surprised at the man who said as a presidential candidate that he's going to reevaluate the decisions that murderers are convicted of, so if he makes sure they're innocent, he'll release them. Then I believe it's hard to understand what the whole system should look like when it's harmonized with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32323	One minute and 40 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. He gets a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32324	Mrs. Kolundjia, I didn't expect you to act rudely, I really didn't expect you to. This is a sign of the insolence of power. First, you insult me when you say you've accepted the amendment's opposition. You've accepted the LDP amendments, it's not the opposition, it's the government, it's part of you, one part that's amputated and very quickly sewn back on your body. On the other hand, if you're already interpreting the Constitution, you should know that the President of the Republic has the right to give his or her abjects and pardons and that he is obliged to examine every subject of every citizen who addresses him with such a request. I didn't say - l'll release the killers, I didn't say they were murderers, you've almost just reached a verdict in that case. I just said - of course it's my duty to examine every subject that arrives and to find out there are grounds, then it's my unimpeached right, as your current President of the Republic, Bishop Boris, the unimpeached right of the President of the Republic to grant a pardon or to give an abject. What am I explaining to you? Because you've changed your attitude towards the opposition, you've been acting kind of shaken up, you've been shivering from the opposition, and today you're shaking, something's not going so well. It seems to me, in Krusevec you lost all of the polling stations for the councils of local communities. It seems to me, in Leposavic, you will not be able to form power, although you spent half of Serbia's budget on the Leposavic campaign and on Vozdovac. It seems to me, Mrs. Kolundjia, that you have passed those lowest passions only with a beautiful, fine, quiet, peaceful voice, unlike some of us who sometimes shout, but your ideas are the same. You act exactly like those who defile the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia here. You really have no basis for accusing me of anything. I had no function in which I could insult you, as a citizen of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32325	People's MP, please state which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32326	Did I tell you I'm answering the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32327	No, MP, I told you you're getting word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32328	I'm sorry, I don't know what you told me. You're a very bad communicator. I've been reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32329	People's MP, if you were to follow the session closely, then you would have heard clearly that you had the right to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Since you did not want to explain, nor to indicate what injury the member is, I consider it to be one of the abuses of the right to a word based on Article 100. I warn you not to do it anymore. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32330	I'm reporting under Article 101 - replica law. I think that all citizens remember well what anyone said in the campaigns and understand how well someone understood their potential powers, and in that sense I don't have to explain anything anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32331	Since the time of the parliamentary group, 20 seconds have been used. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about hurting the MPs and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32332	Who asked for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32333	National MP, you've been registered in the electronic system, which you can check with the Deputy Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32334	I'm registered in many systems.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32335	National MP, you've been registered to look for a word, which you can check with the deputy secretary, with fellow vice presidents and vice presidents. I'm obliged to give my word then. Since, at the disposal of time, neither you, as president of the Progressive Group, nor the parliamentary group, has time available, unless you are the applicant of the amendment, then I am obliged to give you my word, if you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to? No, I don't. I thank you. Anyone else want a word by amendment to article 54? No, I don't. ) A group of 19 MPs of the DSS group submitted to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the subtitle above the 55th and the 55th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32336	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know perfectly well that fish are being fished, and I figuratively said that some MPs are being caught. But, Mrs. Kolundjia, when will you stop running double politics? This is about exposing two policies. The SRS, what it tells its voters, what it says when it goes through Serbia, also says in this respected home. You had, just before the amendments to those that I am explaining on behalf of the SRS, several MPs from the DS who also submitted amendments to this law and did not want to say a word about them. They're doing it consciously, I don't get into their motives, so they can say -- well, we've submitted the amendments, but now there's nothing. It is a great price for this law, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This law will allow setting up, not everyone, but a large number of judges and prosecutors, through this law, who do not deserve and are not worthy of these functions. How do you think the appointment of judges and prosecutors will take place through this law? Because some MPs, who also see major problems and failures in this law, will vote in favour of this law, and will allow them to appoint judges and prosecutors, in the area where she is in charge or the High Council of the judiciary or the State's Major Prosecutors, those who obey this regime. The SRS is determined to oppose this and this law, and it is true that SRS MPs have submitted amendments to each of the 91 members of this law, which we propose to delete these provisions and the law in general, because this different formulation of our amendments could not be corrected at all. Are we to live better in certain parts of Serbia, which are more developed? Yeah, right. Respected Serbian citizens, from the position of government, and eventually, the SRS will allow the developed to develop faster, but will never allow them to separate from Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32337	From the time of the parliamentary group, 15 seconds have been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 19 MPs of the DSS group submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the subtitle above the 56th and the 56th Amendment, MP Sreto Peric submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32338	Article 56 of this Bill refers to social care for children. It is hypocritical to talk about the social care of children related to the AP Vojvodina, when we are not taking care of children in either part of Serbia or Serbia at all. There are numerous examples in Serbia that point to the irresponsible attitude of the Serbian state towards children and family in general. What kind of concern are we talking about when we know that 0.9 children are married to one couple? Where's the child care? Where is the possibility, where is the need to create families, to expand? Do you know how many 45-year-old boys in Serbia have never made marriages, with very little chance of ever coming into such a position? You don't care, you don't care, you don't want to help the citizens of Serbia. Your goal is, of course, not everything, very few autonomists are here, but you're trying in one way to seduce most of the citizens, to present to them that there is your great concern for decentralisation, for a better life, and basically, there's nothing. Lately, to a large extent, it helps you and your coalition partner in information, you are turning the topic from very important issues at this point in time for the state of Serbia and you are transferring it to some benign things, some things that, believe me, almost no one, absolutely no one in Serbia is interested in. Go for a walk in Serbia, and you'll see what your citizens tell you about everything you're trying to do. You're going a little perfidious here. I'll explain how and in what way, regarding the next amendment to the next article.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32339	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 56th Amendment was submitted by a group of 19 MPs of the DSS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32340	Article 57. The bill reads: "Ap Vojvodina through its authorities in the field of pre-school education, according to the law, is carrying out expert supervision of the achievement of social work in children's institutions in the territory of the AP Vojvodina". I have a question for you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Will the number of ministries in Serbia be reduced after the entry into force of this law and after the entry into force of the Vojvodina Statute? We know at this point that you have a majority and that we are powerless to prevent such a destructive law from being passed, but will the number of ministries be reduced? Will the number of ministry employees in Serbia be reduced when jurisdiction is realised under this law, many of them, who have been entrusted? I'm sure he won't. We had the agenda at a session of the National Assembly that was interrupted because of a law like this, and it was interrupted, so you have deadlines until you have to bring these two acts, relating to the identification of the maximum number of persons employed at the republican and local level. Did we speak in any single word about the number of employees at the AP Vojvodina level? Of course not. It's going to increase compared to this one. There are a number of politicians here who are hitchhiking this, looking for the most suitable time. It reminds me a little bit as in a certain time period of the 1960s, a certain number of KIM politicians who spoke patiently, patiently, to make Serbia even financially disabled and dead, all in favour of transferring funds to KIM. That's the best example here, that the MPs of the SRS don't say anything by heart is Article 43. The bill's proposal that what needs to be financed goes from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the impoverished places, such as the Shop, Love, the Small Zvornik, Krupanj and some others, and all the revenue collected there will remain at the place of creation. Who's gonna benefit from that? Not Serbian citizens, but policymakers, so-called. The political elite, because one of the MPs here, when the debate was on the principle of these proposals, spoke of a political elite in Serbia. I guess in Serbs and all other citizens living in Serbia, there is no greater political elite than the MPs of a political party who said this was adopted thanks to their amendments, a total of five amendments, which they submitted. You're not gonna get away with this. Serbian citizens have recognised your intentions, and it will certainly be punished in some future period. Now no one asks them when they vote on these acts, but they'll ask themselves in the next election, then you'll see what you've been doing in this term of office.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32341	One minute used by the MP's group. There are 55 seconds left. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the subheading above Articles 58 and 58 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32342	Article 58 speaks of special protection of mother and child. If one parallel is withdrawn between what has been done so far on this matter and what is proposed by this law, or this article, certain questions are raised and certain answers are imposed. Article 58. The bill prefers a better life for mothers, for children, for pregnant women, for maternity parents, for single parents. But which mothers will be better? Whose children will be better under this law? Whose parents will feel blessed by Article 58. Proposal for a law laying down the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina? It will be better for those children who have been well so far, those children who, thanks to their rich and powerful parents, are studying in London, Paris, New York, those children who will no longer sweat in the long lines in front of foreign embassies to get a visa to fly. It may be even better for some moms, who have the opportunity to buy a jeep as a birthday present, will also be good for some dads who can provide their sons with more than 400,000 euros in budget donations, donations to renovate certain loans. And to everyone else, and to the children, and to the mothers, and to single parents and students who wait in long lines to have mercy on their demands, it will be worse and worse. They were alive, and they saw it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32343	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the subtitle above the article 59 and the article 59th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32344	Article 59. The bill regulates pension insurance, so the first position of this member provides for the establishment of a provincial pension fund. When it comes to the fund, it immediately associates it with the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund. Will this newly established fund, as well as numerous other funds, manage to hide and cloud everything that has happened in this mentioned fund for Vojvodina's capital investment? Will this, and other funds across Vojvodina, manage to shed light or even more light on how, for example, some powerful former Dragon waiter managed to buy an apartment of 150 square meters in the centre of Novi Sad, and then buy another 70 and another 70, and all that at 100 meters from the headquarters of his powerful DS in Novi Sad? I expect that another senior official, former member of the reform party Ante Markovic, member of the Movement for Yugoslavia, communist Stevan Mirkovic, member of the Vojvodina Reformists, and former member of the Dragoljub Micunovic Democratic Centre and eventually senior DS official will go to this pension fund. When he comes to this pension fund, I guess the citizens of Serbia will be better off. The pensioners should hope they'll get better, but I don't think there's any of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32345	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 19 MPs of the DSS group submitted to Article 59 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the subtitle above the members of the 60th and the Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32346	Article 60 regulates fighting and disability protection, and this is all within what it says is a single system of the Republic of Serbia. Everything there in this article's proposal writes, but it does not say anything else, whether only those who have managed to cloud the water will provide protection to fighters and disabled persons, so they now hope that, according to that people's saying, "only those who have managed to cloud it out of the water come out of the water," or that those who consider themselves to be the creators of this bill, who call these same fighters a genocide people, and the state of Serbia a genocide state. Should they seek protection from these or will they have to ask NGOs, which others are paying for, and the state of Serbia and its government are calmly watching as they muddy everything that is Serbian, which is national, which is military? Is that the kind of protection of fighters and disabled wars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32347	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the subtitle above the 61st and the 61st amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32348	On this subject, Article 61 prescribes the protection of civil disabled wars. These jobs are done as confidential business. If accidentally the proposing's intentions were to be true to every city, every village, every village, every village and village in Serbia, not only in Vojvodina, feels the need for this kind of protection. There are so many civilian disabled wars or wars, better said, which this nation has led against all of your world's friends over the past 20 years. Will they have better protection and trust? For those who couldn't make an easy deal for 13 months long and heavy political trade? It lasted 13 months long and difficult to split the cake. It was scattered, and it was divided, and it was reassembled, and it was scattered, and it was divided, and all of a sudden it was 13 months. In part, classical political trade, with the help of various well - mastered techniques of human consciousness manipulation, is designed to cover up this cruel truth and to show this cruel truth in a completely different light, and the citizens are just watching what has hit them, watching, keeping quiet, and suffering. By when, no one knows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32349	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On his subtitle above the 62nd and the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32350	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS, I have proposed to delete Article 62, which provides that the AP Vojvodina has jurisdiction to determine the public interest in the field of information on its territory. What is this public interest in the area of information that the citizens of Vojvodina have, and which do not have other citizens in Serbia and vice versa? There is no such interest. You claim that the adoption of this law, this statute, is in the interest of the citizens of Vojvodina. That's not true. This statute is essentially, in the long run, directed against the vital interests of the citizens of Vojvodina. In Vojvodina, 70% of the population is made up of Serbs. It is their interest to make the Vojvodina as much as possible, as closely integrated into the state framework of RS, because they are aware that only in the Serbian state can they fully realise their national and individual interests. That it is also a tragic experience that Serbs from BiH, Croatia, Macedonia have recently experienced. By adopting this statute, you create a legal framework that will allow those who want to separate Vojvodina from Serbia to finish the job in a more likely manner. The position of national minorities in RS is better than in one country in Europe. Nevertheless, you are constantly imposing a debate on the position of national minorities in Serbia and the adoption of laws. I suggest that for a change, you ensure that in this assembly we discuss once the position of the Serbian people in neighbouring countries, e.g. about the position of the Serbian people in Hungary, so let's see what happened to the several hundred thousand members of the Serb people who lived in Hungary who disappeared. They left only traces.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32351	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 19 MPs of the DSS group submitted to Article 62 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32352	With this amendment, we tried to convince you to edit this area of public information in a different way. However, you showed how you edit the information space in August, when you passed that scandalous law on amendments and additions to the Information Act. I see none of the ministers are here to defend this law. At the beginning of the debate this morning was Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade. I immediately thought of what symbolism that is, that is, because this law is a trade agreement. It could also be called a transitional trade agreement, as well as an agreement that will take effect eight days after the day of publication in the Official Messenger. The trade agreement between the parties, however, lasted a little longer, almost a year, between the parties that exercise power. But this is also a trade agreement between factions in the DS, so as to get the impression that the party's president is capable of jeopardising the integrity of his country so as not to endanger the integrity of his party.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32353	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to Article 62 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32354	We are now approaching the part of the law that actually marks what is going to happen politically on the territory of Vojvodina, as a territory that will not have too much ties with Serbia and this public information at the province level, which is indeed referred in one part of the Constitution to the adoption of the law, is a clear sign that this is done. Namely, the AP Vojvodina through its authorities in the field of public information in accordance with the law, does this mean that Vojvodina will pass its law, determines the public interest of the people of Vojvodina in the field of public information and broadcasting and establish co-operation at regional level. We are now bringing this into line with Article 63, which says that the AP Vojvodina will, through its authorities, in the field of public information in accordance with the law to supervise the implementation of the law governing the area of public information in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. So, not only are you gentlemen writing this is not enough that you are entrusted with the field of public information regulated by the Law on Public Information in the territory of Vojvodina, but you still have your additional rights, so that public information, except for the one regulated by the AP Vojvodina, is no longer in the territory of Vojvodina. In part of Serbia's territory, you establish public interest, you who run the Vojvodina implement the Law on Public Information in the part of Serbia's territory, on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and have some kind of regional co-operation. What's that gonna turn into? In a completely closed media space where you will bomb the people of Vojvodina by talking about their alleged threat to other parts of Serbia, by talking about how much nicer, much easier, much faster to get to the EU, much richer to live in, how the rest of Serbia's ballast for their progressive, pro-European, traditional cultural, multiethnic, etc. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So, it's completely clear...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32355	Two minutes. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment, in the same text, a group of 19 MPs of the DSS group and MP Dusan Maric submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banovic, and the MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32356	We suggest that article 63 be deleted completely, that is, if we could convince you to delete this bill, that would be best. Some MP said that this debate in particular was aimed at convincing you, we who propose amendments, to accept our amendments. I think you should have realized by now that even through this debate in particular, we are trying to take advantage of time, which is two minutes, to convince you, the MPs of the majority, that you are not voting this complete bill, because we believe that this kind of decentralisation is completely stellar, that it will not bring anything good to Serbia, that it is completely set on the wrong principles and that your concept is completely wrong. Serbia's government has denied 160 competencies, and the consequences of the denial have not been seen. This is not a bill that leads to decentralisation. This is a bill that leads to centralization, i.e. creating another centre and creating another capital, so the question is how will the students of the first year of the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad in the future answer the question - what is the capital of this country? Will their answer be Novi Sad or Belgrade?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32357	The word has an MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32358	Ladies and gentlemen, we of the SRS have proposed to delete all members of this bill, because we believe that the bill, as well as the statute of the Vojvodina, is actually a means of payment for which DS and the ruling coalition are paying some of their bills. Boris Tadic buys Bojan Pajtic's loyalty with this statute and provides intra-party peace. The DS buys support from small coalition partners from Vojvodina, whose votes are necessary for the adoption of the RS budget and there is the most visible trade. You are our statute, we are your budget, and that is why we are discussing the statute before the adoption of the Republic budget. Third, the ruling coalition pays this statute the price of support it receives from the West. In particular, in Brussels and somewhat in Washington, it pays to lift visas and announced defrosting of the SAA, which is necessary for the ruling coalition to continue its policy of throwing dust into the eyes of Serbian citizens. You promised Serbian citizens a better life, you promised hills and valleys. Since you failed to provide them with this, then try to provide them with a European fog, and you buy an interpreter by paying it by violating state sovereignty and jeopardising the territorial integrity of the RS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32359	The word has an MP, Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32360	Article 63. The bill does not speak of a white Schengen zone, it does not talk about visa waivers, nor about EU membership bids, it is about the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina in the field of public information. So these are classified transactions, according to the position of the 2nd member. The essence of this article is that the AP Vojvodina, through its authorities, oversees the implementation of laws governing the field of public information in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The amendment of MP Dusan Maric, who is required to delete Article 63, I do not think it should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32361	It's been used 38 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? If not, National MP Nikola Žutic has submitted to the title above the 64th and 64th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32362	I request an amendment to delete Article 64, which transfers important republican scientific competences to the future state of Vojvodina. The position of the SRS is that science legislation must be unique for all Serbia. By activating this member of Vojvodina, for example, he will get his social science institutes, which will create the foundations of a new Vojvodinan history, the Vojvodinan language, the duchy literature, from which Serbian-Vojvodian markings will be increasingly thrown out, at the heart of the creation of a new Vojvodina mentality. In the scientific institutes, with the falsifications of the Vojvodina Academy, a new European so-called social history, and national and historical topics will be thrown out of the institute projects, while the deep history of key ideologies and political movements will simply be rejected. "Serbian Extremities", according to an estimate of similar Dukean historians, such as the Serbian Radical Jasa Tomic, will be removed from the Vojvodina textbooks of history or will receive a completely negative ideological political determination. The transfer of a series of key state responsibilities from the Republic to a new parallel state in establishment will create a dangerous state-terroral asymmetry in the Republic of Serbia. I would remind you that asymmetric state and territorial projects, because of their unsustainableness, only brought evil to the Serbian and former Yugoslavia's population. The anti-Serbian internationals have, as a rule, created new territorial, if necessary, new state-owned structures. For example, British public workers and influential lords performed miracles in their anti-Serbian cartography by withdrawing borders between the Serbian countries of the former Kingdom of Yugoslavia, with the mandatory separation of Vojvodina from Serbia and the accession of Croatia. The British deputy, Prince Pavle, also created anti-Serbian territory with his two anti-Serbian governments – Banovina Croatia, which had a particularly dominant asymmetric position compared to the rest of the kingdom. So the British Deputy Prince Paul's government realised such devastating ideas of the lords and the British government, and it was a real corpus separatum that had the same dominant position in the Kingdom as the Vojvodina will have after the vote of this statute. In Vojvodina, as once in Banovina Croatia, numerous responsibilities are transferred in the financial, scientific, educational, cultural, judicial and other areas. As a result of the creation of Banovina hrvatska, Broz's British cartographers, based on Banovinski measures from 1939, were preparing the administrative borders of the Communist People's Republic of Croatia in 1945. It's known that the asymmetric confe model... .
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32363	Thank you, People's Messenger. The time of the parliamentary group has been used. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 64th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32364	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have tabled an amendment to article 64 which deals with science and technological development and simply suggested that instead of these nine points, which are listed here as operations to be carried out by the AP Vojvodina, only four, and those points 2, 6, 7 and 8. We've added one of the necessary sentences, that all the entrusted transactions in this article are treated as confidential transactions, which doesn't usually say at the point, so there's a suspicion that these are the original transactions. Why did we take this? If anything in human activity doesn't recognise borders, it's science and technology. However, countries are forced to make their own state strategies in the development of science and technology, for two reasons. On the one hand, there are some jobs that are particularly important for a country, and on the other hand, unfortunately, there are some jobs for which there is no money, so they cannot be done. For example, it is difficult for Serbia to build a cyclotron and deal within Serbia with some top physics, it can only be part of a world team. That is why it seems a little strange to say in point 4, “it identifies and finances a science and technological development programme of the province. ” If someone can explain to me what kind of mathematics it is - of the country's importance or some other science, or, for example, Serbian language, it would be quite interesting to hear. As far as the Academy of Science is concerned, just one sentence. You know, there was this organization in New York about 20 years ago, called the Academy of Science, and anyone who sends $200 gets a certificate that he's a member of that academy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32365	Two minutes, thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 64th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia and together MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32366	This is the most ferocious example of breaking the Constitution in the process of adopting this bill. I must remind you, the MPs and the citizens of Serbia, that he is a member of 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has clearly defined that it excludes competence in the fields of science and technological development from the Republic of Serbia. Thus, there was no basis for this number of significant competences in the field of science and scientific research to be transferred to the province's authorities. Simply, this article wants to legalize something that has already been established, and that is, above all, the establishment of the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts. It was founded in 2003, and it is with the amendment that we want point 9, where it is said that it is necessary to secure the budget of the Vojvodina's financial resources for the work of the Vojvodina Academy. We believe that this is something that is both constitutional and illegal, above all against the Law on the Scientific and Research Action of the Republic of Serbia. Because if there's no money, then there's no academy. With regret we can conclude that the proponent, meaning the Government of the Republic of Serbia, did not take into account neither the opinion of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, nor the opinion of other prominent scientific and research workers from the Republic of Serbia, nor did you here take into account the debate on this bill absolutely into account the opinion of the opposition's representatives that corrections should be made in this article. We remain on the point that this point 9 should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32367	It's been two minutes, thank you. Anyone else want a word? On the title and subtitle above the 65th and the 65th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32368	Dear citizens of Serbia, I address you, since the government, as far as you can see, is not interested. They have put into the digitron, found that they have 126 government representatives, the ruling coalition is not interested either, because they have received their opinion under this law and by the statute of law from foreign political parents, I am informing you that another new state is being created in Serbia's territory in the last 10 days. Unlike the previous one, from the pre-nuptials they created with a bloody round of 72 days of bombing and which is called Kosovo and which is still on the suckle of crime or the West, there are authorities and government officials from Serbia and the shadow government, from the West, trying to create a new state in Serbia's territory. In particular, Article 65 refers to the employment service. I ask the creators of this law – what is it that is specific in Vojvodina, so the Employment Service in Vojvodina must be different from employment in all Serbia? In addition to the National Employment Service, why is a circuit employment service created? Is it to him who has no business in Subotica, in Zrenjanin and down in Vranj, however, he has no business. How are you going to regulate a new approach to the employment system with this law? Is this another way of taking away some of the statehood and creating this new state? To remind you of the citizens of Serbia, they've just cleared the foundations that are... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32369	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32370	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard a few interesting thesis here when it comes to this amendment, which are directly contrary to the fact that it is. It is a tendency to open one topic in Serbia and immediately turn it into a first-class issue, a fate issue for the country's citizens, who again serve to divide Serbian citizens into patriots and traitors. It shows that certain political parties have not made a decisive step towards the time that is coming and, much worse, have not learned lessons from the past in which they still live. I have a few things to mention. Here we have heard a reaction to the conditional reflex, where apriori is something that doesn't match the stereotypes, accepts as a traitor's opinion, as a Separatist opinion, as a secessionist's opinion. The reaction to the conditional reflex is an acceptable reaction, but we have the right to be at the sight of the policy of conditional reflexes to respond in the same way. I think that, as sober politicians, as reasonable politicians, we need a foothold to defend our political stances, but also to reject these amendments, to find in the will of the citizens who went to the referendum and pleaded for the new Constitution, and 3,500,000 were in the referendum. So when we talk about conditional reflexes, I know that the parole center is in a small brain, but a man if he wants to be successful and a politician, a man has to use a big brain. The big brain says it's for rational thinking, for sober thinking. Besides, there's a memory center in the big brain. Now I have to ask the citizens of Serbia, when we hear a sentence like this from people who are directly responsible for the situation in the southern Serbian province by their policy, that we sell something, sell out, I really have to ask them -- did you who turned the High Decade into a parking lot for NATO tanks now defend Krushedol and Sremska Karlovci? Are you transferring us here to conduct some treasonous policy through the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? I think your thesis is very dangerous, very wrong, that it's not based on real politics, that you're running a policy of sowing evil and hate. I understand that, the people who run such a policy have the right to do so, because if there is a better place for harvesting such a policy than Vojvodina's cereal, than Serbia's cereal, but I have to tell you next. The foothold for our policy lies exclusively in the majority will of Serbian citizens who went to the referendum on the new constitution and gave us the mandate to implement this law, and they were 3,521,724. This is not about any separatism, no wrong policy, this is about the implementation of the Constitution of this country. I think the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is as binding to us as it is to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32371	It was used three minutes and 22 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. People's MP Momir Markovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure You don't have the right to a replica. You can talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. [[Momir Markovic, from the place: No, replica.]] National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: I will not harm the Rules of Procedure, I am reporting for replication. You don't have the right to a replica, you can talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic submitted an amendment with a correction that proposed changing the name of section 17 and adding a new member of 65a after article 65a. The Constitutional Affairs Committee has accepted the amendment, and the government has not. Do you want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 66 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no need to answer to those who were being chased by the police as a locator by Kraševec and those who organized the riots of soldiers in Kosovo. I'm under the honor of answering them for the insults they've tried to place, and I remind you, ma'am, that he's said all this to my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32373	People's MP, I remind you that we are under obligation to respect Article 103(1) and to talk about the agenda. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic is a member of a parliamentary group that has 47 minutes and 40 seconds left, and that time of the parliamentary group, and for this parliamentary group as well as for each other is available to Members to use it according to their will. Please don't throw it away. [[Dragan Todorovic, from the place: What does that have to do with the replica?]] ... to use according to their will by respecting the agenda. It is your obligation as an amendment holder to speak of the subject matter of the amendment. If we're going to respect Article 103(1) together, then go ahead, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32374	I'll go back to the amendment then. What is it specifically about employment that the Vojvodina must have, and there is no rest of Serbia? Why is the employment that has been resolved at national level so far split? Isn't that the basis of 1984, from that law and those amendments where autonomy flourished, didn't they now just clean up the weeds and on these foundations make a new state? Why, if it isn't, then don't the regional service of Srema, the regional service of Backa, the regional service of Banata? Why don't we do regional, or city service so we can move on, rural services, and hire someone in the village? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law violates nine members of the Serbian Constitution: Art. 1, 2, 4, 8, 9, 179, 182, 183 and Article 185. Since I have very little time left to remind you, this is the state of Serbia that comes down to two new states and what's left of it. Thanks to mentors from the West, you'll do it, because you're not running politics, you're getting assignments from political parents from the West.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32375	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 67 and 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32376	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is only the first in a series of amendments that I have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, which essentially just confirms all of our objections that we have on this bill to determine the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. You could have heard the argument of what this is really about in all the discussions of the SRS. I will take this opportunity just to remind the public that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia clearly foresees that autonomous provinces, in accordance with the law, regulate matters of regional importance in the very areas of social life. The bill we are discussing provides that the AP Vojvodina has jurisdiction, that is to say, to carry out jobs in those areas of social life in which it is practically unable to have original competences. For example, it is an area of regional development, building facilities, sciences and technological development, employment, economy and privatisation, mining and energy, local self-government, official use of language and letter, judicial examination, state expert examination, judicial interpreters, expropriation, protection of intellectual property, etc. It is clear that all the provisions of the laws governing the original jurisdiction of the province in the areas of social life that are not mentioned in the Constitution would be anti-constitutional. The constitution made it clear that the provinces, in areas of social life in which they can have original competences, are regulating the very issues of the province's importance. The bill, as it is, sets out issues of general importance that are absolutely not of that nature.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32377	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 19 MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica – submitted a title above Article 67th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title and subtitle above Articles 68 and 68 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32378	It is this member of the Bill of Law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina that I mentioned earlier, as an area of social life where the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia absolutely foresees whether they are, and it has been shown that they are not, issues that should be regulated in this way. It's an area of mining, and then energy, it's another set of amendments that concern this area. Such a bill has made many anomalies, moreover, as the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina determines issues and jobs that in no way can be entrusted to the province, as the Constitution reserves them as exclusive jurisdiction for the republican level of government. The State Administration Act prohibits their trust in other levels of government organisation. It is therefore about the jurisdiction of policymaking in different areas, and the bill opposite the Constitution and the law defines the powers of the Vojvodina in the area and energy policy, which is also covered by this article to which the amendment has been submitted, and we have also been able to see that so far, and in the area of agrarian policy, policy in the field of gender equality, etc. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia predicts that the Republic of Serbia can pass the AP law on certain issues in its jurisdiction, but it is quite explicit. It is predicted that only certain issues can be entrusted to the province, making it practically impossible to trust all types of state administration affairs. Contrary to this, the bill provides that AP Vojvodina's authorities, which as original, which as trusted jobs in certain areas, should actually carry out all kinds of public administration affairs and thus the regional authorities of the administration actually take on the characteristics of the state administration's authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32379	Two minutes. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32380	I'll pick up where I left off. The draft law, which is absolutely illogically and needlessly changing certain valid solutions in the assembly procedure and regarding the supervision of the constitutionality and legality of the province's acts, and the concept of supervision of the hierarchical multi-central government over the conduct of the original and trusted operations of the provinces comes down to co-operation and improvement through some permanent and mixed commissions. It is not difficult to assume that since you have provided for the congregation's majority, when such a bill is passed, and then the statute, that from supervision, as authoritative activities of the central government, there will be virtually nothing left. The bill takes over the solutions contained in the draft statutes, where it is determined that, in its capacity, the AP Duke's things used under the law by the authorities of the AP Vojvodina and the institution of which it is the founder, such a provision would mark a practically uninterrupted kidnapping from the Republic. During the discussion we could have as perhaps the most impressive example to hear that this bill also provides for the AP Vojvodina to establish a public company for the management of the "Fruška gora" national park and to assume the rights, obligations, employees and resources of the already existing Public Enterprise National Fund "Fruška gora" on the day of the start of work. The Constitution of the Republic in Article 178(2) provides that the AP may, by its decision, entrust the units of local self-government with certain issues under its jurisdiction, but the bill stipulates that the province in the fields of culture, education, public information can entrust matters of its jurisdiction to the jurisdiction of national councils of national minorities. It is clear that the possible legal prediction of such a possibility would be totally unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32381	Two minutes. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the subheading above Articles 70 and 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32382	It is clear how many irregularities there are in many areas in this bill of jurisdiction. It is clear that Vojvodina is practically co-operated with relevant territorial communities of other countries within the external policy of the Republic of Serbia, with respect for territorial unity and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, which is in accordance with the Constitution, but is not allowed to do the question - what is considered to be an appropriate territorial community of another state with which Vojvodina can carry out interregional co-operation? How will it be ensured that interregional agreements are concluded under the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, with respect for its territorial unity and legal order? With this in mind, I will have to mention that in mid-June of this year in Brussels, the European Commission also made a decision on the establishment of the Danube European region in 2011, which should cover and connect the regions located in the Danube Basin, gradually creating a unique geographical, economic and cultural space. The initiative to create this region came, at least officially, three years ago from Novi Sad, which Bojan Pajtic proudly pointed out during his stay in Brussels last year. Meanwhile, the implementation of this project has moved quite far, and how seriously it is being witnessed by the Conference of the Presidency of the Danube Regions and Cities Council. A declaration on the Council's positions was adopted at a session held in Vienna, on the EU's strategy for Danube space, which envisions further steps in the creation of the Danube Euroregion. The work of the Council presidency was also attended by the president of the AP Assembly, Sandor Egereshi, who is also the deputy president of the Danube City Council and the region. According to Deutsche Vel, Egereshi is together with Peter Langer, director of the Danube Bureau of the German city of Ulma, one of the main promoters of the idea of Danube integration. To strengthen it, Egereshi recently proposed in Vienna the formation of the Danube Parliament and the Danube media network.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32383	Two minutes. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the subheading above Articles 71 and 71 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32384	Thank you. Just to finish, therefore, to strengthen it, Egereshia recently proposed in Vienna, as you heard, the formation of the Danube Parliament and the Danube media network. Under his proposal, the Danube parliament should allow political communication and integration of parliament, states, cities, regions and cities, institutions of the Danube region, while the Danube media network should support the implementation of the Danube strategy. The president of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina in Vienna has also proposed the inclusion of Slovak and Croatian cities and regions in the work of the Council of Danube Regions and Cities, and his initiatives are reportedly accepted, included and adopted in the declaration of positions of the Council. In line with the Danube strategy, there has been co-operation between the AP Vojvodina and neighbouring countries for several years, and the government's working group on co-operation with the EU for the Danube and the AP Vojvodina Working Group recently presented a list of co-operation projects with other Danube regions to be delivered to the operational centre, the Danube Bureau in Ulm and the European Commission in Brussels. The projects refer to various areas, which means multiethnicity and multiculturalism can be confirmed, for example, by working on a youth tolerance camp in Bačka Topoli, which in July this year brings together 180 girls and young people from Danube cities and regions, Egereshi said it is possible to build and strengthen European, Vojvodina and Danube identities through such programmes. With all this in mind, it should not be surprising to gather citizens outside the Assembly, who oppose the adoption of such a bill and statute.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32385	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32386	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment refers to the erasure of point 2) in Article 71, which reads: "AP Vojvodina solves at the request of approval for geological research". Serbia is a very wealthy country by mine wealth and it also confirms its presence in the world frameworks of well-known companies, such as Rio Tinto or Dandi, which conduct geological research at several locations in Serbia. Also, the number of licenses issued for geological research from year to year is increasing, so in 2002 58 licenses were issued, in 2004, 83, 2006, 92, and in 2008 even 101 licenses. In 2008 alone, some 80 locations of foreign and domestic companies invested around 18m euros. That's exactly the main motive of the proposer of this law. It's a motif of money that's obtained from granting approval for geological research. However, at the Ministry of Mining and Energy site, a list of 21 licensed colleges, institutes and firms that can only work projects in the field of geological research has been provided. Of the 21 designer houses, one is from Lazarec, two from Bor and 18 from Belgrade. What does that mean? It means that there is no one in the field of geological research in the Vojvodina area with a reference to being able to guide and design these research. You guys trust someone who doesn't know how to do it. Support for this amendment by the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" SNS lies also in Articles 5 and 26. The law on geological research, which is very explicit, so Article 5 states: "The basic geological research is a matter of general interest to the Republic of Serbia and is financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia." What made you change your mind? Why are geological research no longer a matter of general interest? Also in Article 26, which is even more precise, it says: "Geological research in a given space is carried out on the basis of approval for research issued by the ministry", not an autonomous province.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32387	Two minutes. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the subheading above Articles 72 and 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32388	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this member of the bill on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina is just a continuation of a series of fully anti-constitutional members containing such a bill and which will likely cause what the SRS parliamentary group has indicated through the submission of amendments to all the members that have been processed in the assembly procedure. I would take this opportunity for the sake of the public, to remind myself that it is obvious that such a bill in parts of Serbia outside Vojvodina does not seem to cultivate any European values, as it is obvious that the AP Vojvodina is different from the rest of Serbia. It's really not clear, if these aren't European values, what is it really about? The whole bill may introduce some new category of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The SRS pointed out that the existence of regions related to the AP Vojvodina, apparently there are some special rights, such as and the right to represent in Brussels, but that there are no or no regions in which some other class of citizens live. In our opinion, this is an obvious example of discrimination, but if this aspect of the issue is left out, the political side remains, which is much more dangerous, because we may be in a situation where Brussels, as the EU headquarters, tomorrow can openly blackmail Serbia to, say, recognise KIM if it wants to join the EU. The question arises whether politicians from the AP Vojvodina can then appeal to their special tradition -- to cultivate European principles and values, which the state of Serbia has so generously recognised by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32389	Two minutes. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 73 and 73 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32390	The 73rd article is very strange because the Republic of Serbia invents some new competences, and is entrusted to the AP Vojvodina. In fact, Article 73 of the three points provides for Vojvodina to give an opinion on a proposal for the establishment of new units of local self-government, the abolition or merger of existing, the change of borders and the headquarters of units of local self-government in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, although the Constitution is clear and in Article 188 says: "The territory and headquarters of the local self-government units are determined by law. The establishment, removal and change of the territory of the local self-government unit of the previous referendum on the territory and the local self-government unit." So the citizens of a single unit of local self-government decide to do something with their local self-government, complete all the affairs of a certain constitution and turn to the bill that their work, which they have done in accordance with the Constitution, is implemented in accordance with the law. What's up with the AP Vojvodina? Then, you say "to supervise the legality of the work and acts of the body of the unit of local self-government", even though the Constitution says in Article 192 that the government is required to suspend the exercise of a general act of the municipality that it considers not to be in agreement with the Constitution or the law. What's the AP Vojvodina gonna do if it's not a confidential job? You did not write that it was trusted, but you found that for 3) a point, where previous consent is given to the local self-government assembly in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, when determining holidays and decision-making on street names, squares, that was most important to you, and that is what you are now asking to be entrusted as a job. You don't trust me. So, the citizens of a unit of local self-government have no confidence in their government, but in Novi Sad, through a government transmission, will turn around when they ask for a change in the name of the street, the squares, when they ask to determine the holidays. In this will be the fall of the Republic of Serbia in front of separatism...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32391	Two minutes. Thank you. A group of 19 MPs of the DSS group submitted to the amendment to Article 73. The word is from Ambassador Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32392	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, in this section that regulates local self-government, writes that the AP Vojvodina, through its authorities in the area of local self-government, according to the law, gives an opinion on proposals for establishing new units of local self-government, eliminating or joining existing, changing borders and units of local self-government in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Both point 1) and point 3 are similarly defined. I'm asking a question -- who does it give consent to: yourself, the local self-government? Where is the ministry in this member of the law? Of course, the AP Vojvodina should give its opinion, but I guess it points to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. I don't know if you've informed Mr. Milan Markovic that his intelligence stops when it comes to Vojvodina. We have proposed to amend this member, not to delete it, but to stand exactly as the Constitution and the law stipulate - that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is giving an opinion on the AP Vojvodina initiative. We heard during this debate, your mouth is full of decentralisation. Some ruling coalition parties have said that Vojvodina has received too little, some have said that it is the right measure and that it is the best that could be achieved at this time. That's why our fear of what's going to happen in a few years and what's going to happen with the AP Vojvodina. I think the best answer to this question was given by the best mayor for 2007, Mr. Goran Knezevic, who has just said there is no decentralisation here, but only a new address in Novi Sad, not more in Belgrade. The fact is that it is the abolition of the government's authority of the Republic of Serbia and the responsibility of the ministry, that you are indeed planning to achieve it within a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32393	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 74 and 74 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32394	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, according to the provisions of this article proposed, in Article 74, one of the national features is to take over the network and organise judicial authorities. Next, as provided for in Article 77, the judicial exam must also be taken on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Will other territories and districts have that chance in Serbia? He won't. One of the traits of statehood is the right to establish representation in the regions of Europe and Brussels, according to Article 16 of the Statute. This right is, in fact, the ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs of the Democratic Party, the sovereign state, they don't even have federal units, they don't have such a right in real Federations, and you've allowed this matter to be arranged in one anti-constitutional way. You have allowed yourself to be established in Brussels as well as one seat of your Vojvodina representativeship, where it is the headquarters of the Supreme Command and the Atlantic Pact and the central authorities of the EU. In practice, this would mean that, besides Serbia as a state, Vojvodina would have its diplomatic representations and even at the command of the Atlantic Pact in Brussels. The next feature of statehood is the Vojvodina Academy, and everywhere in the world it is known that there is only one academy in one country. The next mark of the statehood of Vojvodina is the jurisdiction of the province's assembly to make decisions that have the significance of the law on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Here, in a hidden way, the AP Vojvodina and its assembly are trying to obtain legislative jurisdiction, as provided for in Article 48 of the 4th indent, which mentions the province's...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32395	Two minutes, thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32396	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment for Article 74. The bill says this member is unnecessary and harmful. That's how it's written in the explanation of the amendment. Article 74. The bill says that the AP Vojvodina, through its authorities, is concerned under the law about the exercise of human rights and the rights of national minorities. Then, it achieves co-operation with churches and religious communities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and assists their actions in the public interest; it arranges and is an old age for the achievement and improvement of the policy in the field of gender equality in the AP Vojvodina; it provides the public with the work of the regional authorities of the administration, etc. I don't think this member of the bill is unnecessary and harmful, I even think it's necessary and beneficial. Often people fear what they don't understand, so primitive communities fear lightning, thunder, natural phenomena. Imagine, eclipse, upside down, no sun. There's no reason, really, to act like one. They say about the law and the statute that citizens feel this or that, and citizens should not feel it, but rather know that by adopting the law and giving consent to the Statute of the AP Vojvodina will not create a new state, it will only work better. Believe me, we Pančevs will not be in Belgrade in Roma, as the Belgrade citizens will not be in Roma in Pancheva either.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32397	Two minutes and five seconds have been used by the MP's group. (Petar Jojic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. National MP, the parliamentary group has time for discussion in particular. The ZES Group has 47 minutes and 40 seconds left. When an MP will use his time, it is at the will of the MP group, each of the ten parliamentary groups that are in the National Assembly. You have no right to a replica. Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to Article 74 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32398	We have submitted an amendment to three provisions of this article...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32399	I'd like to ask MP Momir Markovic, if you'll excuse the MP, to stop throwing it away. You've been warned about the drop. Please stop throwing and breaking Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly apply to all of us and the conduct that the provisions are only against opponents is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so I am seriously warning you not to force me to impose criminal measures. It's much less what I like to do and break the rules than it is with those who want my co-operation to express criminality. Excuse me, MP, 45 seconds will be extended. Time is available for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32400	In the case of three provisions of this article, we intervene because we believe that the provisions defined by the state are not autonomy. One is that the AP Vojvodina takes care of the exercise of human rights and the rights of national minorities and lays down additional rights in this area. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 14 regulates the protection of national minorities and says the Republic of Serbia protects the rights of national minorities and that the state guarantees special protection to national minorities in order to achieve full equality and preserve their identity. In Article 75 on the basic provision of the rights of members of national minorities, it says - to members of national minorities, in addition to the rights guaranteed by the Constitution to all citizens, additional individual or collective rights are guaranteed. Individual rights are exercised individually and collectively in the community with others, in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the international treaty. Where do you find the rights of national minorities in Serbia at risk, so Vojvodina will establish their additional rights in this area? Constitutional rights are quite enough for minority members and Vojvodina may, in accordance with Article 183, take care to exercise human and minority rights in accordance with the law, but never invent what rights are not provided for in the Constitution and the law. Then you suggest that Vojvodina appoints a network of courts in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, although a month ago in this same composition you passed a law by which a network of courts was designated at the republican level. You had another one, which is that in the fields of culture, education and public information, businesses from their jurisdiction can be entrusted to national minority councils. Imagine now in the field of education, culture, the Republic of Serbia entrusts the work of Vojvodina in specific areas, even here you worked out in 20 or 30 points all that is entrusted in the fields of culture, education, information, and then here you just say...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32401	Two minutes, thank you. Anyone else want a word? I ask the MPs who receive "three minutes" to read through the stenograms of the session immediately after the MP and president of the Prosperity Group of Serbia received the word and the MPs who receive to stop breaking Article 104 and demeaning the reputation of the National Assembly. Anyone else want a word? The 74th Amendment was submitted by a group of 19 MPs of the DSS group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32402	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, I do not know why Mr. Mikovic, who is not afraid of lightning or lightning, or of the eclipse, was afraid to read point 4) and point 5) in this article, which says the AP Vojvodina proposes a network of courts in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and in the fields of culture, education and public information can trust jobs from its jurisdiction with national councils of national minorities. The DSS did not propose to delete this whole member, but rather points 4 and 5), which are directly contrary to the law and opposing the Constitution. We don't think they can exist in this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32403	Anyone else want a word? The 75th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia", a group of 19 MPs from the DSS group and MP Petar Jojic. The word is a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković, and the MP of the people Arsen Đuric, then the MP of the people, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32404	The amendment requires that Article 75 be deleted because it has arranged a programme to implement the National Investment Plan, and that programme is in fact implementing a constitutional provision of a uniform regional development which, as constitutionally defined, is the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the territory of the state of which the government is. Article 94 states that the Republic of Serbia is looking after balanced and sustainable regional development in accordance with the law. Under the Law on Regional Development, the AP Vojvodina has its responsibilities, as third-invited, so to speak, after the government and the ministries responsible for this area. Why is this the jurisdiction of the state in all its territory? Because even regional development is exactly enforceable, as a basic tax principle to increase the well-being of each individual, and it opposes the basic principles of the authors of this law, who believe that one who has more should pay the same as one who has less. These people do not know the basic theory of the tax system that says the tax system is based on the principle of equal sacrifice and that the state should worry about the well-being of every citizen. That the state does not care about the well-being of every citizen, says the tax system. It would be much better for every citizen in Vojvodina and Serbia if this country had done something about easier business in this area, because we have 13 laws that regulate the tax system, 18 regulations, 91 regulations, 56 regulations, 28,000 interpretations, half of which is the VAT law and 35 international agreements that regulate exactly that part...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32405	Two minutes, thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Arsen Đuric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32406	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 75, which we propose to delete. Article 75 is governed by the planning and implementation of the NIP on the territory of Vojvodina. For the sake of the public, I will read Article 75 – AP Vojvodina, through its authorities, initiated, co-ordinated and implemented projects of the NIP for the territory of Vojvodina, co-operates with the competent ministries in considering and assessing the reporting of projects for the territory of Vojvodina, makes up a proposal for a list of projects for the territory of Vojvodina, establishes and manages an electronic and documentation database, monitors the dynamics of spending on individual projects, and reports the Government once every three months. So we talked here in the previous days about how harmful this law is, that is, that it is against the constitution and that it lays the foundations of a new state, and the representatives of the ruling coalition have told us that it is about decentralisation of government. It is this member who speaks of the fact that there is nothing of decentralisation, but of the fact that this law, or this article, carries out the classic centralization of power and power in Novi Sad. So, municipalities from Serbia will compete with the Ministry of National Investment Plan with their projects, while the municipalities of Vojvodina will be disabled because the province's administration in Novi Sad will make a list of projects, a list of priority projects and send it to the ministry in Belgrade. We suggested that this member be deleted. As in previous days, and we are now stressing that this law is completely nakaradic and harmful, that it does not decentralise the authorities in Vojvodina, but that the centralisation in Novi Sad is being carried out and that the citizens of Vojvodina will not have much, but will have a political elite in Novi Sad.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32407	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32408	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that someone does not know the Constitution, but knows how to read certain provisions of this Separatist law, which, in any case, is harmful to Serbia. If Article 143. The constitution foresees -- establishment, organisation, jurisdiction, regulation and composition of courts are governed by law, then there's nothing to talk about anymore. On the other hand, if you are scheduled to pass the New Sad judicial exams, and that is something that is absolutely against the law. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I want this opportunity to remind you of the latest elections in the AP Vojvodina. In May 2008, 1,410,000 pickers were registered. 900,000 came out, and 505,000 didn't go to the polls and didn't vote. The Serbian Radical Party then reached 22% of the vote, only one less than the European Vojvodina. The question arises – with which most separatists and autonomists believe they convince Serbia and the Serbian people that they have won and that is the will of the people? It's not the will of the people. This is the will of a imposed minority ruling over most, and this is seen from the latest elections in the AP Vojvodina. First of all, you, citizens of Serbia, did not go to the elections in May. Yes, most of them, you have allowed this minority to separate Vojvodina. Thanks to your failures, because you did not go to the polls, they disintegrate Serbia, break down, establish new borders and tear Serbia apart. Dear citizens, you have allowed others to decide your fate. The Serbian Radical Party does and will do everything in its power to join you...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32409	Two minutes, thank you. The title above Articles 76 and 76 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Petar Jojic and a group of 19 MPs from the DSS group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32410	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished voters, if you'd gone to the polls, and you're the majority, you couldn't have easily gotten the Constitution for the gift of these separatists who joined the US and Germany project. It's clear to you, ask yourself what state you should live in, whether you'll have your own country, whether your children and your grandchildren will have to learn and the Greek language. You didn't go to the May 2008 election, and you know they took your factories, kidnapped your businesses, left you out of a job. Your children have no perspective, no employment, and schooling will be very difficult and selection will be carried out. So, if you'd gone out, you wouldn't have agreed to this kind of policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32411	People's MP, I remind you of article 103 and the obligation to speak on the subject of the agenda. Please use the remaining minute to discuss the amendment to the title above Articles 76 and 76. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32412	Give me back my time. Please, if you'll let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32413	People's MP, I just said that I remind you of Article 103 to get back to the agenda, that it's your obligation to respect article 103 and that you have another minute, at the moment I interrupted you, based on my business powers, I've told you that. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32414	How much time do I have left, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32415	Third time I'm talking, you have a minute from the moment you keep talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32416	I'm talking to the citizens about the statutes, and the statutes are against a constitutional and anti-state act. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32417	People's MP, on the agenda is not a statute. There's a particulars search on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32418	That's awesome. A law that's just been counter-constitutional. I'm sorry, you didn't seem to understand me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32419	I understand you perfectly. It's on the agenda to search the details of the law, not the statutes, that was the other day. Please, one minute you still have, one minute you've used it. You have one minute, on the basis of Article 103 – a search on the agenda point. Your amendment is a matter that says that the title above article 76 and article 76 is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32420	Yes, it is the jurisdiction and this law being passed, Madam Chairman, that is against the constitution, and I must point out that there is no majority that has decided to propose to the Republic of Serbia the adoption of such an anti-state act. Most of them didn't make the election. That's what you know yourself, Mrs. Comic. Honored citizens of Serbia, now before God, before themselves, in front of the people of Serbia, in front of their children... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32421	National MP, you have been warned of the application of Article 103 to the agenda. You have 40 seconds left if you want to sign up and talk about the agenda? Yeah. You have the right to speak for 40 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32422	I object to such a bill. I repeat that this is an anti-state act of the Republic of Serbia, that this is a project of Germany and America. I must remind the citizens of Serbia of the proposed text of this law on determining jurisdiction. Dear citizens, I'm speaking again. You didn't go to the polls when they took your businesses, took your factories and your dignity. Now before God, before me, in front of the people of Serbia, in front of my children and grandchildren, I want so much to tell you. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32423	People's MP, please listen to me. You have two warnings of disrespect for the agenda. I give you my first warning. Anyone else want a word? If not, National MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted to the 76th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32424	We asked this amendment to replace the words "in accordance with the law" with the words "the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the law". In the Serbian Temerina, this flag is winding up. This is the Hungarian flag. (National MP Aleksandra Jankovic shows the flag. ) In Serbian Temerin, you can also buy "64 County" T-shirts at the market. (The national emissary Aleksandra Jankovic points to a T-shirt. Here's what a shirt looks like.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32425	National MPs, please do not advertise the products of various manufacturers, whether they are sold at markets or in authorized shops. It is not strictly prohibited by the Rules of Procedure, but I consider it a violation of the reputation of the National Assembly and a threat to the status of the MP. No advertising of any product is allowed. Please sign up, you'll get your word, and we'll talk about the amendment you've submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32426	Mrs. Comic, you're against the constitution. You're not in line with the Constitution. I did not talk about the shops, nor did I talk about brands, I spoke about members of the "64 County" group working against the interest of the Hungarian people and against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32427	National MPs, bring the group concerned into contact with your amendment, in accordance with Article 103(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32428	It's very much about the amendment. The Constitution is the oldest act that must be respected. It can't be changed by simple majority. You've made mistakes here today, somewhere, at some point, to make a vote, separate Vojvodina, and make another state in the country. You're waiting for a moment when you'll do it. You thought the amendment would pass. Despite the ban on the assembly, despite media stories that the gatherings have been cancelled, you have in front of the Assembly concerned Serbs who have questions for you. Why, gentlemen, are you holding press conferences? I just saw Mr. Palma. Why don't you go outside for a moment of direct democracy with concerned Serbs? They don't trust you to regulate anything by any law. You are violating the Serbian Constitution. You, Mrs. Comic, are anti-constitutional. Let me quote one more thing. Someone told you in his day – Goco, don't try my patience, shut up. It was Mr. Zoran Djindjic, this is the time to read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32429	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Donka Banovic wants a word after the previous amendment. She didn't use two minutes straight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32430	It was my fault. I didn't put the card all the way in. The members of the DSS shall have objections to this Article 76, to its contents, but also to the place to which it belongs in this draft law. Otherwise, it's about the official use of language and letters. In the framework of the amendment to Article 8. The draft law, in the basic provisions, gave the content of what should be said by this member who regulates this matter, namely the work of the AP Vojvodina authorities in official use, together with the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter and languages and letters of national minorities, in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Serbia. You have not accepted this amendment. You're suggesting that the AP authorities will edit this matter. This matter is arranged. First of all, it is governed by the Constitution, and the official use of language and letters is also regulated by law. If you gave the status of a national community in the Statute of Vojvodina to the Serb majority people in Vojvodina, so the Serb people are in the same status as, say, the Macedonian national minority, without any intention of insulting members of the Macedonian national minority, then you must admit that we must be suspicious. Perhaps the authority, authorized AP Vojvodina, comes out with a proposal and office of the matter by writing: the Serbian national community speaks Serbian, the Macedonian national community speaks Macedonian. So you give the entire statute the right to doubt and to be concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32431	The 76th Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 19 MPs of the DSS group and MP Zoran Krasic submitted to the title above Articles 77 and 77 of the same text. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32432	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another member who is not in line with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia because he predicts that the AP Vojvodina through its authorities, in accordance with the law governing the passing of a judicial exam, for those who have residence on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, educates the examination committee and organises the passing of a judicial exam. It is proposed that Vojvodina form this examination committee, that all persons who have residence on the territory of the Vojvodina undergo a judicial exam in Novi Sad. As far as I know, there have been three examination committees, composed of Supreme Court judges, from law professors from all over the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and the commission has been investigating candidates in a judicial trial. The Commission was educated by the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I call on you to respect the DSS amendment and that this completely pointless member is deleted from the law because, as far as I know, the new law on taking a judicial examination has not come to the assembly procedure, and under the applicable law, there is no possibility of a judicial examination being passed in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32433	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32434	There is absolutely no interference that the competent state authority which organises the passing of a judicial examination will determine that, I don't know, some persons living in Nis territory, Pirota, Vranja to pass a judicial exam in Nis, as there is no obstacle that the competent justice ministry will decide that for those from the territory of the AP Vojvodina a judicial exam is being passed in Novi Sad. I do not see any valid reason to transfer, as a trusted state-owned business, the AP Vojvodina's passing of a judicial examination, especially in a way that also educates the examination committee, etc. What is much more important for citizens at this time is that they must be aware that those who vote for this bill actually vote to cut Serbia short on Belgrade Pashalu, and do so by order before December 1st, as big trade begins tomorrow before the International Court of Justice. They're in the story of both KIM territory, the north, and autonomy in autonomy. And look at the wonders of the great, you've taken to one job where you give Serbs autonomy compared to Serbs. Is there more evidence that you're offering someone that there's discrimination and inhumane treatment here than what you're going to do after 12 hours, when with 140 votes you're going to vote, burning, happy to do another harm to your people?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32435	Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 19 MPs of the DSS group and MP Zoran Krasic submitted to the title above Articles 78 and 78 of the amendment. The People's Messenger Miroslav Petkovic has the word, and the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32436	An argument similar to that in the previous article, as is the case with the judicial examination, this bill provides that for a state expert examination for persons employed in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, an examination is to be conducted on the territory of Vojvodina. Let me remind you one more time, the state examination committee is forming the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. It reiterates the situation as provided for in Article 73, the responsibilities of Mr Milan Markovic and his ministry are again lifted. I urge you to accept this amendment not because of Milan Markovic, but because of the functioning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the competent ministry and the functioning of a single system throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The Duke in this area has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32437	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32438	Probably whoever designed this member could not say what the authorities of the state administration are in the territory of the AP Vojvodina in the jurisdiction of the AP. That's nonsense. The authorities of the state administration are the ministries. It is a condition for certain matters within the city administration, the municipal administration, to be passed a state-run examination to qualify for the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act. But since this is a non-return project, as you have imagined, you need the AP to have the authority to form a state commission before which the state's examination will be conducted. Now that that's the case, how can you find any argument over those who are criticizing you to prepare in the near future for the creation of a state in the country. It will not be a state in the first stage, but given that you must vote today in order for Boris Tadic's negotiating position tomorrow in Brussels and The Hague to be much better, so that he can finally think about what Dobrica Cosic is 20 years ago and imagine what to share and what if in the AP Vojvodina someone gets another autonomous province.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32439	A group of 19 MPs of the DSS and MP Zoran Krasic submitted to the title above Articles 79 and 79 of the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Miroslav Petkovic, so the MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32440	After having passed the judicial examination, after having passed the state expert examination, it is also predicted that permanent court interpreters who perform their duties on the territory of Vojvodina will be registered in the register to be led by the AP Vojvodina. I think this puts all those people who can do this job in a very good way, who are working on the territory of the entire Republic, and that just by putting together such a register, there will be discrimination, so that someone from Serbia under the Sava will not have the opportunity to do this job in front of the competent courts. This is the height of nonsense, and I urge you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32441	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32442	This is another member showing schizophrenic ruling coalition. What's this about? It is about the fact that a permanent court interpreter will have to sign up with the Justice Department to work on the territory of a court in what you are about to call "Uzress", Serbia, and someone will be registered as a permanent court interpreter for the territory of the AP Vojvodina. If he wanted to perform his work in the unique area of RS, he would have to be registered in two registers, and you forgot about one situation that in fact we have a free state with one AP and one AP where you didn't think to regulate the relationship in a similar way and transfer the powers of state authorities. Who's gonna know what you're doing? It is likely that Boris Tadic, probably someone who represents us in front of the International Court of Justice, such as Mr. Tibor Varadi, will probably make it clear to Olli Rehn, possibly NATO's pact, probably the EU, that you are on track to accomplish everything they could not finish in 99. That's the real story. Serbia protects the majority of Serbs from the territory of Vojvodina from the majority of the Serb population from the entire territory of Serbia. That's the schizophrenic rule. You're making the country unnecessary. Please, everything you've done with this law and what you're proposing is in conflict with the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination. Any member of this proposal follows discrimination, discrimination, discrimination. Why do you care so much that you discriminate against the citizens of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32443	It's been two minutes. On the subheading above Articles 80 and 80, MP Zoran Krasic, who wants a word, submitted the 80th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32444	It's an area called expropriation. You are more in Vojvodina than the Expropriation Act, nothing is necessary. You've locked everything in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The proof of this is primarily in this article, because the provinceal authorities will solve for complaints against the expropriation solution and there is the beginning and the end of the story, if it is known that the expropriation refers to something that is immobility, whether the land, whether the object, whether it is something that is official, you have practically closed the whole story. You don't even need a law on public property. You don't need any regulations. You're a state-of-the-art state. Of course, that's where your judges are, your courts. You still need Bojan Pajtic to take over the DS, in order to finance the future state you are making in AP, based on trusted jobs. Why? Because trusted businesses are funded, first of all, from the RS budget. Those transactions that the Republic is transferring to the AP, funds are provided in the RS budget. So, it is only necessary in the next elections within DS Boris Pajtic and Gordana Komic to take an even better position in the DS, to have another voter fraud take place, to reach positions in the RS government and now, as it happens with Dragin, Dulic and others, there goes the migration of capital and then those miserys and miserys from Crna Trava, Pirot, finance the isolation and formation of a new state in RS territory. It's that dirty job you're doing, but you don't have any friends from the SRS in that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32445	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 80th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 80th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) 19 MPs of the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica and MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the title of the above-member 81s and the 81st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32446	Article 81 refers to the protection of intellectual property rights and copyright. The DSS suggests that article 81 and the title above article 81 are deleted. On the agenda of the session that we interrupted to discuss the law on confirming the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina and to confirm the Statute of Vojvodina, and if we are politically responsible for our country, this law will not be passed, nor will the Statute of Vojvodina be confirmed, there are also copyright and related law and intellectual property law. Regardless of all the shortcomings in these legal proposals, when the Serbian Parliament adopts them, they will also apply to the intellectual property and copyright of Serbian citizens living in APV. Otherwise, the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, which the Serbian Assembly still needs to discuss, has a huge flaw that is almost exclusively concerned with the rights of authors of those works that are recorded on the bearers of sound or images, and are also making massive use of them, and thus potentially bringing big money. Who do they bring money to - that's a tough question? The IPR law concerns more foreign than domestic patents, and its virtue is compliance with European norms and worldly accepted terminology.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32447	There is a word from MP Dejan Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32448	I have submitted an amendment to Articles 81, 82, 83 and 84. All these amendments are related, as well as other amendments to the SRS, because our principled position is - that this statutes of law that follows the statutes are not good. In that sense, we have heard that MPs from the authorities are also trying to make their arguments, but when we look at what legal science says, then we will see how disastrous the law and statutes are for our country. You must remember that in 1971, that is, amendments to so-called '71 were submitted. The Briony Constitution. The only ones who then rebelled against these disastrous amendments were professors from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. The famous 3 anals of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, which included Costa Cavoski, Mihajlo Đuric, etc. The same one, Costa Chavoski, an academic, professor who teaches Introduction to Law, one of the basics of law school, wrote a scientific paper received on 1.11.2008 entitled "The State of Vojvodina and the possibility of secession". So it is more than clear, more than a clear parallel between the then Constitution, the amendments and these disastrous legislative proposals that we are now considering. In that sense, there is another side. The other side is those who support the break-up of the SFRY, and now Serbia. For example, Zivan Berisavljevic, Bosko Krunic and similar, who now talk about the so-called "Communism" instead of the words "Communism". "European Union", which is also a kind of utopia, such as communism.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32449	The subtitle above the 82nd and the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32450	Academic Chavoski specifically published a text printed on 12 November 2009 in a prominent weekly, and it literally states about the jurisdiction law - that as many as 166 republican responsibilities are transferred to the province. So this is the opinion of the legal profession. It's not our opinion, nor our opposition's subjective attitude. Also, he says - over a few hundred new employees and workers will be employed in the state administration, so-called. APV. What does that mean? It means that neither the letter on the intentions of the governor, the finance minister and the prime minister were respected on 30 April to the IMF, where it is solemnly promised in an uncolonial manner -- that there will be no more employment in the public sector. What that means is that in this case, as far as jurisdiction law is concerned, they were stronger political motives than economics. It's totally destroying the so-called. The phrase - that we will live better if Vojvodina gets the elements of statehood. Also, as regards the opinion not only of the legal profession, but also of the people, I will remind you of the survey of the Policy Agency in February 2008, where 45% of the citizens were declared against the Vojvodina Statute, although its provisions are probably not fully clear to our citizens, and only 33% were declared to the Statute. So it is more than clear that both the legal profession and the people are against this scandalous draft statute and the jurisdiction law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32451	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was also submitted by Dejan Mirovic to the subtitle above the members of 83rd and to the article 83rd. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32452	Over a year, there's been debates over the statutes, and we've seen that the central government had one principled position. It was something that was pleasantly surprising to us. But a year after that, we came into a situation -- that the position of the central government, more specifically the President of the Republic and the Government, had changed. How is that possible? It is only possible if the European Commission's September 2009 report on Serbia is reviewed. The fifth foreign report states that jurisdiction law should be adopted and the statutes should be adopted. So when it's meant to be, then it's clear that it's so-called. Right, Brussels law, stronger than the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because there is no other explanation for it. The only rational explanation would be that if this harmful statute and jurisdiction law were adopted, we would live better. But that's not true. The EU gives more per capita, so-called. The state of Kosovo, rather the Republic of Serbia without the AP Kosovo. This shows the 2008 data, where IPA funds are promised, means "promises" and will not be fulfilled in practice, around 198m euros. So-called The state of Kosovo promises about 100m euros. So you can see whose side Brussels is on. You can see what's gonna happen in case it comes to the so-called. The failure of European integration and how Mr Pajtic will react, who has already said -- it is much more important for him to be a European commissioner than for him to have any role in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32453	The title above article 84 and article 84 of the amendments, in the same text, was submitted by 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica and MP Dejan Mirovic. He wants the word of Mrs. Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32454	When it comes to commodity reserves, I will point 6 of the Constitution, which is Article 97, which speaks of the competencies of the Republic of Serbia, and says, "The Republic of Serbia regulates and provides a single market and, among other things, provides and regulates goods reserves." This is where you proposed to Article 84, where it says, "APV educates APV stock reserves through its organs". Please, this needs to be deleted. You can't even see here that it's the jurisdiction that's been transferred, so it doesn't stand in this article. If it doesn't say jurisdiction has been transferred, it means it's the original jurisdiction. Then the question also arises - what then of the Republic of Serbia's stock reserves? Is it then the stock reserves of citizens living in APV or will everyone have their own stock reserves, or does that mean that the citizens of Dimitrovgrad only have one, and the citizens of Vojvodina have two. So this member is really anti-constitutional to you and he's practically putting in place a kind of uncertainty in the province itself, but also on the market.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32455	He has the word Mr. Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32456	Under this jurisdiction law, the question is raised, just like with regard to the statutes, what are European values? We would understand that it is the European Convention on Human Rights of the 1950s. We fully support it, but what are European values in practice? Are those the values represented by Hashim Thaci and Ramush Haradinaj? Whether these are the values that apply when admitting so-called. Kosovo or are these neotitoistic values, which are taught by Zivan Berisavljevic and Bosko Krunic? If that's what it is, then you need to make that clear. Although it must be noted that this Euroentusism in all Eastern European countries is becoming smaller and smaller, and I will give you an example of the Czech Republic, where, according to recent studies, 56% have declared against the European Union in the Czech Republic. So, that so-called. The EU's eutopia, which is more than similar to that of the East European titoist, is no longer passing. Only with us is it possible to break up the state union of Serbia-Montenegro because of the so-called state union of Serbia-Montenegro. European values, only with us can such an anti-constitutional statute be introduced, only with us is it possible to accept so-called. The Eulex mission. In the end, I'll remind you, and in 1974, a small number of teachers rebelled against the Bryon Constitution. Mihajlo Đuric went to prison for a year for this, but retroactively after that something happened in history called the event of the people and it is not excluded that it will happen again, and when we see it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32457	On behalf of Glava 3, above Article 85, and Article 85 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Alexic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32458	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have submitted an amendment to Article 85, which requires that the title of Chapter 3 be deleted above article 85, all to prevent this new Cankistan, the separatist tension in the Republic of Serbia and so on. As you know, both the statute and the law on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, Vojvodina is being injected with additional 166 competencies, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, more specifically Article 183. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So someone slowly creates the Nucleus, the seed of some future separatism, creates a basis for new conflicts in the Republic of Serbia, among Serbian citizens and indeed an anti-constitutional solution. What's interesting? The competencies provided by the AP Vojvodina are so much greater than those of Republika Srpska. So, it's just amazing. On the one hand, the EU is demanding that Republika Srpska be shut down and that is the EU's liquid, which is European value, and on the other hand requires an increase in the mandate of the AP Vojvodina. In addition to increasing jurisdiction, the administration will also increase, create 12 new institutions, while citizens working in the state administration in other parts of the Republic of Serbia will be fired, in the AP Vojvodina will be hired. Also, the AP Vojvodina will have the right to establish foreign representations and will have the right to sign international contracts. So it is obvious that the basis for separatism in Vojvodina is set by this law, as well as by the Statute of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32459	The amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic, who also wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32460	I think simply representatives of the ruling coalition, first of all of the DS, should openly say who is behind this proposal of the Vojvodina Statute. Some of your analysts have said openly on television that this is an EU requirement, that Serbia cannot enter the EU unless it accepts the Vojvodina statute. However, the fact is that Germany is behind this requirement. How's Germany? As you know, one of the organizations that has been working, which was created in fact in the Republic of Germany, the Federal Union of European Ethnic Groups, has been promoting separatist aspirations in Serbia for years, and above all in Vojvodina. They had a number of meetings in Vojvodina with representatives of ruling parties, primarily DS, but also with representatives of national communities. What is the problem with the Federal Union of European Ethnic Groups? The problem is that, according to French experts, but also some German experts, among other things, General Pierre Marie Gallo, they are implementing the old politics of Adolf Hitler based on so-called "Adolph Hitler". "Folks Grouped." Moreover, in their magazine that promotes the Separatism of Vojvodina, they praise some of the most famous anti-Semites and Nazis from World War II. More than that, the Federal Union of European Ethnic Groups was founded by Hitler's Nazis who worked in Czechoslovakia to domestically, as they said, the national minorities and the breaking of the state. These evidence and documents were presented in the collection of documents "From War to War", the preface for the book in "Jasen" was made by the famous French General Pierre Marie Gallo, who, among other things, in his book "The People Who Always Said No" announced 10 years ago that the issue of the independence of Vojvodina would be raised. Here's your realisation. Here's your German policy. Pay attention to what they're doing in Czech Republic, which is why Vaclav Klaus wouldn't sign the Lisbon Treaty? Exactly for the rights of the German national community.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32461	Time. Thank you. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica submitted to the 86th amendment. The word is Mr. Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32462	You see, this article in 86 speaks of what happens when the AP Duke's units are entrusted with local self-government with certain matters of their jurisdiction, and it is said that the authorities of the AP Vojvodina are also conducting surveillance. All that sounds logical, as well as in the previous article 85, which I basically agree with. Of course, supervision of the entrusted affairs of the Republic of Vojvodina will be carried out by the republican authorities, but given that you have created one impression that you have prevailed in this superlative law at the level of symbolism of expression, especially for dozens, obviously and proven against constitutional members, which is that it is a kind of serious psychological preparation for future separatism in Vojvodina. To the joy of those who now wish and in this sense are committed, and then it is simply not possible in terms of grammatical consistency in the text to leave the variant here – that the AP Vojvodina, who entrusted the units of local self-government with certain tasks in its jurisdiction, will be supervised, but should be added that the AP Vojvodina when entrusted the units of local self-government with certain tasks from its original jurisdiction. Someone might say it's pleonasm, but read the rest of the text of this law, so you'll see that here in fear they should be big eyes, wide open, and take care of every word and expression used here, because I'm afraid that what's ambiguous, let alone what's unequivocal, unconstitutional, can and will certainly be misused from your side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32463	Member of the 87th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32464	The SRS has expressed its position on this bill through the amendments submitted and by proposing that each member of this law be deleted individually, because we are convinced that this law has no constitutional basis and that this is a very dangerous separatist act that will have drastic consequences. What's been happening since we've been discussing the bill is the graphite that appears in cities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. One of these graphites is: “Vojvodina Vojvodjani”, the other “Neither grains to the occupier” and the like. So those who are for, who see much more than what you are trying to present here and who are ready for separatist moves, but also how they work on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. After all, we should remind ourselves when you adopted the first version of the statutes in the AP Vojvodina Assembly a year ago and Bojan Pajtic visited on a new Sad television and said hello to "Good Morning, Free Vojvodina". From whom did the Vojvodina become free to adopt this statute? It is only a contribution to what we Serbian radicals have been trying to draw attention here for several days, above all to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, that the regime of Boris Tadic is creating these conditions for the clumping of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32465	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade. The word has a folk emissary of the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32466	Article 88. The proposal for this law is the best evidence that this law is only a formality, which means nothing to anyone in terms of what you have already prepared for the application of this law, which is truly amazing, because this member says that the competent republican authorities are obliged to take all necessary measures, including the security of the necessary financial resources, to take the new powers of the AP Vojvodina, as set out in this law, no later than the start of the application of this law. Any lawyer or freshman in law school would be crossed to this conclusion. You've already predicted that certain actions are done in accordance with this law, and yet, this law is only in the proposal and not adopted. In the principle debate, we draw your attention that this law is, of course, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. No constitutional basis, contrary to Article 183. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. He is actually a new constitution of the AP Vojvodina. That's what's very dangerous in this law. This law provides for the setting up of certain areas of certain new laws, just like that, almost every member of the bill stands, and this law, when you are already filling the hall, is probably adopted today, along with the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, is a legal framework for the creation of a state in the country. I repeat, what we have been talking about for two to three days, based on this law, respected citizens, AP Vojvodina, you will be a state in the country, by adopting this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32467	On Article 89 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32468	This is the last amendment that SRS MPs can speak of, and this article 89 refers to some decision on the 2009 budget. Imagine, you are talking about a decision on the 2009 budget, when it has already been more than a month since the government of the Republic of Serbia's obligation to submit to this parliament to consider the 2010 budget. In this explanation of this last amendment, we want to draw attention to you who want to vote for this law, to vote for something that has no basis for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, this bill is in absolute contrast with Article 137. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which has been in place in Serbia since 1990, since the constitution, and what is provided for by this law, is not about trusted business, but about determining jurisdiction. To establish the full new powers of the AP Vojvodina, responsibilities that do not provide for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. All of you who will vote in favour of this bill and the statutes of the AP Vojvodina should be aware of the fact that you are doing something contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that you are doing something contrary to the interests of the Serbian and Serbian citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, that you are doing something that can lead to the achievement of separatist aspirations on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, which unfortunately, many people today are not hiding, nor are those who sit with you today, who will support this separatist idea of Boris Tadic's regime, openly saying that here is the work...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32469	Two minutes. Thank you. Members of the 90th Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 91 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 19 MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica – submitted to the 91st amendment. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32470	This is the 91st final member of the law, a transitional provision, i.e. a final provision that speaks of the entry into force of the law and since its application. You are saying that it is applicable from 1 January 2010, with the exception of provisions 8, Article 10 point 14, 26, 88) and 89) which apply from the date of entry into force of this law. In addition to several provisions to be applied as early as tomorrow, when Boris Tadic declares the law, the rest of the text will be applied – as of January 1st 2010. How is that possible? Where did you get the idea that this law could be applied from 1 January 2010? No elemental, material prerequisites have been created for that. By passing this law, none of these provisions can be applied. Because there are two other laws missing, which will also make you anti-constitutional and upside down, like this one. When these laws come into force and when their provisions allow for any of this to be applied, then we can talk about it, so I also envisioned an amendment that says – that the law will certainly begin to apply from the last day when the law enters into force and the last law of the law which determines these powers, as well as the financing of property. The problem is, he won't be able to apply it then either. You came up with those mixed commissions and wonders in the law, just because you knew that none of these things you imagined here, or at least the vast majority, are easy to apply, without a major political compromise and tension between the state and something that should be a state in the country. That's your main purpose. It is your main message to send these citizens, but I hope the citizens will be aware enough, that in the next next election, they will change this power and establish that state of affairs in Serbia, which is called respect for the Constitution and economic, social prosperity.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32471	Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, set Monday, 30 November 2009, starting at 13.40 p.m. as a day for voting on the agenda points of the 4th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. I also inform you that the session, which the National Assembly President, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for as the 5th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009 for Monday, 30 November 2009, will begin not at 14.00 hours, as you were informed in session, but immediately after the vote ended, and at all points of the agenda just finished the session. It means a bill of law and a motion for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32472	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that the session that was scheduled to begin at 1400 hours is delayed and will begin after the vote is completed. Before we move to decision-making on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the session, so please insert the cards into the parliamentary units to determine the quorum. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 134 MPs present in the hall, i.e. more than 126, and there are conditions for deciding. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Resistance of the AUTONOMAL COUNTRY OF THE VOJVODINE After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, before we move to decision-making, I remind you that Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides that the National Assembly shall, for the majority of the votes of all MPs, adopt a law which the Republic of Serbia entrusts to autonomous provinces, some of the issues of its jurisdiction. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the bill laying down the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, in principle. For 138, of 215. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. The amendments were drawn by the MPs: Aleksandra Janković for adding new members 5a, bg, 5d and 5d, together Aleksandra Janković and Zlata Đerić for adding new members 5b and 5v, together Zlata Đerić, Srdjan Spasojević, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Janković to Article 8, a group of 21 MPs of the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia's amendment on 20 November and members 16, 17, 35 and 64 of 23 November 2009, together Velimir Ilic, Miroslav Markicevic, Zlata Đerić, Srđan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Janković on Article 5, together Velimir Ilic, Radoslav Mojsilić, Srđan Spasović and Milutin Jelić on the title of Article 48th and the title of the title "Smajlić" (Smajić) and the title of the title "Smajrić" (Smajić). On the basis of Article 148(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected as incomplete amendments to the People's MPs: Aleksandr Martinović, by the name of the Bill Proposal, the title of Head I above Article 1 and Article 1, jointly Velimir Ilic, Miroslav Markicevic, Milutin Jelic and Radoslav Mojsilovic, to the members of the 3rd and 21st Parliament of the Group of MPs, to Serbia on the basis of Article 148(3). The Rules of Procedures of these amendments are not the subject of discussion and will not be voted on. An integral part of the bill's proposal has become an amendment, with a correction, to Article 2 which has been submitted by a group of 12 MPs of the LDP parliamentary group. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Of the 205 MPs, 47 is in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 205 MPs, 65 voted in favour. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Excuse me, another amendment to article 1 has been tabled by a group of 18 MPs from DSS-Vojislav Kostunica. Of the 204 MPs, 65 were declared. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 204 MPs, 66 were declared. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 203 MPs, 52 were declared. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the 2nd amendment, in the same text, they submitted together: Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic and a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 202 MPs, two were declared. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic together submitted an amendment proposing that Article 2a be added after Article 2a. Of the 200 MPs, 45 voted in favour of this amendment. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On the title above Articles 3 and 3 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Of the 201 MPs, 64 voted in favour of this amendment. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. To the title above Articles 3 and 3 of the amendment was submitted by the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group. Of the 201 MPs, 64 voted in favour of this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 201 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 201 MPs, 47 voted in favour of this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Of the 198 MPs, 65 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 198 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 198 MPs, one voted for. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica MPs proposed to amend Article 4. Of the 197 MPs, 62 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was tabled by a parliamentary group of 19 members of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica and the People's MP Vjerica Radet. Of the 197 MPs, 64 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 198 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Aleksandra Jankovic tabled an amendment proposing that new members from 5a to 5dd be added after Article 5. Of the 198 MPs, one voted for. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 6, the amendments in the same text, they submitted: a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group, Serbia and the People's MP Verica Radet. Of the 197 MPs, 65 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 6th amendment. Of the 198 MPs, 65 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of the 198 MPs, 64 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 198 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia Group and a group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group. Of the 198 MPs, 18 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Of the 198 MPs, 63 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic together submitted the 8th amendment. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: Give us time on the 15-second screen, as far as we have the right to vote. ) Please, this is Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic, who is following and who can truly gain absolute insight into everything. (Dragan Todorovic, from the site: Give us on screen, as it was before. Don't interfere with the vote, please. Of the 198 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Of the 198 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Zeljko Tomic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 198 MPs, 66 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On behalf of Chapter II above Article 9 and Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 198 MPs, 63 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted the title above Articles 9 and 9 of the amendment. Of the 198 MPs, 65 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 198 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 10 and article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 198 MPs, 66 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 10th amendment. Of the 198 MPs, 62 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 198 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 198 MPs, 63 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 198 MPs, 66 are in favour. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by Velimir Ilic, Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Milutin Jelic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 198 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica and MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted the 12th amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 198 MPs, 64 are in favour. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Milorad Krstin. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 198 MPs, 64 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 198 MPs, 66 are in favour. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 198 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 14th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 19 MPs of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group and MP Milorad Krstin. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 197 MPs, 65 are in favour. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the title above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 197 MPs, 62 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted the title above Article 15 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 197 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 196 MPs, 62 are in favour. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 196 MPs, 62 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 196 MPs, 63 are in favour. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 16th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 196 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 196 MPs, 65 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 196 MPs, 62 are in favour. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above article 18 and article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 196 MPs, 58 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 200 MPs, 64 is in favour. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. (Dragan Todorovic, from the site: Please read the results from the screen, one is restrained. Mr. Todorovic, don't interfere with my work. The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 200 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 200 MPs, 68 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 20th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 200 MPs, 67 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 199 MPs, 66 are in favour. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 200 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 21st Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 201 MPs, 62 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 22nd Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 201 MPs, 65 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 201 MPs, 68 are in favour. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 201 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Of the 201 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 23 and Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Of the 202 MPs, for 68. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs of the "Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica" group submitted to the 23rd amendment. Of the 202 MPs, for 68. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. Of the 202 MPs, for 69. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. Of the 202 MPs, for 70. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs of the "Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica" group submitted to the 25th amendment. Of the 202 MPs, for 70. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 26 and article 26 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. Of the 202 MPs, for 69. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the "Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica" group and a group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the title above Articles 27 and 27 of the amendment. Of the 202 MPs, for 68. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 28th amendment. Of the 202 MPs, for 67. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs of the "Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica" group submitted to the 28th amendment. Of the 202 MPs, for 69. The amendment was not accepted. To the title above Article 29 and Article 29 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Of the 201 MPs, for 68. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs of the "Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica" group submitted to the 29th amendment. Of the 201 MPs, for 62. The amendment was not accepted. To the title above Article 30th and Article 30th of the amendment was filed by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Of the 201 MPs, for 62. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs of the "Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica" group submitted to the 30th amendment. Of the 201 MPs, for 62. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the "Democratic Party of Serbia-Vojislav Kostunica" and Milorad Buha's MP submitted to the 31st amendment, in the same text. Of 200 MPs, 64. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 32 and 32 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Of the 198 MPs, for 56. The amendment was not accepted. On the title and subtitle above Articles 33 and 33, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 198 MPs, for 59. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs of the "Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica" group submitted to the 33rd amendment. Of the 198 MPs, for 59. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. Of 195 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 33rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 194 MPs, for 54. The amendment was not accepted. The subtitle above article 34 and article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 195 MPs, for 60. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs of the "Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica" group submitted to the 34th amendment. Of 194 MPs, for 59. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 34th amendment. Of 191 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 189 MPs, for 51. The amendment was not accepted. The subtitle above the 35th and the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 189 MPs, for 54. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs of the "Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica" group submitted to the 35th amendment. Of 189 MPs, for 54. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 35th amendment. Of the 189 MPs present, none for. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the subheading above Articles 36 and 36, MP Aleksandar Martinovic submitted the amendment. Of the 189 MPs, 57 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 19 MPs of the "DSS-Vojislav Kostunica" group submitted to the 36th amendment. Of the 189 MPs present, 55 is for. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the subheading above Articles 37 and 37, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 187 MPs, 54 voted in favour of this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 19 MPs of the "DSS-Vojislav Kostunica" group submitted the amendment to Article 37. Of the 187 MPs present, 54 is for this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The title above Articles 38 and 38 of the same text was filed by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group and MP Marina Toman. Of the 187 MPs, 56 voted in favour of this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The title above Articles 39 and 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Of the 187 MPs, 54 voted in favour of this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 39th amendment. Of the 186 MPs present, 54 is for this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 39th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs to the "Forward Serbia" group of 185 MPs, one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of the 185 MPs, 54 Members of Parliament have voted in favour of this amendment, the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 40th amendment. Of the 184 MPs present, 49 is for this amendment. I find that the amendment was not accepted to the title above article 41 and Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Out of 183 MPs, 52 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 41st amendment. Of the 184 MPs present, 50 is for this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 41st amendment. Out of 184 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the subheading above Articles 42 and 42, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of the 184 MPs present, 52 voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted the 42nd amendment. Of the 183 MPs present, 47 is for this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The subtitle above Articles 43 and 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of the 183 MPs present, he voted 51 in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica submitted to the 43rd amendment. Of 183 MPs, 51 MPs voted in favour of this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The subtitle above the 44th and the 44th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of the 183 MPs present, 50 voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 44th amendment. Of the 182 MPs, 49 is for this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The subtitle above the 45th and the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of the 182 MPs present, 50 voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 45th amendment. Of the 182 MPs, 52 voted in favour of this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The subtitle above article 46 and article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of the 183 MPs, it voted 52 for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The title above Articles 47 and 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. Of the 182 MPs, it voted 50 in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 47th amendment. Of the 181 MPs, 50 voted in favour of this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 47th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Djura Muchenski. Of the 182 MPs, one voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 47th Amendment was submitted by MP Lodi Gabor. Out of 182 MPs, 9 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. An MP, Dragomir Cimesh, submitted to the 47th amendment. Of the 183 MPs, no one voted for this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 47th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nandor Maraci. Of the 184 MPs, 6. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Radoslav Mojsilovic and Milutin Jelic together submitted to the 47th amendment. Of 183 MPs, 47 were declared. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 48th and the 48th amendments to the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Radoslav Mojsilović, Milutin Jelic and Zlata Djeric, a group of 19 MPs of DSS Vojislav Kostunica and MP Paja Momcilov. Of the 183 MPs, 46 voted. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 49 and 49 of the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Radoslav Mojsilović, Milutin Jelačić, a group of 19 MPs of DSS Vojislav Kostunica and MP Paja Momcilov. Of the 182 MPs, 48 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The subtitle above the 50th and the 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. Of the 181 MPs, 45 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The subtitle above article 51 and article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. Please be quiet, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Of the 181 MPs, 41 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 DSS MPs, Vojislav Kostunica, submitted to the 51st amendment. (Dragan Todorovic: It is an irregular vote! ) Please don't interrupt the vote, it's regular and there are enough MPs. Of the 181 MPs, 31 voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 52nd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica and MP Paja Momcilov. Of the 182 MPs, 50 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Under the title above the 53rd and the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 182 MPs, 50 were declared. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 53rd amendment. Of the 182 MPs, 50 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 54th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 183 MPs, 52 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 54th amendment. Of the 182 MPs, 52 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The subtitle above the 55th and the 55th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 182 MPs, 51 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 55th amendment. Of the 182 MPs, 50 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Members 56th and Article 56th Amendment were submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 182 MPs, 52 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 56th amendment. Of the 182 MPs, 50 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 57th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 182 MPs, 52 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The subtitle above the 58th and the 58th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 183 MPs, 49 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The subtitle above article 59 and article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 183 MPs, 50 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 59th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. Of the 181 MPs, three voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 59th amendment. Of the 183 MPs, 50 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The subtitle above the 60th and the 60th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 184 MPs, 51 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The subtitle above the 61st and the 61st amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 185 MPs, 53 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On the subtitle above the 62nd and the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 185 MPs, 51 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 62nd amendment. Of the 185 MPs, 54 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 62nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of 185 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 63, the amendment in the same text, was submitted by a group of 19 MPs of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica and MP Dusan Maric. Of the 185 MPs, 53 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 64 and article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Of the 184 MPs, 53 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica submitted to the 64th amendment. Of the 184 MPs, 53 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On the 64th amendment in the same text, a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group and together MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Radoslav Mojsilovic submitted. Of the 184 MPs, 17. The amendment was not accepted. On the title and subtitle above the 65th and the 65th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 183 MPs, 52 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic submitted the amendment, with an amendment, which he proposed to amend the name Section 17 and add a new member of 65a after article 65a. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Constitutional Affairs Committee has accepted it, as you know. Of 183 MPs, 117 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 184 MPs, 52 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 67 and 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of the 184 MPs, 50 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 members of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted the title above the 67th and 67th amendment. Of the 184 MPs, 52 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On the title and title above the 68th and the 68th Amendment, MP Vladan Jeremic submitted. Of the 185 MPs, 52 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 69th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of the 184 MPs, 50 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On the subheading above Articles 70 and 70 of the amendment was filed by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of the 185 MPs, 51 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The subtitle above article 71 and article 71 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of the 187 MPs, 51 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 71st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of 187 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the subheading above Articles 72 and 72 of the amendment, MP Vladan Jeremic tabled. Of the 187 MPs, 47 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the title above Articles 73 and 73 of the amendment. Of the 188 MPs, 48 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Prescrib Group submitted to the amendment of the 73rd. Of the 188 MPs, this amendment was voted on by 6. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the amendment. Of the 190 MPs, 49 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 74 and article 74 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of the 191 MPs, 47 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 74th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 192 MPs, one voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the "DSS – Vojislav Kostunica" group submitted to the 74th amendment. Of the 192 MPs, 52 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 75th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia Group, a group of 19 MPs from the DSS- Vojislav Kostunica and MP Petar Jojic. Of the 193 MPs, 53 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. To the title above Articles 76 and 76 of the amendment in the same text, MP Petar Jojic and a group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica submitted. Of the 193 MPs, 54 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to the 76th amendment. Of the 193 MPs, 51 MPs voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 76th Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of the 193 MPs, 48 MPs voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica and MP Zoran Krasic – submitted the title above the 77th and the 77th amendment, in the same text. Of the 193 MPs, 52 came out. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica and MP Zoran Krasic – submitted the title above the 78th and the 78th amendment, in the same text. Of the 193 MPs, 55 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica and MP Zoran Krasic – submitted the title above Articles 79 and 79 of the amendment. Of the 193 MPs, 53 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On the subheading above Articles 80 and 80, MP Zoran Krasic submitted the amendment. Of the 193 MPs, 54 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica – submitted to the 80th amendment. Of the 193 MPs, 55 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 80th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 193 MPs, three were declared. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 81 and 81 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 19 MPs of the DSS Group – Vojislav Kostunica and MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 193 MPs, 56 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The subtitle above the 82nd and the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 193 MPs, 56 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On the subheading above Article 83 and Article 83, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 193 MPs, 54 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica and MP Dejan Mirovic – submitted a title above members of 84th and a member of the 84th amendment, in the same text. Of the 166 MPs, 20 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On behalf of Glava III above the 85th and Article 85th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 161 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 86th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 160 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica submitted to the 86th amendment. Of the 160 MPs, 23 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. At the title of Chapter IV above Articles 87 and 87 of the amendment, the People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted. Of the 160 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 88th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. Of the 160 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 89th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Verse of Radet. Of the 160 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 90th Amendment. Of the 160 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 91st Amendment. Of the 160 MPs, one voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica submitted to the 91st amendment. Of the 160 MPs, this amendment was voted in 19. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law laying down the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, in general. Of the 163 MPs, 138 voted in favour, so I find that the National Assembly passed a bill establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON DANIJA PRE-FERENCE ON THE PROPOSAL OF THE AP VOVODINE Since the National Assembly carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, before we move to a decision, I would like to remind you of the application of Article 105 paragraph 2. 5. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which gives prior consent to the AP Statute, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to give prior consent to the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. Of the 163 MPs, 137 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give prior consent to the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, to which the MPs pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Articles 106 and 10. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, the National Assembly will, without a search, declare itself in the day of the vote, which we now need to do. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, at a session on 24 November 2009, at 11 o'clock and 50 minutes, pointed to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. I ask the National Assembly to decide if the said member has been injured. Of the 131 MPs, no one has pleaded for it. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Slobodan Maras, at a session on 25 November 2009, at 16 hours and 35 minutes, pointed to the violation of Ruler 104. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether or not the said member has been injured. Of the 138 MPs, 8. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Dragan Todorovic, at a session on 30 November 2009, at 10 o'clock and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether or not the said member has been injured. Of the 135 present, no one has pleaded for it. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Dragan Todorovic, at a session on 30 November 2009, at 10 o'clock and 17 minutes, pointed to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which refers to the establishment of delegations of the National Assembly to conduct talks with representatives of representative bodies of other countries and participation in the work of individual international organisations and missions. Of the 134 MPs, as many as we are, no one has pleaded. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all the points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I conclude the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. I'm taking a five-minute break. (The session is closed at 15 o'clock and 15 minutes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32473	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA The National Assembly of the Stenografical Note 5th session of the Second Regular Session on 30 November 2009 (The session began at 15.15 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32474	Please, we're waiting for representatives of the promoters, who are 50 meters from here, just to arrive. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 134 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are 134 MPs in the hall, so there are conditions for us to work. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of MP Milica Radovic. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I called for the meeting to be attended by representatives of the proposings: Snezana Malovic, Justice Minister Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government and Đurđina Bjelobab, member of the High Council of the Judiciary. In accordance with Article 84(2) and Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session exclusively for Monday, as well as within a shorter period than set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, due to the need for the National Assembly, to respect the reasons for the urgent procedure, as soon as possible, to consider the proposals for acts in the proposed agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. National MP Nada Kolundžija proposed that, by emergency procedure, the list of candidates for the selection of three members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, submitted to the National Assembly by the Committee on Culture and Information on 18 November 2009. Of the 135, as many as we are, no one has pleaded for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The High Council of the Judiciary proposed that the draft decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, which submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2009, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 137 MPs, 129 voted for this proposal. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 November 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 137 MPs, three voted in favour. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft decision on the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 27 November 2009, should be put on the agenda. Of the 136 MPs, 128 voted in favour of this proposal. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft decision on the election of prosecutors and prosecutors of special jurisdiction is put on the agenda and was submitted on 27 November 2009. Of the 136 MPs, 127 voted for this proposal. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft decision on the election of public prosecutors for the public prosecutor's office, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 November 2009. Of the 135 MPs, 127 voted for this proposal. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft decision on the election of public prosecutors in the senior public prosecutor's office be put on the agenda. Of the 135 MPs, 127 voted for this proposal. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on election of public prosecutors in the main public prosecutor's office, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 November 2009. Of the 135 MPs, 127 voted for this proposal. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, pursuant to Article 90 paragraph 3 and Article 142(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that a joint single investigation be carried out on the motion for a decision to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, a proposal for a decision to elect the Republic Public Prosecutor, a draft decision to elect prosecutors in the Prosecutor's Office, a proposal for a decision to elect public prosecutors in the general public prosecutor's office, a proposal for a decision to elect public prosecutors in the general public prosecutor's office. Does MP Vlatko Ratkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Of the 135 MPs, 126 voted for this proposal. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. We move to the agenda of the session in general. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Of the 135 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 5th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009 as a whole. Dn e v n ir e d: 1. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, 2, Proposal for a decision on the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor, 3. Proposal for a decision to elect prosecutors in the D.A.'s special jurisdiction, 4. Proposal for a decision on the election of public prosecutors for the Public Prosecutor's Office, 5. Proposal for a decision on the election of public prosecutors in the senior public prosecutor's office, 6. Proposal for a decision on the election of public prosecutors in the main public prosecutor's office. Work on the agenda. We move to the 1-6th item of the agenda: – SUPPLICATION OF THE DECLARATION OF THE PRESIDENTS TO THE COURT OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT AND OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT (Courcesss) We move to a joint joint joint investigation on the proposal for a decision to electing the President of the Supreme Court of Justice, the Supreme Court of Justice, a decision on the selection of the Republic of Public Prosecutors, a decision to elect the Prosecutors of the Prosecutors of the Prosecutors of the Prosecutors of the Prosecutors of the Prosecutors of the Prosecutors in the Prosecutors of the Prosecutors of the Prosecutors. In agreement with the decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on proposals for acts under items 1 to 6 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I would remind you that under Article 163(3) and Article 94 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: Parliament group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS MP group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - 25 minutes 12 seconds; Parliament group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group SPS - JS - 18 minutes; Parliament group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Mission group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them at these points: Srdjan Spasojevic - the MP group Nova Serbia, Miroslav Petkovic - the DSS and Bosko Ristic - the ZES parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 142(2) and Article 163(2) and (3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single investigation into: the motion for a decision to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the Proposal for a decision to elect the Republic Public Prosecutor, the Proposal for a decision to elect prosecutors in the prosecutor's office, the Proposal for a decision to elect public prosecutors in the public prosecutor's office, the Proposal for a decision to elect public prosecutors in the general public prosecutor's office. I'd like to inform you that, in accordance with article 85 today, we'll be working after 1800 hours. I'd like to set a 60-minute break now. We'll continue at 4:30. [[After break – 16.35.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. Do the representatives of the motionor, Mrs. Djurdjina Bjelobaba, member of the High Council of the judiciary or Minister Markovic want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Belobaba, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32476	Dear President-in-Office, honourable presidents, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as the author of the proposal to elect Judge Nata Mesarovic as Supreme Court President of the Supreme Court, since I was the chairman of the Supreme Judiciary Council and that as a member of the Supreme Council, I was involved in making such a decision, to give a brief explanation of why we are asking the President of the Supreme Court to be elected by Parliament. It is common knowledge in the public that judicial reform is being carried out. All judges must be re-elected according to the Law on Judges by 1 December 2009. The Presidents, i.e. V.D., should then be appointed. Presidents of all courts in Serbia. The President of the Supreme Cassation Court should be elected because it is he who is responsible for the efficiency and legality of the work in the court, and it is necessary for all of this to be established that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court also has legitimacy. The personal and working biography of the proposed High Council candidate justifies this decision. I can't help but inform all of you here in the courtroom, and then the general public that Mrs. Nata Mesarovic is, with her personal and working biography, a real candidate who deserves to be at the top of the judiciary pyramid. Namely, she was born in 1950. She graduated Law School in 1974. She was a judicial intern, a post-judicial assistant at the Trade Court. Afterwards, she was the city's judge for violations, and when she passed a judicial exam in 1979, she was elected Judge of the Fourth Municipal Court. After that, the assembly was appointed as the District Court judge in Belgrade and has been working all the time in criminal refectory cases. In April 2003, the candidate was elected Judge of the Supreme Court. As such, she worked and was delegated to the Special Department of the Special Court and worked the most difficult cases in the field of organised crime. She's been assigned to the War Crimes Department. I can rightly say that the first such case has ruled. The public knows what cases she participated in in the trial, as one such decision was confirmed recently and in the third degree. She was not only president of the Council in such and similar cases, but was also a member of the Council in cases with an element of organised crime. In addition, the candidate participated in professional education for judges, participated in the adoption of many legal texts in the area of justice. It also contributed to the co-operation of members of the High Council of the region's judiciary. She was elected V.D. in March 2009. The President of the Supreme Court and, as such, has shown the exceptional ability to manage and communicate. As a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, on behalf of the High Council of the Judiciary, I can really tell you that we are convinced that in the personality of Nate Mesarovic, the judges, all the characteristics are present that the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation should have. In the first place is expertise, second place is dignity, then morality, then the ability to manage, the ability to communicate, as well as everything else. Just taking into account all of this and the fact that she is guaranteed to enforce the truth and enforce the law, we are rightly proposing this candidate to be president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and we believe that he is the right man to stand at the very top of the pyramid of the judiciary. Thank you. I introduced the candidate. If there is any debate, and if there is any need after that, I will address you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32477	I thank Mrs. Giurjini Belobaba, a member of the High Council of the Judiciary. I give my word to Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32478	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you know, on the basis of Article 158. The Constitution, the Republic Public Prosecutor on a proposal from the Government, and in the opinion of the National Assembly's competent committee, is elected by the National Assembly. Also, the public prosecutor is also elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the government. However, the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office authority of the State Council of Prosecutors and the Government's powers are, in a manner, conditionalally corrected, by providing for proposals for both the Republic Public Prosecutor and the Public Prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia to give State Greater Prosecutors. Of course, the Constitution itself is not and cannot be the subject of our comment here, but it is undeniable that this is exactly the kind of proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly, which adopted such a Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, gave priority to the prosecutor's profession and our judiciary over the possibilities of the Government to arbitration in such important matters. Therefore, on the basis of Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the State's Chief Prosecutors called a competition and then made the choice of candidates and sent a proposal to the government, namely a candidate for the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor, for the election of prosecutors in the prosecutor's office, for the election of public prosecutors in the public prosecutor's office, for the election of public prosecutors in the chief public prosecutor's office and for the election of public prosecutors in the main public prosecutor's office. Given the government's commitment, which was expressed through the Public Prosecutor's Law, the government did not take into consideration the proposal for individual solutions made by the State's larger prosecutors. I'd like to remind you that in the State Council of Prosecutors seven out of ten elected members, the eleventh is not elected from the law office, they're the prosecutors, they're mostly deputy public prosecutors. So, the public prosecutor's profession has made its proposal to the Government, and by respecting this profession, these people, who are doing this extremely responsible job, have decided not to consider the particulars of this proposal, but to fully respect this proposal, without any changes, for you, MPs, to decide on this proposal. I think the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office has set a new standard in relation to the executive authority and the judiciary. Of course, the system-specific position of the public prosecutor's office is undeniable to the judges, but this shows great trust in the public prosecutor's profession itself, I hope that this trust will also follow the proper responsibility of those to whom this trust is indicated. I say again, the government has shown a high degree of responsibility, with the ability to change those decisions, in any way affecting those decisions, but simply what the profession has identified as its proposal has passed on to the MPs, that the MPs give the final word on the selection of the proposed candidates. So, as a representative of the government, I will not, of course, enter individual solutions and comment, I am here first of all to explain this procedure and to once again underline this general political position of the Government, which is to make the profession decide on the profession. I hope, first and foremost, that you will bear in mind this, therefore, that this is a proposal from the State Council of Prosecutors, in which most prosecutors make it, that this is not an essential proposal from the Government and that you will have a debate accordingly. Sure, I'll be there for that debate, in case I need to make any further clarifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32479	I thank Mr. Markovic. Does the Justice Committee's rapporteur, MP Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Justice Committee, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32480	I would like to say that, upon the receipt of the proposal by the High Council of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it has been appointed by the Committee on Justice and Administration and that none of the members of the Committee has disputed any name contained in the proposal, so that the Committee has given a unanimous opinion that the Assembly should elect the proposed candidate Nata Mesarovic as president of the Supreme Cassation Court of Serbia and the proposed candidates for the Republic Public Prosecutors, more prosecutors and fundamental prosecutors in Serbia. I would like to say that the general need to be respected throughout the law and the Constitution, which states that within a certain time, we get the perpetrators of these very important judicial functions, and almost there is an undivided opinion and the position of all key social actors that this reform is in the interests of Serbian citizens who need the rule of law, equal access to institutions and equal positions of citizens before the Constitution and the law, which can only provide them with justice that will build capacity and exercise all these powers through decent, qualified, fair and efficient public functions holders.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32481	I thank the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, Mr. Bosko Ristic. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Let me just inform you that in the debate under points 1-6 of today's agenda, MP Zoran Krasic, in accordance with Article 37(3), will be represented by the president, or the representative of the parliamentary groups? We're going from smaller to bigger. Mr. Momo Colakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32482	Respected presidents, the working presidency, respected ministers, respected representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the PUPS parliamentary group estimates that the approach to the highest judicial functions is good and that this is the first time for new legal solutions in the area of the judiciary and the judiciary. That is why we think it would be very good if the profession continues mainly to decide on the choice of functions in the judiciary and we welcome it. We particularly welcome Mr. Minister's statement that in this case, the independence of the judicial authorities, especially the High Council of the judiciary, has been respected. In that regard, and individually, the suggestions that are here today before us we support. We think that this is a good way to finally make this part of the government and part of the state's body independent and independent and in this regard to its function independent of political structures, political parties from the executive and legislative authorities. We support all proposals individually and in this respect I declare on behalf of the PUPS parliamentary group that we will support all proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32483	Does a representative of the Minority Group want a word? No, I don't. New Serbia's MP group? Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32484	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representative of the High Council of the judiciary, the respected citizens of Serbia, are ahead of us something that Serbian citizens and all judicial officials expect for a long time. During the year, we had so many laws when it comes to the judicial system to believe that I am absolutely sure that in the sea of these laws, Serbia's citizens will first of all find it extremely difficult to cope. I believe that we are entering extremely delicate reforms, reforms that will certainly cause chaos in the judiciary. I think it should have waited for a better time to pass this many laws, because I am sure that no country in Europe has passed this many laws in such a short time, which will certainly have a very slow work in the judiciary, but it is on the ground. Exceptionally, cases, judges and prosecutors are on high expectations, all suffering from Serbian citizens, who cannot exercise their rights when they address the judicial authorities. Today we have before us the choice of President of the Supreme Cassation Court, a proposal for a decision on the election of a Republic public prosecutor, a proposal for a decision on the selection of prosecutors and prosecutors of special jurisdiction and elections practically for prosecutors in senior and primary prosecutors. The basic problem, Mr. Minister, that in your opening statement and as the chairman of the Justice Committee has said, which is practically one of the key figures in both the Visko Council and here in parliament, when the choice of holders of judicial functions is at stake, is that none of you mentioned that the functional organisation of the prosecution, after what you are sure to vote on, is not the personal solution you are proposing here. We had a situation that practically 24 hours ago in public information we learned that this was in front of us and, practically, personal solutions, in such a short time, it's uninvited to speak, because it's simply not collegiate to evaluate someone in personal solutions. What's the problem? Where, all of a sudden, Mr. Minister, that prosecutors in their midst, who have worked for years, someone less, someone better, someone more, it's a matter of judging the court, all of a sudden, as a reward for all of this, are getting practically the redundancies as is happening in Serbia's military, that officers go from place to place. In central Serbia, from what we could find out, and I say that for a short time, in cities there will simply be no bearers of the prosecutor's office either in the basic or in the higher court of law of that place. Who made such a decision to apply it? (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Bosko Ristic. ) Who has expressed great suspicion to prosecutors from these places that they are in various lobbies. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Bosko Ristic. If he had already expressed that there was such a thing, then he should have replaced those people. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Boška Ristica. ) As many people from that place, prosecutors, see, they go to other places. That means, according to you, they did a good job. Where and where, when we talked about courts, do we have a paradoxical situation that will completely arbitraryly prevent the influence on prosecutors and other judicial holders in their place? Believe it and be absolutely sure you're going in the opposite direction. Surely, if someone is capable of having an impact on the holder of judicial functions, rather than taking care of his family, he has to take care of his neighbor, he has to take care of his friends and his reputation. We say it in such a way – let us go to a complete hopelessness, let the prosecutor from Smederev go to Negotin, prosecutors from the Kings to go to Kruševac, prosecutors from Topola and the Great Plane to Cačak. I can't accept something like that. It's completely groundless, unexpected to do something like that all of a sudden. You're going to bring in a lot of trouble. You're doing damage to these prosecutors, too. I'm sure none of them competed. I know the situation that people have competed in certain places and that they are completely second-placed. There's this will of some people and competition. How is it possible that in such a casual way you can determine where anyone will go? Believe me, it's not going to work out. I'm sure something like that, in such a quick way, won't bring any reform to the judiciary and there'll be a lot of problems without talking about the enormous costs you're going to make in this way. Imagine one of the prosecutors coming from Prokuplje to Kragujevac. Why didn't you do the same in Belgrade? Why didn't you bring the district attorney to Belgrade? Only Belgrade prosecutors remain in Belgrade. If you thought the stove would be stopped, then apply it to Belgrade as well. Don't just do it in central Serbia, like we're some Indians there, so you just have to go through all kinds of cities to satisfy someone's appetites. There is also a reasonable doubt that prosecutors will be dealt with in practice with inadequate politicians in this way. Because people who live in their town know exactly if some politician is from another party that he's an honest man. This way certain prosecutors will be given various orders. There is this reasonable doubt, because these solutions are unacceptable. Now it's quite clear, I'm sorry there's no one from the D.A.'s Council of Attorneys, that the lawyer from the C.A.'s office is not elected to the D.V.T. You've entered this election with an incomplete DVT. Surely one lawyer wouldn't support something like this at all. What's the choice of that future candidate now that you're done with the job? It's more relevant and no influence whatsoever. How could you, Madam of the Supreme Council, not complete the Supreme Council, why didn't you do it? Eminent professors of law school aren't elected here. It's not clear to me how you could have had a big organization, a bar, to bypass when it comes to DVT? That's where all sorts of solutions come from. You simply wanted to avoid anyone who would say no. It is a complete responsibility in Parliament, because the proposal has been and here specifically no one has had a single bad word for this candidate – suddenly a man has not passed the vote. There, in that are some practically complete doubts about all of this. To get back to the economics of the procedure you're going to be conducting. All of this will be paid by the citizens of Serbia. How many journals are there, how many costs are the various drivers who are going to drive the prosecutor from one city to another? Who's gonna pay for all that? That's why you raised these taxes to Serbian citizens two, three months ago here, or five, six months to 50%. Hence, all of this will essentially be paid by the citizens of Serbia. You underestimate all prosecutors in certain cities, because it is impossible for the cities of 100, 200,000 people, where there are 200, 300 judicial officials, not one man from that city to be appointed a state prosecutor in that city – I think it is unrecorded. All this reminds me of those cowboy movies, you know, in Texas when the sheriff goes from one city to another town and comes in there to solve a situation. This is sometimes according to a large number of prosecutors who have been savingly doing their jobs for many years. You can't just assume that some lobbies inside a city are going to pass in this way. You should have another situation in mind – in 2011 prosecutors will lead the investigation. Just suppose something, if the prosecutor is in Prokuplje, and something urgent happens in Kragujevac, or if the prosecutor is in the King, and something happens in Kruševec – the prosecutor will be away in a 200km emergency. He needs to come. You know that deputies can't do anything until the D.A. says they can, go, don't chase, stop the prosecution. This is a very bad message. This is something that is absolutely unrecorded. I think you're going to make a real mess. We'll only have trips in Serbia. Citizens will travel 200km to the court to be able to exercise their right, and judges in appeals courts will travel 200km to the Court of Appeal, prosecutors see it in the same way or in an even more cruel way in all cities, practically holders of prosecutorial functions in central Serbia, because I did not have enough insight, because it simply did not travel in Belgrade. There will be something that is so expensive for the state, that I don't know how this law and this kind of solution is made at the moment when this global economic crisis that you are calling for every day, when we have thousands of layoffs in Serbia, when no one is working – now we are going to solve all the problems that we are going to send the prosecutor from the King to Kruševac or the one from Požega to Valjevo. You know what? If it's from this executive authority, even though you say it has no influence, I absolutely can't understand it. This is something I'm sure no prosecutor, that you're investigating, will support this. This is a complete imposition of a cruel desire to be pious, under the pretext of some major reforms, prosecutors send so far as to do their job. Do you know what kind of collegiate problems you're going to make when you bring some prosecutor into another city where experienced deputies are sitting, people who were expecting to become prosecutors? Do you know what kind of trouble that's gonna be? He'll run into obstructions. Do you know when a foreign prosecutor appears in one town, who doesn't even know about some perpetrators of crimes who these people are, what can be served to that prosecutor? You know that the prosecutor in his town knows exactly, when an event happens, practically in the head of a man who's doing something or not? I think this is such an exaggeration, that if there's a little bit of any sense in parliament, something like this, I don't involve personal solutions, it can't go away. MPs from their cities should make sure they vote for some prosecutor from another place in their town. You'll have to explain to your voters, after all, how could you. This isn't localism. This is about functional things and people, or who are these people who have made these criteria – that the virtual prosecutor's office in Serbia is totally spreading? This is a key topic. I think there's gonna be a lot of problems. I think there's going to be a lot more influence on people who are on the sidelines than they are prosecutors from their post. Right 30-40 years ago, this sort of thing happened in small communities when there were no personnel, in some underdeveloped environments, the prosecutors went, the judges went to help. Believe me, Madam of the High Council, I grew up in such an ambience, my father was the bearer of judicial functions, people from that court went to help, but this is not recorded. I arrived only yesterday with four or five people to talk to, all these people in the King, specifically, and there are some and on the sides I talked to, not satisfied with this solution and are completely shocked at this principle of determining the holders of judicial functions. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. You and the sports game when some teams from your place delegate a judge or delegate a delegate to cut costs from that place. You don't put someone on the side. You're going to have an entirely one traveling circus here. I hear these days that even in the ministries some are planning, of course, Mr. Minister, you immediately turned around, that from the ministry officials, civil servants in positions, even some should go to other cities organized by bus to work every day and return. I'll tell you, Mr. Minister, but it's all in the spirit of what I'm saying, you make, gentlemen, an expensive state. Who's gonna pay for this? They're gonna get tired of the day-to-day trips. It's still a big period, it goes there in winter and ice and fog, so there's going to be a hotel payment, so it's going to be renting apartments, so it's probably going to be getting apartments. In this situation now that we're all talking, like I said, about the global economic crisis, when there's no money anywhere, when there's a complete collapse, you bring something like this. Mr. Minister and you belong to my profession, and I'm sure you agree with this. I'm sorry Mrs. Malovic isn't here. I believed that something like this couldn't be within this range, I could imagine individual solutions that there really wasn't in some city of an adequate man so that some experienced prosecutor could be brought out of some nearby city, but that you people who proved themselves in your business in your town were rewarding the redundancies in another city, and you're bringing from another environment, from a completely different county to that city, I can't understand that. It is certain that no one who deals with any judicial work can be clear, and in particular it cannot be clear to Serbian citizens who will face major problems. You know that tomorrow when the prosecutor is in charge of an investigation or when the holder of a judicial post and receives some citizens there, one or two days, etc., that man will be more in that city, he will rule for sure and some unhappiness, but you believe that these are European principles. I'd like someone to tell us where this was prescribed to be so freakish and so dangerous? I hope that by the end of this debate, the opposition will be able to convince us that this is not good. Wait a minute, you've made a lot of money with all kinds of laws, so they can't send much bigger experts, and as for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32485	The word has Mr. Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32486	I really need to say a few words, because my esteemed colleague addressed his exposure to a practically good part of the government. So, first of all, no one here is beyond their will proposed for a public prosecutor. All these people are proposed as a public prosecutor based on their will, so no one here is punished in any way. Secondly, what actually offered me the most was to answer that question of economics. I must remind you that this ongoing reform, carried out by the Ministry of Justice and the Government, means, among other things, a significant cost rationalisation. The justice system itself leaves about 2,500 people. So the rationalisation of the network of courts itself will also lead to a reduction in the number of judicial holders. Therefore, although I do not think that when it comes to the judiciary is the primary interest in saving, much greater savings and benefits for the state of quality justice, but since you have already mentioned that it will be spent to get someone out of place, it is completely negligible given the overall scale of rationalisation that is being implemented in the area of justice reform. I can't be the attorney of the state's senior prosecutor, but my experiences are different from yours, since we're colleagues, you and I. The worst trials in which, as an intern, I later attended as a lawyer, were in small places, where the game of the case felt this familiarity, that localism that you mentioned earlier. So, if the State's Major Prosecutors felt that they should suggest prosecutors in this way, I believe that everything that you've been saying is well thought out, because in that State Council of Prosecutors, there are people who certainly have a lot of experience in this business and I believe they've just had it in mind and this is like some kind of prevention or just let some structures shake up a little bit. You know the overall assessment of our judiciary and the general attitude of our public towards our judiciary. In the end, you know, as I know, it's not the public prosecutor who's in charge of the case and running the case himself. In most cases, 99% of the cases are done by the deputy public prosecutor and the simple public prosecutor's office is set up differently than the court and it is generally different, it is an independent body and there is this subordination, etc. He is represented by a public prosecutor, etc. So I don't think there are any comments you've been making about how this isn't going to work. Why wouldn't it be functional? It's simple, you know what kind of duty they're on. In Belgrade, you see, a friend of mine was a deputy district attorney living on Ban's Hill. Believe me, when it's an emergency, he's having trouble with Ban's Hill getting to the police administration in Palillula, it takes him an hour, an hour and a half. I don't think those arguments just stand. Of course, then they predicted duty at the Court of Justice itself. I mean, in general, it's hard for me to justify myself in some way, the State's Major Prosecutors, but just because you addressed part of these remarks to me, I brought up some of my thinking about why I think what the State's Major Prosecutors did was right. I don't see who could do it better than them. I think if the government did this, then it would be, of course, why the government did it, it would be a political connotation. The Justice Committee is a participant in all this. As far as I know, and there's no question about how the State's Council of Prosecutors works. Even if it was, of course, and it wasn't, there's a right here to challenge. In any case, I don't think your objection to economics simply stands. The economy is indeed in the second plan, independence, independence, the absence of corruption, these are the essential things that we need when it comes to justice, but if we want to deal with economics, I repeat because of our public, 2,500 people from the judiciary are leaving precisely because of this reform by the Government, or the Ministry of Justice. As far as my colleague Malovic is concerned, you know that she is today Brussels and that it is probably the most beautiful thing that can happen in a mandate, to attend that act that we can hardly possibly call historic, which is that we are in a circle of countries that are not needed, or that our citizens will no longer need a visa to join EU countries. I certainly respect your internship and your pledge, but it seems to me that here is your discussion, although, of course, from the position of the profession, primarily directed, or determined by your political status as an opposition MP, and I think, first of all, as a lawyer, and I as a minister, and you and I as citizens, will be pleased with what is now being conducted in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32487	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word. Excuse me, Mr. Jovanovic, one moment. Mr. Savior, on what grounds are you answering? Replica. There's no basis for replication. You're completely well understood. You're not misread. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32488	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Mrs. Belobaba, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so I would like to begin by expressing my protest, not only my own, but most colleagues here in the Assembly, because of the atmosphere and circumstances in which we are discussing such an important issue. The atmosphere speaks of unacceptablely large irresponsibility, arrogance, and ignorance of the executive government of the ruling majority. We should speak openly about this now, at this point, because I am convinced that only in such a way can we get to the point from which it is actually only possible to move towards building a democratic order, which rests on the division of power between the government, parliament and the judiciary. How do we think we're building European Serbia? Of course, by abolishing visas, but is visating credit more important than showing respect for the prosecutors and judges of this country who are elected here today? We can have a partial understanding of this paradoxical fact that brings Mr. Markovic here to parliament. He is a representative of the government in the Serbian Parliament, but he is the minister of state administration. Our government is so irresponsible that she didn't even want to take care of it. The authority of the prosecution and the judiciary rests in respect of the other branches of government in one society. That is why the President of the United States takes an oath before the President of the Supreme Court, not in congress before his party and opposition. I therefore think that we must openly say that, at this point, the executive power, with an anaemic legislative, is a major obstacle to achieving those ambitions that are absolutely justified and to meet those objectives that are necessary if we want to create a democratic and normal country. It is not true that the Justice Committee unanimously supported this. It is true that the ruling coalition, supported by the LDP, did so without us even having a quorum to discuss it. It is not true that our executive authority has given up on the judicial authority, ready to share responsibility for the state of the country. It is true that our executive power always hides behind parliament and the judiciary, when it can no longer face the consequences of its mistakes alone. At least the High Council of the Judiciary is responsible for the fact that we are several hours before the deadline here to discuss the election of the first man of the Serbian Prosecutor's Office, the first man of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the election of a whole series of prosecutors. People who have done much more for this country in their careers than most of those who have not qualified to attend this debate here today and thus show their respect. If we're looking for examples, then let's see how other countries, other politicians and parties, senators, congressmen, MPs, behave when, say, selecting the bearers of the most significant judicial issues? All of America has been involved in Sonja Sotomajor's candidacy as Supreme Court Judge. The first Hispanic American in the Supreme Court. It's all about that person. Every verdict and reasoning was read in the news of national TV, even in Serbia and Belgrade, following satellite programmes, we learned more about the US Supreme Court candidate than we could hear here in parliament about Judge Nate Mesarovic's candidacy for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Has Judge Mesarovic done something wrong in her life, so everything that has actually run and recommended to the post is forgotten here? What did the special prosecutor do to fight organized crime? What did the special war crimes prosecutor do wrong? What the hell did he do for an appeal prosecutor or for a republican prosecutor, when their names aren't even pronounced here? How, then, will this society respect them if we show such great disrespect? If society doesn't respect its judges and prosecutors, what is the message of a session like this, then who is it that judges and prosecutors do the job for? It is true, Mr. Markovic, that a lot of prosecutors and judges will be out of work. Only in this country are the judges and prosecutors left out of work, although their function was guaranteed by the Constitution. But those who compromised the prosecutor's office and the judiciary in Serbia, political abuses and pressures, violations of the law, disrespecting that constitutional provision, they do not share their fate. I think the government, which has the ambition to modernise the country and at least ensure our European future, if it can't make it real right now, is obliged to talk about it. We don't think it's the High Council of the Judiciary that should remind the citizens of this country what the candidate for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court has done. We think the government was obliged, and you too, Mr. Minister, to remind this country, that there are people in it who are very much at risk, often taking on the burdens that the entire institutions couldn't bear. That is why we cannot conduct this debate without mentioning the name of the country's first special prosecutor, Mr Prijic, his deputies Radovanovic, Vitorovic, Milosavljevic, Maras, that we cannot talk about the depolitisation of justice, which is probably our common ambition and the precondition of any order in the country, without showing respect for those who have fought to protect their courtroom from political abuses and those who have succeeded and those who have finally had no more power to participate. Nata Mesarovic announced, as president of the District Court's special department for the fight against organised crime, the verdict to the murderers of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Zoran Djindjic. She succeeds judge Marko Kljajevic in that post. Both Marko Kljajevic and Nata Mesarovic, and Judge Lukic with prosecutors, were doing work on behalf of the country's future, exposed to major pressures from the state. And nothing is worth the promise that we can make to each other, that we are better than some of the other parties that were in power before us, that we will not abuse it. We need clear mechanisms and a law that needs to be respected. We have no reason to hide each other from the fact that the many judicial authorities in Serbia have received the form of an executive authority and that, in fact, under the form of this election, the judge who follows the entry into force of the new Constitution hides the attempt of lustration. Our authority avoids that term because it would then raise a logical question - if judges are illustrated by the lustration of MPs? So we agreed that it's better to say and bring it all down to re-election of judges. It's about the criteria. Those criteria have passed the Venice Commission. Am I right, Mr. Markovic? And the Council of Europe. So these are European criteria and we have no right to remain silent about it, and we must not be silent about it, because then those who are different from us, who speak even when they have nothing to say, will thus form public opinion in this country that it will be impossible to do the job that we started together when we adopted these laws. The criteria for re-election of judges in this country are verified by the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission. It is a commission that was created in the early 1990s, a commission of democracy through rights, a democracy that needed to be established in the countries of Eastern Europe, which fell apart because the order in which it rested fell apart. And did our constitution pass the Venice Commission? It's not. Did the Venice Commission bring any objections to the constitution? Yes, it is. So, on what is the basis of our society, the Venice Commission has an objection. And that's what we need to think about going together looking for answers to that question about how we're going to get rid of them. Why does it matter? Because it is not the High Council of the judiciary's fault that the ruling majority, i.e. the executive authority, has decided to ignore part of its obligation, and to disobey the recommendation of the College of the Deans of Law in the country who have applied for a member of the Council of Professors. Tomic. That right comes from the law. If we meet at that level with the executive's ambition to uphold the law when it suits her, and when she doesn't answer to ignore that law, then we have serious problems, at least because tomorrow someone else will give them the same right, and be ready to go much further. So, I suggest that as soon as the executive authority allows the normal functioning of an independent judicial authority in this country, by independent of it, through the selection of all judges of the Constitutional Court, by filling the vacant seat in the Supreme Council of the Judiciary and by fulfilling the obligation to follow the formation of a comprehensive State Council of Prosecutors. The LDP will support all these proposals. We think it's the least we can do, but unfortunately at this point almost everything, because the space we're moving in is narrowed down. The High Council of the Judiciary has proposed to us Judge Nata Mesarovic as the holder of the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court. We think that everything we know about Nati Mesarovic is an absolutely acceptable explanation and argument for this candidacy. That is why we will be very pleased to vote for Nata Mesarovic, while openly speaking about those who, destroying Nata Mesarovic, Marko Kljajevic, Jovan Prijic, practically tried to put an end to what began on March 12th 2003 by killing Zoran Djindjic, but failed to do so, primarily because of the citizens of this country who did not allow it, because of the public who opposed it, in situations where the institution was exposed to the worst pressures of the executive authority. One who has been able to defend the law in this country under these circumstances deserves the respect of every well-intentioned MP, and I believe that there are many more than the number of MPs who make up the ruling majority in this congregation. Same attitude about prosecutors. They're facing great obligations together, but I think that the defeating truth is being ignored -- that it hasn't yet matured awareness of the division of power and shared responsibility. A very difficult job awaits about 2,000 people in our judiciary. I may be wrong in a precise number, but I think it's the number of judges who will remain in our justice system. It's the pressure they put on not only them, but their families. We know very well that any good judge can be a good lawyer tomorrow. We're full of lawyers' offices of judges who have retreated to pressures and gone to someone else, even for them the easy way. That's what they say. Some of them I know personally. We expect these people to sacrifice their families on behalf of democratically arranged, decent, European, fair Serbia. What's he gonna get? A negligiblely small one compared to the receipts they'd get to deal with law enforcement. In what circumstances will it work? When your car breaks down 100km from Belgrade, in some city where you don't know anyone, you feel uncomfortable. Who are they gonna have coffee with the first day they come to work with? How is someone gonna wait for them there, in what atmosphere? Who will refer them to those unwritten rules that exist in every system, including in the system of some basic court in Serbia or the prosecution? So much of the challenges facing these people in our prosecution and the judiciary, it takes public admiration for the commitment and responsibility they take, and respect. This is the last chance for your government, Mr. Markovic, to start respecting both prosecutors and judges. I'm not telling you personally anything, you're here, but I think at this time, at 1735, that the least minister of Mr. Cvetkovic is in his cabinets, that they are in every other place, and they would be obliged to sit here and show their presence not only support, but also respect for those with whom they share responsibility for life in this country, and at this point are prosecutors and judges. Out of a sense of responsibility and respect, which is so lacking in the ruling coalition, we provide absolute support for proposals from the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, and we will continue to, to the extent possible, not through pressures but through an agreement with the ruling majority, to enable the completion of a job that is not complete until the Constitutional Court is completed, until the State Greater Prosecutors, the High Council of the judiciary and provides the essential preconditions for the normal functioning of the judicial authority in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32489	The word has been made by Parliamentarian Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32490	Mrs. Giurjina Belobaba, welcome to our home as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary. To tell you the truth, I haven't been pleased with my performance a long time ago, which implodes us to the MPs and to this home first, to your accuracy, because before the break you were there, with your willingness to do so without paper, probably as you do in your place of work, you bring out, defending, indeed, I have assessed, heartily and honestly confidently that you represent the candidate you truly believe in. If it were luck, this would be a day-to-day opportunity, if it were luck, this would be the usual introduction in this home, and I wouldn't be surprised by this myself. Unfortunately, in this House, even a subject like this, it is debated as another session that is under way and we, Mrs. Belobaba, are only working under one rule, which is that there are no rules. Although we have precisely defined working conditions, Rules of Procedures, we can't exactly plan at what time the session begins, are we going to be seriously prepared for this topic. The vote will be when people gather, although it is said when it will be, but let's say that we and our work can endure it, and that it is not a burden on the quality of what we say. I'm trying to maintain that quality. My countryman with KIM, my colleague, before I answer, he tells me in a joke, are you gonna talk, so this isn't about economists. No, I just want to talk about this subject, but in the economy, which I know, I can make an argument to contribute to this discussion and really respond in the same way to your seriousness. I think the judiciary is even the laws that we're making here, and the government is proposing them to us, they're not a good condition for you to work with. I'll start with what we had a chance to say here today. With that -- whether you believe it or not as a lawyer, we have passed a Law on determining jurisdiction, in which many areas that regulate fully specific behaviours and division of competences from hunting and fishing, regional development, imports and exports, tax policies, we have a formulation in members where it says they will, for example. The AP Vojvodina does these things in accordance with the law. You know, and someone who's heard two lines of law know they're never told -- by law, except in constitutional formulation, because the constitution is a supreme law that requires concrete laws to come out. That's the only form allowed here. In all other laws, it says - in accordance with this law, if any, concrete, or - in accordance with some specific law, whose name or area is stated. How tomorrow, as an independent branch of this authority, the judiciary, regardless of what domain of the prosecution or courts, you will be able to do your job if you get a law in which you do not know where the distinction between the jurisdiction of the province and the Republic is because it says that some law, and nonsense, is equal to that that some area will regulate the positive legal regulations. Which one? For example, you get criminal charges from the privatisation area, tax evasion. I told my colleagues that it was a primary task to arrange for them, for example. the number and compliance of the laws in tax policy. There are 13 basic laws that regulate value added tax. Then 18 regulations relating to these laws, 91 regulations regarding this matter, 56 tax returns which are required by the taxpayer to file in relation to these laws. The finance ministry issued 2,800 binding opinions on the application of these laws, of which 1,000 are related to the application of the Value Added Tax Act. In addition, there are 35 other ratified international agreements that regulate the area of avoidance of double taxation with countries with which we have reciprocal relations. How can you, some of your fellow judge, a prosecutor, manage in these woods regulations, in which tax bonds, which perform concrete activity, not easily manage, because they pay even some tax that they are not sure should be paid, just so they don't suffer sanctions for unpaid taxes, because the sanctions are so high, as if they were measured with a budgeting measure, which from regular activities can become increasingly difficult to charge. I understand very much how complex your work is and we MPs, who are able to pass their judgment on the laws by which you will judge, make a different contribution. We make quite real arguments with a desire that when these laws apply to us, as taxpayers, as people who do some work, who have a chance to find themselves before a court, who have a chance to find themselves and to be subject to some criminal charges, that we know that this law is understandable, that it is just and that, as long as you have a range of penalties broadly, you will be able to adequately determine the punishment and that the purpose of the existence of the law and of those who apply it is that these and such harmful phenomena, mean tax evasion, I speak only in the area of economy, abuses and similar things do not happen, to the least possible extent. Because if that's not the purpose of our existence here and yours, we're spending government money, we're spending civilian money in vain. Each of us makes a difference. Someone's in a hurry to finish the act, finish the vote and go do another job. We see our sense of engagement through a timely reference to problems that if they don't get solved at the first moment, they're going to like that "Babab" from a little prince's book grows to such size, that they're going to break up the globe. Our business sphere broke because neither the authority I want to talk about today, which is the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, has reacted in good time to all abuses in privatisation processes, which have led to many businesses being privatized, unrespected contracts, taken into bankruptcy, people staying on the street, many resources missing, revenues from privatisation being spent. Today we are facing the problem of borrowing as one of the most outstanding ways to fill the budget. It's also a problem for you as well as for the professions, the branches of the government, and for us, for all citizens, and for the MPs that we're talking about here. The problem, because it's funded and enlightened where our children are being educated, and health care, where our parents and pregnant women should be treated, because we all swear that the future without the people doesn't exist, but we don't think about it complexly and thoroughly at the moment when we have the chance. That's why no one can blame us tomorrow and it won't be our fault. It'll be ours. Let us bear in mind that this moment when we talk about judicial reform and the laws on which he will judge are the frames for our images, our existence and our existence here as MPs and as people, and that someone will remember it, and that we will all suffer the consequences. How's that frame? In the first reform of the judiciary after 2000, reforms meant giving up people of the old regime. Is there anyone who's real and smart that can accept such a formula? What is the criterion - former regime or current regime? People are divided into honest and unfair, professional and unprofessional, valuable and lazy, quality and unquality. They should not be divided, and at least in this area they should be divided into human beings and these parties, yours and ours, the people of the old or the new regime. One of the people in this area, I personally appreciate, experiencing persecution, as one of many I have had the opportunity to hear, thus characterising her belonging to the old regime: “Is it my fault that I was able to work at that time, so that her qualities earned a function at some higher level? “ Yes, and such people were guilty, and whoever endured such guilt, and whoever was a vindictee of such punishment must not, in the name of revenge, continue to carry on such conduct. There's no lustration in belongings, because they're never good and they're never good. Any sentence that begins with the word "all" is false in the beginning. Share people according to the quality of their work, according to the results for which you will measure the criteria that are objective. In this way, you will earn the respect of those for whom we all exist. Such respect, unfortunately, was not deserved in the judicial reform because, during a very long period, the Justice Committee itself, which was supposed to help this reform, had too long scheduled sessions or put on the agenda for people who had been retired. That's just inadmissible. It is the least guilty of this committee, which has not contributed to clearing up the situation, but in terms of liberating people who have acquired legal conditions to retire. What was the biggest problem in this area was the continued influence and the insistence of the executive authority to put this branch under control, primarily speaking about the prosecution. The people of your profession, founded in certain organizations that were supposed to help the quality of your work, said, rightly, that the prosecution should not become the fist of politics that abuses this branch in the way it directs whether any object will stand in a drawer and hang someone like Damocle's sword, that someone would be obedient, as a possible guilt. Will an object be dealt with in such a way that someone is free of the guilt or persecutions that have been placed on him as suspicions or will in some way be carried out upon him? You and I both know that the mechanisms of influence of politics and executive authorities have so sophisticated, like all modern technologies and achievements in civilization. No one will dare do any kind of direct influence, let alone a written clue that will leave an impact. But you know it's possible that through that manual of senior prosecutions, you give instructions that can be a kind of indirect influence. I sincerely hope that these instructions, which are needed in the business, too, can be made so by your internal instructions that those who always wish to direct an investigation or procedure in some direction bring serious concerns that one day they can be held accountable for the wrong direction, to indicate the release of someone who is guilty, and that no personal interest or motive for that kind of directional procedure in the judiciary should be left unpunished. So, for me, this crime in the economy is terrible, because it leaves people out of work, with no dignity, no perspective and no hope, the most terrible because he's not being punished. We continue to have problems with economic abuse because what has no predictive and certain punishment may still seem unpunished and cause many to suffer and wonder whether there is a court in this country and whether there are people in whom we can believe, as people who bring us justice in accordance with the laws that rule in this country. That's your job. So all the expertise of you as a lawyer, as people who gain experience in the prosecutions and in various judicial functions, ultimately comes down to the feeling of a man who is concerned with your expertise, your commitment to work, your speed in work, your desire to contribute to the general good, is someone to whom your final dictation of judgment is fair or unfair, did the culprits remain unpunished or ended up where they belong? Many of the functions in this country are just starting this job. Many of the independent institutions we are building, such as the State Audit Institute, should only transfer that part of the job to you, as is the case with the 2008 final account. It's one of the most serious expectations that we have from you, that all those who deserve criminal and criminal charges, because they were in charge of proposing the law, because in their hands was the sword, and the knife and the cakes, and they were so bold that they could abuse civil money. So for the first time I'm going to quote an analyst, Mr. Goati, who rightly told this occasion – this government is acting like the man who bought Armani's suit, and then went to the soup kitchen and asked for a warm meal because he has nothing to eat. In order not to be described this way, even if it is a hyperbole, the guilt of this government in illegal spending, you must, as an independent branch of the work of the judiciary, show that you are not under the influence of the political influences that I am talking about, that you are not under the auspices of the executive authority and that you can rightly be told by the citizens – yes, it is the judiciary we want. And not to say today -- who was in charge of "Sartid" being still in someone's drawer, that is, by the decision of one of the people elected here today, the case stood in the drawer frozen for a while, and then the addition of the investigation was repeated. And every very professional man in this area knew that the moment the case was rejected, at the first moment unfounded for continuing to conduct the procedure, he contained all the elements of the abuse. If it hadn't been for Sartida, if it hadn't been for "Duvana" from Chačka, if it hadn't been for the privatisation of the "Future" from Dobanovac, if it hadn't been for 3,000 squares in the privatisation of the Moscow Hotel, if it hadn't been for members of the tender commission in the privatisation of Beopetrol then went to be employees of the customers and there hadn't been any reports that weren't completed in the way that was unequivocally foreseen by the law, we might have had more faith that the prosecution and this branch of the judiciary would have done something in the interest of all of us. Please understand the seriousness of the reform that awaits a responsible approach to giving jobs to quality people and obligations for all of us to account for citizens. As far as we're concerned, you have all the help you can get, but you have great expectations. I hope you meet them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32491	The word is from Ambassador Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32492	Madam President, the honourable representatives of the motionors, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are in the House of National Assembly tonight discussing the election of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and Prosecutors. We are discussing three years after the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and a year since the adoption of the Law on the High Council of the judiciary. The legal deadline for selecting judges with a permanent term of office means in the basic, higher appeals, economic and criminal courts expires on December 1st 2009, meaning tomorrow. You, as a representative of the High Council of the Judiciary, who was elected by the High Council of Justice, were fortunate to enter the Supreme Council of the judiciary, but the fact that some members of the High Council of Justice, who were proposed for the High Council of the Judiciary, were not so fortunate, just as some had the good fortune that, by the very letter of the law, when their term in the High Council of Justice ceased, they were promoted beyond the rules as our legislation provides. The Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group pointed to a number of problems this law will cause when adopting the Law on the High Council of the judiciary. A large number of our amendments were adopted and the good part was corrected, but unfortunately those key things were not corrected, and because of these things we are about to have some problems in the functioning of this organ. Just to remind you that on 4 March 2009, the Association of Judges of Serbia submitted to the Constitutional Court an initiative to assess the constitutionality of the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, where, among other things, it is said that members of the High Council of the Judiciary have moved to several courts after the term of office. As far as I know, since June, the Constitutional Court has not come forward on this issue and I expect at least these ten judges of the Constitutional Court to give their opinion on this request by the Association of Judges of Serbia. The European Commission believes that this reform and its hasty application pose a major risk to independence, credibility and the efficiency of the judiciary. It's a quote from the European Commission's report. Minister Markovic had just explained to us some technical details and procedures, and we all know that the High Council of the Court has 11 members, that there are six judges and of course the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, as the seventh judge, chairing the body. The number of judges and the criteria for selecting judges in the Republic of Serbia has been established by the High Council of the judiciary, but in incomplete composition. I would remind you that on 26 October 2009, Professor Zoran Tomic was removed from the agenda as a member of the High Council of the judiciary. So he came as a proposal from the High Council of Justice, passed the Justice Committee, and was magically removed from the agenda. Not only has the incomplete composition of the High Council of the Judiciary established the criteria and number of judges in Serbia, but since tomorrow December 1st and the deadline when judges must be elected in Serbia, it is obvious that the incomplete composition of the High Council of the Judiciary has also made the choice of judges in Serbia. Today we elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court who, I said, is the chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and we expect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court to announce tomorrow's list of judges in Serbia. The deadline for his election is midnight tonight. A law on the High Council of the judiciary was passed in December 2008. We are re-entering the shooting with the election of the chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council, and with the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. I am interested in answering whether the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will conduct this election in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia when electing the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. I remind you of article 79. The law on judges, which says the president of the Supreme Cassation Court is elected from the court's ranks. As we all know, that court has not yet functioned, has not been formed, but Article 102 of the same law says that a candidate for the Supreme Court of Cassation and the President can be any person who meets the conditions. In this way, I think that there is also a degradation of the judges themselves of the Supreme Cassation Court and we think that this provision is in direct collegiation with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 144(1) The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia explicitly envisions obtaining the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Casation Court for the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Of course that's not gonna happen. It doesn't matter who it is, it's not about names, it's not about Mrs. Nata Mesarovic, it's not about the prosecutors who are elected, I'm telling you that institutions have to function in this country. It's just that their choice would be in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the law, and that no one can challenge tomorrow's election of any president of the court, there are prosecutors. I am sorry that Mr Markovic was not there, although he had some answers to my questions, I could not answer him, because when he was a MP in this House there was an institute of replicas that had been magically abolished in the past few days, he tried to explain the procedure of electing prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia and the fact is that the proposal for prosecutors elected by the National Assembly was submitted by the Government. Whether the government was in this postman's role or some flow water heater was when she accepted the State's Chief Prosecutor's proposal, I really don't know, to believe his word, but to remind you that even the State's Major Prosecutors don't work in full composition. Unlike Professor Tomic, the candidate for the State's Major Prosecutors also came from an authorised proponent, from Serbia's Bar Association, passed through the Justice Committee and received only one vote in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Speaking of prosecutors, I don't know if anyone was into geography when he wrote this proposal. Did anyone think that in Serbia prosecutors would deal with the prosecutor's tourism? I'll give you just a few examples. Every day traveling from Cačka to Kruševac or, even more drastically, for example, for two cities and for both prosecutors, and for the basic and the higher, the prosecutor from Valjev will work in Šapec. By simple mathematics, those two people in a year need to travel 90,000 kilometers if they're doing the job every day. Of course, they have deputies, they won't travel every day, but it's a shorter relationship. Believe there's a lot longer, and more than 150 kilometers away. Is that an effort for a more efficient and economical judiciary? Believe me, I can't wait to see the draft budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2010 which has been late for 30 days today. Does Mrs Diana Dragutinovic know what two million kilometers are supposed to cross only prosecutors in the coming year and how much will it cost the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Advocacy for the rule of law must not only be a phrase, but it is indeed a constitutional and legal obligation for all of us. I think it is the interest of all MPs to make the Serbian judiciary work in quality, honesty and fair, primarily because of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As you violated the Constitution when you passed the Law on the Jurisdictions of the AP Vojvodina, as the Constitution was violated when the Statute of the AP Vojvodina was adopted, it is obvious that today the Constitution is being violated and in the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. During the judge's election, I repeat once again, it's due by midnight. Tomorrow we expect to see which 500 people have lost their jobs, because we think that the key thing for a judge, his human dignity and his dignity, and his expertise, and we have justifiable reasons to worry, is to fear that when a politician chooses someone, he is silent and must not speak. It'll be sad if it's confirmed. I sincerely hope that the most capable, most professional will pass, but I expect you to announce it tomorrow. I fear that the Serbian judiciary will only lead the same over the coming years, unlike the rules that were in force in our courts recently, that only well married women and incompetent men work in court. That's why I wish you a lot of success in selecting judges in the next period and really make sure that the most professional and most capable have passed this re-election.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32493	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32494	Since 2001, the SRS has very often used the opportunity when on the agenda or when there were regulations in the area of the judiciary, and sometimes decisions on selecting judicial holders, to point out a designed system that practically destroys our judiciary and I have no intention of reminding and making any retrospective of what was used as a means to achieve that goal. Last year at this time, even at the beginning of this year, we pointed to all the failures of new regulation solutions, and today we have come into a situation to discuss the consequences. In time, we've located the causes. It wasn't difficult for us to have an unmistakable idea of what the consequences would be, so one of these consequences is that today our courts don't mostly judge, the prosecutions don't prosecute, they just delay the search, because judges and prosecutors say -- you know what, nobody knows what's going to happen since New Year's Eve. Whether I'm going to be a judge or a prosecutor. No, we're putting off indefinitely, so we'll see what happens. In addition to one of the wrong networks of judicial institutions, we also have the wrong regulations about who should propose and who should choose the holders of judicial functions, and then we have something that, I thought it just stood in books as a negative experience, that even analogy presents itself as the ultimate form of interpretation of the legal norm. First of all, it relates to these two incomplete bodies that are authorized to propose and select the holders of judicial functions. Of the 11 members, they have 10. Practically, these organs haven't been made yet, but we've heard it's an analogy -- if the Constitutional Court can, then so can these organs. However, with the Constitutional Court, the constitutional law provides for the situation. There is no regulation here for this situation. But let's go back to these proposed forms. What is seen as a motive or something that led to the formation of these proposals? We see that there are practically two criteria. One criterion is legality and another criterion is 126 votes. Here it was promoted that with 126 votes, anything was possible. In 1993, however, it was possible with 70 votes to declare the globe a quarter. At the time, Mr Bozovic was the chairman, and 70 votes were required by the majority to say that something had been voted. It's 126 votes now, and there's practically absolute accuracy behind 126 votes. One is the situation when a political discussion is being held, so political views are being expressed, which is somewhat understandable, but when some decisions are being made or some regulations, which have the basis in the Constitution or have the necessary need to rely on other legal solutions, then 126 votes again are also a criterion for interpreting obligations and legal norms. It's familiar to citizens, and I have no intention of convincing them. However, there is also a phenomenon of legality. We have legislation when DS is in power, then nothing's been done to clean up. There's always something unfinished left to be present that principle that's better, the spare variant, something left behind, can be considered. Without the intention of entering legal solutions and imperfect legal provisions, about who proposes, who chooses, etc., I'm already starting from the fact that it's a done deal, I have to say that this variant, where the government suggests when it comes to prosecutors, reminds me of that time after the state of emergency. Let me remind you, during a short period of time, there was a regulation by which public prosecutors were elected by the government. We've had so much erosion. I remember in time in that building Batic suggested we return to 15 minutes, if necessary, the death penalty and finish after the job again. I also remember the time when pensioners were elected presidents of district courts, when the lawyers, the secretaries of the cooperatives elected as presidents of the courts, and we had a very strange situation where at the same session a man was elected judge, and then also for the president of the court. Our judiciary has all been amenated, accepted, because they don't fight for their jobs. They're fighting for their positions. To show it to the citizens on a picturesque case, how it works for the DS. You see, when, because of the obvious abuses of the current chairmanship and violations of the Rules of Procedure, his dissatisfaction is manifested by the MP transferring his shoe over the table, it is primitiveism. But when Minister Krapovic comes through here, and he hits an SRS MP, there is no resignation, no resolution, but Boris Tadic says it is some legality. I'm going to talk about this lawfulness that's characteristic of the DS. I'm saying this because the citizens finally realized that you are the very bad drivers of this bus called Serbia. You've had quite a split bus. It's just one tire, another tire. It's all good. What led those who proposed these candidates for these functions and infallible must be said. First, the personal interest of individual members of these two bodies. First of all, I mean Bosko Ristic, Goran Ciric, and this legal fela who somehow got into that combination. If you don't believe me, go to Nis, ask the judges, prosecutors, lawyers and the citizens of Nis. Everything you received as a proposal, as regards the areas of the Niš Court of Appeal, is based on the naked, personal interest of Bosko Ristić. Then you'll see how it's combined, how it's over-tumbed. Furthermore, the second criterion that arises is political. What's the top political criterion? These parties that are in power in the coalition, each of them has tried to carry out a kind of probe through their municipal board, by the executive board, in certain municipalities, where the courts and prosecutors' seats are, to see which of their staff they can count on, and such people have suggested. That went smoothly, and even went past the head of some president of the Republic's office, who we kicked out of the D.A. two years ago. I think it was a Budic, and in February of this year he resigned as a member of the RIK. So it's enough to be in the People's Office with President Tadic. It doesn't matter that a few years ago you were kicked out of the District Attorney's Office in Prokuplje. That's no problem. You have to vote that. You have to, because there's a criterion 126. The third criterion that arises, however, is expertise. That's what I have to say. As far as I can tell, that's about three-thirds. Where they usually appear, in that place or somewhere nearby, that someone from the prosecution was elected as a prosecutor again, it was obvious that the profession was asked, but they could only pass because DS had no better personnel or personal interests of Bosko Ristic, Kiric and others were not so dominant in that territory. They can't spread across Serbia. I can't. That's how a few such candidates went, which from the court as candidates for one of these prosecutions, which is why people from some lower prosecution are now going to some more prosecution, etc. It's really rare cases. That's what you have to say. That's what led them. Has anyone seen the biographies of the proposed candidates? There isn't. In the old days, when the National Assembly asked and made decisions about who would be elected judge or president of a court or prosecutor or deputy prosecutor, biography was usually present. Someone will say that this should not be of interest to the National Assembly when it comes to prosecutors and when it comes to the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation. It's because it's the National Assembly's decision. All those in the chain of decision-making are assistants and this is the Greater Prosecutors, the Government as a Proposer. They are all the helpers of the National Assembly who are the only one empowered to make a decision. If we'd seen those biographies, we'd probably have a better argument for criticizing individual solutions and individual suggestions, but since we don't have those biographies, we have to talk in memory. Why the memory? Because we have old patients, when it comes to this agenda. I would go in a row, so I would even ask these people of the service, if I mention a name and a name to interpret it, since it's still part of that old Rules of Procedure, to take it as a challenge to the election, so that in the day to vote, the account will be taken of it too. The vote is, I know it's a small one because 126 is 126-- that can't change the swine flu right now, since this vaccine came. He does history and works for the public, but he should know. What can we say about Mrs. Nati Mesarovic? I can only mention two things I've heard about her. First, that she joyfully cried out one day. The verdict came to us, and on that same day she tried to read what was written without stuttering or stuttering. Of course, it is her greatest credit and therefore you could push her even to the President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Beyond that, the public doesn't know. If we had a little biography, if we had a little chat with our colleagues, we'd probably hear a lot of other things. Let's move on. Let's take, say, this one of yours - Nebojsa Budic, head of the National Office of the President of the Municipality of Prokuplje. He used to be a district attorney, maybe I'm wrong, maybe municipally, maybe he was a deputy, but I remember he was and he didn't come through here. He came to the SRS MPs' club to say that he was unhappy, that he was a great expert and that he had nothing to do with the DS gang. That's what Hope said, believe me, we were in that building. Here's a witness from the Faith Radeta. I don't know what hit you – did what was at my place or what he said to me or is this a qualification in your party? You have to deal with him, please. Don't, I'm not a lawyer. Please deal with him. Don't transfer it to me, but that's what the man said. Furthermore, you see, he will be the prosecutor at the appeals public prosecutor's office in Kragujevac. Imagine Kragujevac as a big center, the center of the forest, the law school has, you know, that one. He has the District Attorney's Office, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the District Court, the District Court and the whole of Kragujevac, in the centre of Shumadi, there was no division, but a man from Prokuplje had to come. What are these criteria? Here I am saying that the only criterion is the National Office of the President of the Municipality of Prokuplje. There, that's the chamber, the pride and the Dick of Shumadia, as you say. Next, for the Republic Public Prosecutor, you proposed to Zagorka Dolovac. As far as I know about her, she came from Novi Sad, and there's little who knows at the D.A.'s office. They remember that she is very often in the Ministry of Justice and in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and that's her entire work résumé. She's probably obedient to DS, and she'll do her best to satisfy your interests. If anyone heard anything else, can they come out and say it? Give me a nice word, say something nice - she's had so many thousands of criminal persecutions, they've been so successful, they haven't dropped her charges, she's performed well, she's written quality complaints, give some quality. They don't know her from the D.A.'s office, do you know? Why am I telling you this? We changed the laws because of Sonja Brkic and that Ostojić of yours, do you remember Mr. Ristic? To elect Ostojic as Republic Public Prosecutor, the law had to be changed, Mr. Ristic. You remember how you expelled Leposava Karamarkovic and Siniš Simic -- you expelled them from the judiciary. Why--to come your obedients to finish the job? This is phase two. It is the lawfulness of the DS when it is in power, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. In 2001, you were also the victim of one such policy, not to mention judges for crimes, not to mention other judges who suffered torture from both Batic and other people who were with him at the Ministry. It's happening again. You, fortunately now for you, are not the victim, will be some other victim, but the principle is the same. I'm talking about principle. There'll be no one to say a good word, from the point of view of the profession. I see that the lady, too, is glad that someone is finally saying what the situation is like in the judiciary, and the lady is glad, and she needs to take down the burden -- there's a great burden under which they need to work and listen to what you're saying and what you expect them to do. Let's move on, gentlemen, let's see. Vladimir Vukcevic - enough, here's enough to say it. Miljko Radisavljevic - so I don't know, this Kruševac is a crucible of staff. We have one in the BIA, we have another in the BIA, we have this for economic crime, for organized crime -- in Serbia, people are booming organized crime. It's a flower. Where is it, at the top? But at the top -- you're missing these matchmakers you're arresting there, you're playing something, big action, so with BIA, with DIA, with international etc. Let it go, so people know what it's all about. This is a special story about how you've been embezzling - from one place to another. Why is it a special story? You've made such proposals, when it comes to the basics and this senior prosecutor's office and these chief prosecutors in those prosecutions have proven, for a whole series of places, that there are none in these large centres that could work, but someone from Prcilovica has to come. You can imagine that in the territory of the district public prosecutor's office in Nis, there is no prosecutor, deputy prosecutor, district, municipal, etc., they already have to bring in a lady from Soko Banja. Tell me people -- is that how you want to say that everything that's been done so far in criminal cases on the territory of that district public prosecutor's office wasn't very good, it wasn't in accordance with the law? Only Bosko Ristić can say that and no one else can. Why? He was probably resented by one of them in some personal interest. He's vindictive, you know. He wrote the Constitutional Charter of the State Community - he broke up. So he wrote a rule of justice. That judiciary never came to life what he wrote. He's involved in this now -- there's nothing out of this, people, you know? You know, when someone's so big, it's not a good job for him. In the entire bar, people can't stand, lawyers, this pressure. You can imagine, from the court and that part, there was no judge, no prosecutor in this. Why - is Bosko Ristic enough and now he's got this friend of his, Goran Ciric in it? You will hear only from the courts, and from the election of courts, and from the deputy prosecutors, and from the president of the courts, what they have done, of a purely personal interest. You smile, you smile. You always laughed, but Serbia fell apart, when you laugh -- that's the biggest problem. You can imagine -- in order for someone to be a prosecutor at the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Piroth, there's none there, there's no one in Nis, he has to come from Vranj. Imagine, further, the More Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje -- a man is coming, a deputy public prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office, from Vranj. Now tell me what you've been doing. Why didn't you bring this Budic back to the bath? No, that's where you see these three criteria, which led you. The personal, individual members of these judicial authorities, politically, to meet the needs of the party, and only in the end, where there could be no expression to meet, to find candidates under these two criteria, came this third -- waist. So, very little in these proposals, you can talk about the profession and that the criteria that you have called for under this rule have been met, especially since we can only question it. (President: Time. One more sentence. Because we don't have a biography, and I remember that sometimes it's the Justice Committee, including the National Assembly, they didn't even want to argue unless they multiplied the biography.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32495	Mr. Krasic, I had no intention of interrupting you, but I want to remind you and all of us of article 181. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says that during the search session of the Committee on Justice and Administration and session of the National Assembly, the MP may dispute the proposal for the selection of individual public office holders in the area of the judiciary and the state administration, with the dispute being explicitly and reasoned. You've spoken in a way that has no explanation and no explicitness, so I'd remind you, I think you know the attitude of Article 3 181, I just want to make this possible because I think you've been inadequate all along in relation to the position you were supposed to have. Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32496	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, make sure you didn't hear me, I just called on it, I didn't quote a member, but I said there was a possibility of challenging the choice of individuals. Read the stenogram. I said - I ask the people of the service to keep track of the names of the candidates I challenge in the follow-up to my discussion. I said all that in time, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. You don't need to warn me. I still said this provision was obsolete. The question is whether she should be in the new Rules of Procedure. I even said that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32497	Mr. Bosko Ristic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32498	President-in-Office, Mrs. Djurjina Bjelobaba, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, I won't look back on what you've all just heard. I think that we are facing a very important task here because judicial reform is one fundamental issue, the reform issue in Serbia, and it is also a reform of the political system that needs to ensure democracy in relations, should ensure the division of power, and on the other hand, the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, its law on enforcement and all laws defining the behaviour and behaviour and regulation of judicial institutions. Such work as we are dealing with the judiciary all together, of course both the government and the opposition and all independent state bodies that are obliged to ensure the independence and independence of judicial institutions, is responsible behaviour towards the needs of the target Serbs. I especially want to say that justice reform is not in its focus, there is no central question about the position of individual judicial holders. First of all, it has the interest of the Serbian citizens and their desire for justice. We are all witnessing a very poor reputation for the Serbian judiciary, primarily among Serbian citizens. First of all, there are the largest number of complaints that there are no justices, that not all are equal before the law and that individual holders of judicial functions do not perform their duties in a decent manner. I'm deliberately undermining this -- some of the holders of the judicial functions. I agree with one of the previous speakers that every sentence that should represent a finding, and it starts with, everyone, does not represent the truth. We have to say by name and last name who these people have given trust to through a system that provides the division of power and a fair choice of public officials who can truly perform these functions in the interest of Serbia's citizens. A very large number of objects are obsolete. Some things take too long. The trial within a reasonable period was not a standard that was run by judicial officers and speaks of those who were unconsciously carrying out their duties, not taking an interest in citizens wanting to get justice within a reasonable period of time, for life. Very often we have had the opportunity to see that in certain courts and for too long cases, citizens cannot achieve their right to live, but they do so rightly by their successors, fighting to preserve the dignity of their ancestors. In order not to repeat that, if everyone is equal before the Constitution and the law, we must have institutions with full democratic capacity. It is the Constitution and the law for its implementation, which was voted upon by those who spoke earlier, that provides a guarantee for an independent and independent judiciary. The High Council of the judiciary, as defined by its constitutional position, as defined by its conduct under the law, provides for an independent and quality choice of legal holders, primarily by judges. The members of the High Council of the judiciary are mostly judges. This satisfies the principle that judges choose the judges themselves, that no one on the side can have a major impact on the choice of judicial holders. We have provided a guarantee of the survival of this principle by selecting the High Council of the judiciary. There are seven judges on the High Council of Justice. Currently, the minister of justice is a member, the chairman of the Committee on Justice and the elected representative of the Chamber, elected by the National Assembly. I won't talk about the incorrect insinuations my predecessor handled, the lies he made. First of all, I want to pass on to this House that there is an atmosphere of democratic debate in the Supreme Council, that all members with full integrity, that everyone is fighting for their position, in accordance with the rules that we have brought together and published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". The criteria by which we choose the holders of judicial functions are also publicly published, and the criteria have otherwise passed all the democratic procedure of quality checking standards on which we base our decisions. The relevant EU bodies establishing a standard of conduct have only positive views on the standards we apply. In parallel, we can find that the High Council of the judiciary has been elected and established in a more democratic way and that the choice that provides for a guarantee of independence, independence of judges, above all at the time of the decision, because they should be the most independent there, when they decide on the requirements of the parties or when they decide whether they have committed a criminal offence and whether they should give him sanctions and any sanctions. We provided that independence to the judges during the decision-making process. To return to the concrete proposal that the High Council of the Judiciary has made, above all, to Parliament, because it is his authority. I want to say that Mrs. Nata Mesarovic is truly a guarantee of judicial independence and independence right when deciding. I also want to point out that her personality and her work so far, the dignity she has shown in her work, the determination to fight injustice, crime, guarantees that there will also be the absence of an internal addiction that very often happens between the president of the courts and the judges. We know that we are talking about the incomplete division of power and the influence of the executive or legislative authority on certain proceedings, but we often forget to say that there is an internal dependence, where the judges of the lower court very often depend on the judges of the higher court or go to the judges of the higher court who translate into judgment. This is absolutely not acceptable, and we want the system of comfort the judge will apply strictly on the basis of his knowledge and the Constitution and the law and he will stick to it. There have been remarks here that the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors are not competent, i.e. that they do not have full legitimacy because they have a lack of one elected member. There is another fact that I would like to point out, which is that a proposal has come before this House of Authors and a joint session of the Law Faculty, but such a proposal has not passed, and a new proposal has not yet come before the Assembly. As for the lawyer's representative, I would like to say that the lawyer's representative has already been proposed to parliament for the election of all other candidates for the first Council of Prosecutors' Assembly, but that in the re-election, the same candidate has not received almost any support in parliament. It is the right of parliament to choose a candidate as a member of a state body, if that is defined by the Constitution and law. There is no obligation for parliament to accept a proposal from candidates, if it believes that the criteria it has established do not satisfy the trust that we have passed on through the citizens who have elected us here. The lack of one member of the institution does not mean that there is no legitimacy of the institution. In the event that the prosecution or court does not select a full number of judges and prosecutors, in terms of the number announced in the election ad, that does not mean that the institution is not legitimate. Parliament itself, when it comes to the constitution of each assembly, has no lack of legitimacy if there are 2/3 of elected MPs. That's what the Constitution says. That's why we need to use analogy in all those things if it's not to the end and to the point defined by the position of the institutions, in terms of their legitimacy. It is said here that there is no choice to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, because there is no opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court. It is not possible to get the opinion of an existing body to be established by electing Supreme Court judges after 1 January 2010. Therefore, there are transitional provisions, which are said to be chosen within 90 days of the establishment of the Supreme Judiciary Council by the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. It is not a pre-inclusive deadline and I have to say something about it, because there are deadlines here to be mentioned as something that should create an obstacle to Parliament's further conduct in establishing the institutions of the judiciary. There's no pre-exclusive deadlines, they're instructional deadlines. Do not lose the right unless parliament elects a Supreme Cassation Court president within 90 days. There is also no legitimacy of the body if all judges are not chaired by the person who passed the election in parliament during the election. All other advice from the High Council of the judiciary has passed the election in Parliament, in some of the legally prescribed ways. That is why the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, as chairman of the High Council, must be given full legitimacy with today's election to this place. Of course, parliament is free to decide whether it will accept the proposal of an authorised promoter. All the quality we talked about, all the quality of candidate Nate Mesarovic, listed in the explanation of the High Council of the judiciary, speak of the fact that we have the highest quality candidate to perform such a significant function. We are here to plead, but we do not have the right to be in charge of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, who are the only ones on the basis of criteria who can choose candidates or propose them to the Assembly for election. We can accept such a proposal or refuse it. We have no right to interfere in the work of that independent branch of the judiciary. Mixing into the work of the High Council of the Judiciary just means an insufficient division of the branches of the government, which should ensure the democracy of the constitution of our political system. In the end, I want to say that 2,838 judges will be elected now in this competition, as we predict. Whether all seats will be filled will be decided by the High Judicial Council, in line with the quality of the candidates who applied for individual courts. That goes for the DA's office, too. I would like to challenge the remark that the prosecutors will walk unfoundedly from place to place and that the state's major prosecutors, past the will of the public prosecutor, have made their move elsewhere. All selected candidates have applied precisely for those prosecutions they have been elected as prosecutors. No one has been moved past their will, which would be inadmissible by law, but each of these candidates has competed, applied for a particular prosecutor's office, and thus the state's major prosecutors could make a choice among several candidates. In some cases there was only one candidate, if he met the criteria for choice, he was elected. You will also note that no prosecutor has been elected in some prosecutors' offices, because the state's major prosecutors felt that the candidates who applied did not meet the criteria set by the state's major prosecutors, on the basis of which the election is being made. What this choice will allow is a quality trial. This means the satisfaction of justice and this means a serious fight against crime and corruption. There is a law and there are systemic solutions that provide for the prevention of corrupting activities, or at all causes and possibilities. We thought in the State Council of Prosecutors it was good to make a choice between candidates who meet all other criteria, and come from other cities and municipalities. We believe that this further reduces the corrupting potential, as it will fully ensure efficient, professional and fair work by public officials in the area of justice. Serbian citizens themselves know who these public officials are that do not carry out their obligation to the Constitution and the law consistently and that prevents citizens from effective justice within the short term. I think that the desire for justice in Serbia through institutions, with respect for the Constitution and the law, has really come to an end, that it is necessary to implement reforms that we have otherwise promised citizens. For such a programme, we who are on this side, in this branch of government, in parliament, and, we have received support from citizens, and thus, around such a programme, we have gathered the majority and such commitment to the citizens must be fulfilled consistently. Once again, I would like to thank the representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, who is patiently, patiently and responsibly doing his job here in parliament. I expect that we will establish such a good parliamentary and political practice, that the branches of the government co-operate on the interests of Serbian citizens. And that in a dignified way, we will defend our argument and attitudes, whether we agree or not, but in the interest of Serbian citizens, I want us to get the judiciary that will guarantee their position before the Constitution and the law, and each of us very often has such a need to seek the exercise of his legal rights before the judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32499	I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint single search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted to the LDP parliamentary groups, the Progressive Group of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party and the ZES. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32500	Dear Madam President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I would also like to say the honourable representatives of the government, but they are not there, and perhaps my presentation will be illusory, because I really don't know who to address, since the motion for a prosecutorial office is the government. Someone has already said that what we're doing tonight is called a minute to twelve, so it's not the first time that we've had this happen. We've done a lot of work just a minute to twelve, so it seems to have become a good practice in this House of Law. The LDP position is clear. We can ask the question – does the exercise of judicial authority because of this irresponsible relationship have to suffer? Our answer is of course not. That's why we're going to support these suggestions. That's why we have this kind of relationship to such an important job. There is another question – should all the anomalies that have led us here be silenced? Of course, the answer is no, we don't need to keep them quiet. Someone mentioned earlier the involvement of the executive authority in the exercise of judicial functions and in the judiciary at all. I would add that, we can conclude that perhaps the government, in some way, is using its constitutional rights and mockery of the judicial authority. It does not say anywhere in the Constitution or in the law, but it is a good custom, that if it does not represent the Prime Minister in some important business, it is represented by a resolution minister. There is no justice minister here, the government is represented by the state administration minister, as if the government wants to send a message that the public prosecutor's office considers it part of the executive government. Such reasoning is not far from logic. Look at article 159. The Constitution. It clearly states that public prosecutors, therefore, performers of all prosecutorial functions by vertical, are elected at the government's proposal. Can the prosecutor's office be elected in this House without the will of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Of course he can't. That's what this is all about. I would now address colleagues and colleagues from both the left and the right, because many have looked back on this approach to the government and many have criticised this approach to the government. Dear colleagues and colleagues from both left and right, you have made such a constitution, you have voted for such a constitution, you have organised a referendum theft, so please, act now in accordance with such provisions of the Constitution. Is LDP entitled to this attitude and does it have the moral and every other right to criticise as it criticises? Of course there is, because one of us was against such a constitution, one we urged to bring such a constitution and how it interfered with the executive authority in judicial power. All other political structures in the state of Serbia have deafened against our appeal. On the contrary, when we ran an anti-constitutional campaign, LDP activists were arrested. Remember the events in Nis and just the noise the representatives of the SRS have made. That's when you were all together. A short time ago, Minister Markovic mentioned the maxim of "the profession above all", and one of his colleagues added that this is the right reform of the judiciary and that the Supreme Council of the judiciary was elected in the most democratic way. It is simply not true, because democracy is not the terror of the majority over the minority, it is democracy and respect for institutions and respect for professions and respect for good customs. No one in the ruling majority has answered the question why are the State's Major Prosecutors and the High Council of the Court of Justice crumbs, why don't you respect the will of the profession? For a representative at the High Council of the Judiciary, Professor Tomic was proposed, unanimously by all law schools in Serbia. Prior to that, colleges at law schools had declared themselves. So what did you put in the Constitution that you needed a professor at the High Council of Justice, if you don't want to respect the will of the profession or you don't care, but you're going to wait for the law school to come out the way it suits you, and then you're going to vote on it here because you have 126 MPs? I remind you, distinguished colleagues and colleagues once again, democracy is not the terror of the majority over the minority. At the end of my presentation, I will once again mention the position of the LDP. We will support future holders of prosecutorial and judicial functions because the judiciary, because of the government's irresponsibility, cannot endure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32501	Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32502	Dear Mrs. Belobaba, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution declares the principles of Serbia as a rule of law, as a state in which the supreme principles of rule are the rights and equality of all citizens before the law, will remain only a dead letter on paper unless we implement a comprehensive reform of the judiciary. In this, I can say freely, the historic project has started in the last year or two by passing both the system and sectoral laws in the field of the judiciary, by adopting material and legal, procedural and legal laws. The rule of law and the rule of law cannot exist if there are thousands of outdated criminal cases in one year, if litigation takes 10 years or more. It is precisely our perception and scan of this area that generated one need to make normative and personal changes in the justice system. Today, we are discussing the selection of public prosecutor's office holders and the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court as the most judicial instance. I will be brief and say that me and the DS support all the proposals, since these people are biographies, that all three criteria, which are professionality, competence and dignity, are what the competent authorities have managed to propose to these candidates, and that we, as a country and our judicial system, are already starting to implement all the laws and intensities of this reform, which will mean faster availability of justice to the parties in the process, equal availability of justice to all citizens and thus achieve the standards that our citizens expect.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32503	Two minutes and 30 seconds of the Parliament's time spent. The word is by MP Sreto Peric, followed by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32504	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Belobaba, try not to recognize yourself personally in my presentation, because I do see you as one of the 2,453 future judges in the Republic of Serbia. I'll just comment on your coming here on one decision. I want to say that here, as in ancient Rome, two and a half centuries before the new era, the Senate exercised executive, judicial and legislative power, and now we are trying to return to Serbia at that time. To remind you, there was also a congregation at that time, all those serving the army made up the congregation. Today, we have a completely different congregation, a completely different composition and quite different military laws. On what grounds am I based on this conclusion or on my exposure? Is there a great influence by the executive in the judicial authority? How? Even in these two bodies that we can call institutions in the system of the judicial authority, which are the High Council of the judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors. In a year's time, since the laws under which all the members were to be elected to these two institutions, you haven't been able to finish this job until today. Then what Mr. Zoran Krasic was talking about, the question is raised from the point of view and legal profession: do some institutions exist if they never had in their original form the number of members that were scheduled this time under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? The constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides exclusively that both the High Judicial Council and the State's major prosecutors have 11 members. I will show you and prove to you, you know, everyone present in this room, and the largest number of judges and prosecutors, that never the 11th member of the High Council of the Judiciary has been elected, and was proposed by the University of Belgrade Law School to be Professor Zoran Tomic. We are not helping you choose, but we are just saying that it is not and is never in the State Council of Prosecutors of Representatives, but beware not of the Assembly of the Law Chamber of Serbia, but of the managing board of the Serbian Bar Association, their candidate has never been elected as the 11th member of the State Council of Prosecutors. On this basis, objectively and professionally-scienceally, these two bodies can be challenged and whether the legitimate decisions and all the suggestions we have here in the National Assembly are legitimate. If the incomplete authorities have suggested this, it does not seem that 11 members have been elected, so someone has ceased their function on any basis, and under the law, I am interested - on which basis has a large space of time since the call for competitions to complete the judicial functions? He was done on June 15th. The High Council of the Judiciary issued a contest on June 15th and the State's Major Prosecutors to complete the prosecutorial functions on 19th of October 2009 and no information was ever entirely identical - which number of candidates applied to the competition for regular courts and courts of special jurisdiction in Serbia? The figure of 4,800 is dealt with within the deadline, and it was up to July 30, 2009, plus all the applications that arrived in the post, so it can be concluded that there were over 6,000, about 5,200, and it is known that the number of cases was not recorded in the submission of these applications. What was that for in the High Court Council? Mrs. Belobaba may be able to give and the right answer to that, and we consider it to be a large number, and you made a promise that all the applications would be considered and therefore you did not place numbers when receiving these applications so that you could manipulate the exact number of applications. I will now comment on the motion for a decision to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. I must tell you that the only choice of President of the Supreme Cassation Court is provided by the Constitution, one member, is Article 144, which is particularly devoted to the election of that President, or the President of that Court. The President of the Supreme Cassation Court, on a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary, is elected by the National Assembly, in the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court and the National Assembly's competent board. Here, we have a situation here that can hardly be applied in practice. For the first time, we are choosing the president of that court, and he is to be proposed by the General Session of the Court. How do we get out of that galamatias now? We'll try it this way. You have done something that is not in accordance with the law many times before. I must remind you, fellow MPs and the public of Serbia, once today, yesterday, was the festival of the people and the nationality of the SFRY, and this November 30th will remain remembered for something else, that most in the National Assembly, call it whatever way you want, made a decision to accept the Statute of Vojvodina and to vote the Law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. But a colleague, Rangelovic, also spoke of the need to make a decision on the election of the Supreme Cassation Court president and on the holders of prosecutorial functions. This is not the only situation, as a colleague himself said, when some important decisions were made in minutes to 12. And governments were elected in minutes to 12 and Serbian citizens had no luck from such governments. About 600 judges are known to be jobless and about 100 prosecutors. There will be many more of them, because they may be the ones who first apply to these functions, but if those who were before were admitted, they'll be taking care of about 600 plus 100 prosecutors, that's about 700. The law said what their material and monetary rights are, and the agency law, which will enter into force on 1 January 2010, concerning the fight against corruption, said those persons could not do legal work in the next two years. counterpart Bosko Ristic said that the EU standards are met in respect of the procedures and procedures when proposing these candidates. The procedures have been respected many times, many times they haven't, but what we received from those procedures meant nothing. On the contrary, it has done great damage to both the state of Serbia and its citizens. Now I have, Mrs. Belobaba, one question for you -- how is it possible for Mrs. Nata Mesarovic to suggest you suggest her? Really, I'm not making anything up. I have here in my hands two acts where, in one signature, Mrs. Nate Mesarovic has authorized you to propose her to the President of the Supreme Cassation Court on behalf of the High Council of the judiciary. Isn't that a little illogical? You're nothing to blame, and I'm not putting a burden on you. When you look at a biography that is true, the shura biography, Nate Mesarović, could only be concluded at first sight that it is a candidate who has about 35 years of working experience and gradually all phases in the judicial system, from municipal to final and Supreme Court, but there are no other data. And it's not just for this candidate, it's for all the candidates we're talking about here today. Someone has touched this subject and no one can ask the question - what will the biographies do in front of the MPs? The MPs are making a final decision on this. Before this, there were some suggestions. Definitely here, the National Assembly will elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and a certain number of public prosecutors, and therefore the minimum that should have been done was to have some professional qualifications and what it proposes, that it qualified these candidates, that they were worthy of these functions, which we are talking about. Here it is said in one sentence or part of the sentence that Mrs. Nata Mesarovic has contributed in particular, and it does not say success, starting even from the first one, it seems to me that the First Municipal Court in Belgrade was, through all other courts, how many cases have been resolved, how much has been returned, what its success has been, but said -- has contributed in particular to the improvement of the co-operation of the Supreme Courts of the countries of the region and high court councils. How is that evidence? What does that mean to you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament? Is that in any way measurable? This is how many countries or how many high councils the judiciary has made good communication and what are the effects of helping Serbia's judicial system from its great activity. Now I would like to comment on the motions of these decisions on the election of public prosecutors. A reference to the candidate for the Republic Public Prosecutor is not needed in particular, as you heard from the presentation of the authorised representative of the SRS, Mr Zoran Krasic, that in expert circles at the District Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, very few deputy prosecutors are familiar with the candidate. The motion for a decision on the election of public prosecutors for the appeals public prosecutor's office; we have for Belgrade, we have for Kragujevac for Nis, and I ask you what about Novi Sad? Is it possible that, under today's law, you won't be solving this place? I can't help but comment on a candidate for a public prosecutor's appeal at the appeal public prosecutor's office in Kragujevac. That was the word here, but I certainly want to remind you of that and make my claim from the beginning of this story even more argumentative. That a policy has been introduced into the judiciary's branch and the executive authority has the dominant role shown by this candidate Nebojsa Budic, who was head of the National Office of the President of the Municipality of Prokuplje. I ask you, has any head of the office been a non-partisan person, if it is known that the director of the office of the President of the Republic was himself Mr Dragan Gilas, who is a prominent member of the DS and who is also the head of the Belgrade City Committee in the party? Will someone later, actually after my presentation, answer why we don't have a candidate for an appeal prosecutor in Novi Sad? Several fellow MPs spoke of territorial representation, i.e. candidates who applied in certain places, and I don't think anyone can answer this question, so it is said, if Bosko Ristic did not say so, we made a schedule based on the application of the candidates themselves. I know a few candidates, I'd say very high-quality, this conclusion of mine, my colleagues, it doesn't have to mean anything, that they've applied to all places and they're not here at all. Was it a previous agreement that a certain candidate from Požega, for example, I don't think I'm contesting this candidate's candidacy, competed in Valjevo? Did someone tell him before that - compete in Valjevo, and that's where you'll be admitted? Two candidates go from Valjev to Sabac, both to the General Prosecutor's Office and to the More Prosecutor's Office. At first I thought when I looked at this proposal that you wanted public prosecutors not to be in the place of residence, maybe it's a new EU standard, and then I saw that we have such candidates, they stay in places where they live, where they have a permanent place of residence. It's going to be about choosing these functions exactly the same. This state, I say responsibly, has exceptional judges and prosecutors, only executive power gives little chance of giving such a high quality. As you will explain, I am particularly talking to a few colleagues from the DS who are a lawyer, who are members of the Board of Administration and Justice, seven of them are lawyers, as Col. Verica Radeta said, as none of the prosecutors who have spent ten and more years in the prosecution so far, and not as prosecutors, as in the basic so far municipal and districtal, are now in the seats of the chiefs or, as it would say, prosecutors in the primary and senior courts. Do you know why they're not here? Because they're not DS members and no other reason. So Serbian citizens wouldn't think that only prosecutors would be those candidates who support or are DS supporters, because we know that they can't formally be party members, so that's not so. Those who have agreed to vote for the Statute of Vojvodina and the Law on determining jurisdiction, and belong to other political parties and other political options, have in turn asked for several of their candidates to go to those places. If you think about the law on law of law and a number of other questions may be asked about your irresponsibility in this area. Yes, and we are in favour of judicial reform, but this is absolutely the wrong way to implement reform in the area of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32505	17 minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. By applying Article 27 and on the basis of Article 88(2), I remind the MPs, participants in today's session, that so far no candidate has been challenged in the Rules of Procedure and that, if MPs wish to exercise their right to Article 181(3), that the challenge of candidates should be made to the Office with the Rules of Procedure so that they can approach the vote in a manner prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. So far, no candidates have been challenged. National MP Tomislav Nikolic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32506	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, since 5 October 2000, the prosecution and judges have been instigated, and what power in Serbia is thus changing judges and prosecutors. It is never good for her to have the authority before, even though they may have even participated in it in part, even though they may have even supported it. There are no fewer countries, and no more changes in the functions of judges and prosecutors than we do in our country, so we're about one or four sets of people ready to run for different reasons, or because they think they're professional and they don't want anyone to step on them, or because they've had a conversation with the municipal committees of parties in power. We've changed and each time we've chosen the most inexperienced, the younger and the more similar judges and prosecutors. This law, which has also been passed, that under the firm's alignment of our legal system with the Constitution of Serbia, courts are finally being built, is in fact an occasion for judges and prosecutors to be elected according to the current authority. I would like to be here now to oppose the choice of judges that could be said to be corrupt by rich people, criminals, that they will face the threat of mobs, organized crime, and that I do not think of as a MP to be afraid that someone will choose judges and prosecutors who are willing to be his political party. You see, out of those two fears is more of a fear that we will choose political-like judges than we will choose judges prone to bribe, corruption and crime. We have never had the habit of pleading on human resources, and we will not challenge you individually any choice because this just means that you will remain five minutes longer in the room to make a special statement about the candidate who was challenged, but something must be said at this time because it is an opportunity to remain recorded what anyone thinks about the state and who would arrange its legal, especially judicial system. Gentlemen, your constitutional deadline stands out, but not only for the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, but also for the election of judges. Under the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Constitution, Article 7 paragraph 1 - the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the first choice of judges of the Supreme Cassation Court are not divided at all. Imagine, we could call him President of the Supreme Cassation Court in construction, in formation. So, on no legal basis do we get the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Where's that court? Where are the judges of that court? Where are the cases in that court? They don't exist. The court doesn't exist. We're choosing the President of the Court. He's running out of time. The fact that we don't choose judges, that's what you don't care about. What's that judge's name and what's he gonna judge, we'll see. We didn't even know what was going on in the Supreme Court. We won't even know what's going on in the Supreme Cassation Court. But there's chaos in the courts, and that's what the promoter was supposed to tell us here honestly and openly, not only because of the lawyer's strikes, which are part of the judicial system, and which need to be talked about what it is against this government and whether it can be coordinated or not, but also because none of the 1,000 judges are sure they'll be re-elected. You have cases of both husband and wife being judges. Now you have a full legal basis to deprive them of their sources of income, and even if they couldn't go to that People's Office from which some prosecutors came, maybe even if they couldn't go to law school. And that's where you got involved. Today, everyone's starving in courts about what's gonna happen. The hearings are not being held today, and you may have the stalemate until March, April. God knows how long that's gonna take, because you've made a mess of justice. How do you see that there's chaos in the judiciary? Look at the Kragujevac. Is it possible that from three points of the agenda, for people who are elected in Kragujevac, the proposed candidates from Prokuplje, Svilinc and Jagodina arrive. I wasn't looking any further. I saw the nearest Bor, Majdanpek, Bor, Kladovov. Someone said Požega and Valjevo, let me say 60 kilometers and it's not much. I am really interested in what you have handled and why you do not appreciate us so much that you give us basic information about people who will decide on the fates of Serbian citizens and its legal order within a few days. Why don't we know how old they are? Where did they spend their working hours? Did DOS first ever choose them in some courts as trainees, and today they might be judges of the Supreme Cassation Court, for just five years of judicial practice? Why are you imposing a very clear dilemma on us, very well-founded, that these are all your judges and your prosecutors? How come we're fighting you? We want democratic methods, we want in one match of equal terms, when you have protection and prosecutors, judges, police, when you do what you want, when you have today a hundred machines on the Vozdovec that pave the way for no permission, without any approval, when you have most of the electoral commissions that make any decisions, that declare the lists without signing, when in this Serbia you have everything and everything, when every murder can be washed with money? For traffic violations so I don't talk. There's a whole mob of lawyers, judges and artists with whom anyone drunk, crazy, who killed a man to save his head and not go to jail. We have the judiciary on the lowest possible branches, and you who have run it for nine years now admit it. You said in 2000 we didn't do any good in the judiciary. You condemned judges who passed judgments under the law. You said that he must think carefully about the law that he is applying, which most in the congregation have passed. What should we tell the judges and prosecutors? You have a warning from the EU that this is a deal with judges and prosecutors and is preparing that no one in power is responsible for anything. What do we tell them? We're gonna change the law so we can replace you? We don't think of that in SNS. I'd like to send another message to those you choose today-to-morrow, for the other day, that the party's books are flawed, that they think about it being one of the most honorable occupations and return honor and pride to this judicial profession, the prosecution, to break their ties with criminals and the mob, to break their fears because they're called by some strong, to have the state give them full security. I'd like to see a state where judges wouldn't have to have security, a state where no one would dare attack a judge, a police officer, a prosecutor, so they get the longest time sentence right away, after a brief procedure. Not to make up war crimes to wash yourself around the world, but to find the greatest criminals possible. Now I'm asking these people who will be elected to the highest prosecutor's office to prepare for ten cases that you won't be allowed to launch. I promise them, against whatever these items are, after the shift the authorities will be able to do their job. Now I publicly invite them, and them to do so and the judges to have the courage to judge by law, to be equal to you all. I'm a witness, the strangers I led to last year were offered to give the names of candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, so we refused. We don't care about that. We don't need judges. None of us were then, nor is he on any charge or that he committed any crime. I'd like to ask, Mrs. Comic, I really have no intention of polluting with the MPs. So the judges have one job, prosecutors the other, and we have politicians the third. It's no accident we're not mixed up, we're separated from each other. Prosecutors aren't independent, but they're independent. In your time, since 2001, you've been pressing charges against prosecutors who haven't acted on any case. If the government says you act as a prosecutor, he's free of it because he doesn't think there are any elements. She's made power. It also means that she ordered and did not act when he thought she had the elements, to put it in the drawer. I was involved in a court trial that was outdated because he wanted the court so badly and it was the best way to wash the blame of the one I sued. It's an out-of-date subject. They transferred each other, failed. You know how it goes. I didn't get the right satisfaction. I'm partly right, I'm not right, because the court wouldn't give it to me. He didn't want to judge by law. He didn't want to judge, because he'd have to judge in my favor. That would be about this election. (The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, from the place: Mandates. () As for the mandate, when you win 5%, my dear friends, you will also have mandates.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32507	Eleven minutes and 50 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP Nenad Konstantinovic, followed by MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32508	The Honorable Chairman, Comic, the Honorable Representative of the High Council of the Judiciary, the Honorable Representative of the Government, is very pleased that I, as an MP, can participate in the concrete implementation of this large project, which is the reform of the judiciary that we started by adopting a set of judicial laws at the end of 2008. We heard a lot today in this room from opposition representatives that these laws are not good and are not in accordance with the Constitution, or not according to European standards. That's absolutely not true. I'd like to remind you that the set of judicial laws evaluated the OSCE and gave a positive assessment. I would like to remind you that this set of judicial laws went before the Constitutional Court on the proposal of the Serbian Society of Judges and received an absolutely positive assessment, i.e. that they were in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and it happened in July. So it's not true what our colleague from the DSS says that that answer never arrived. And what I can say is that the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors developed criteria for the election and prosecutors and judges and these criteria went to check at the Venice Commission, which gave a positive answer regarding the criteria and criteria for selecting the bearers of the highest judicial functions. Therefore, the choice of prosecutors and the choice of judges under way is absolutely in line with European standards and by the criteria prescribed by the State's Major Prosecutors and the High Council of the judiciary. We've heard a lot about the executive power being involved in this election and that the executive power interferes with the judiciary. I believe that's because the colleagues who talked about it have been used to this kind of work in the past period, so until 2008, and they're probably used to affecting the choice of judges and the choice of prosecutors, and that's beyond doubt. We had such a case in 2004, when the said prosecutor, Nebojsa Budic, was removed from the post as a district prosecutor in Prokuplje, apparently for purely political reasons, and regardless of some criteria of expertise and dignity. It is not easy for everyone to realize that a new time has come and that the executive power cannot interfere with the choice of judicial holders anymore. We have made it very clear and concrete in these laws. I don't know where the idea of someone honoring the government that the government had interfered with something and that the executive authority had interfered with something, when, before us, as MPs in the Assembly, there were proposals made by the State's greater prosecutors and the High Council of the judiciary. It is obvious that, even with regard to the proposal of the State Council of Prosecutors, the proposal has only passed on to us in the Assembly, without interference, without any change, and without any challenge from those candidates granted by the State's greater prosecutors. Let's remind the citizens again what that means. The state's major prosecutor is an authority dealing with the election and proposal of prosecutors. It is defined in the law, although the Constitution does not define it, and it is largely made by prosecutors themselves. So it's the profession that proposed candidates for prosecutors, not politics. He's seven prosecutors from 11 members of the State Council of Prosecutors. One is the minister of justice, one is the chairman of the Justice Committee, one is a professor of Law School, Mr. Škulic is elected, and one should be the president of the Bar Association, which was not elected because the Assembly did not want to elect a candidate. Twice there was a choice in the Assembly, in front of MPs, for a member of the State Council of Prosecutors and did not pass – as it was said here, he received one vote. So the assembly did not consider it, and neither did the majority, nor did the minority, receive one vote of 250 possible votes, and therefore that member was not elected. But that doesn't mean that the whole process of electing prosecutors should stand and wait for the Bar Association to perhaps propose another candidate, who would eventually be elected. The choice was made absolutely according to the criteria. The criteria are expertise and consistency and fully in accordance with the law, Constitution and constitutional law. As far as the deadlines are concerned, you probably know, they're instructions, all the deadlines they give. So it's not a deadline that if you miss something you can't change. I think we will absolutely meet all the deadlines and that the State's Chief Prosecutors and the High Council of the judiciary will propose and announce who the other judges are and who the deputies are in the next 15 days. That choice is not being made in the Assembly. So we expect the State Council and the Supreme Council to announce it in the next two weeks, so that the entire system can be prepared for 1 January 2010. It's actually the only significant deadline. It is due to begin the reformed judiciary on 1 January 2010. As for the individuals who are here, without any reason, tried to be challenged, and I would like to express my satisfaction, and this also shows the maturity of all MPs in the Serbian Parliament, which is because nobody is really challenged. So those proposals that came from the State Council and the proposal for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court are not officially challenged either by the Justice Committee, but unanimously supported, and not challenged by the MPs in the Assembly, and that's good. So the State Council did a good thing for us. But let me say for those who tried to challenge, which is, above all, Zagorka Dolovac, a candidate for the Republic Public Prosecutor. Zagorka Dolovac is the person who led the Belgrade District Prosecutor's Office in the past period. And it is also known in Belgrade circles, given that it has raised levels and quality, and the reputation of the Belgrade District Prosecutor's Office. She is the woman who is the most responsible that for the first time in history the U.S. judiciary has accepted to give up an object that was started there to be led before our court in Belgrade. She's the person who filed for the confiscation of assets suspected of carrying out certain crimes of enormous value. So 30 objects, i.e. The house, apartments and locals, at the request of Zagorka Dolovac, is taken from criminals. You all know the case of Uskokovic and 12 apartments. The land worth more than 15m euros should be seized at its request. She is very responsible for the procession of those who beat up the French fan Bris Taton. Therefore, a person who, in his knowledge, expertise and dignity is absolutely qualified for the Republic Public Prosecutor. The prosecution of organised crime and war crimes has finally become a private prosecutor's office. I can say that's the healthiest and best part of our judiciary. Responsible for the prosecution of war crimes prosecuted over 400 people, over 106 accused them, and you can compare with the UN tribunal, which in 15 years has accused 161 persons. In all European Commission reports, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office was praised by Vladimir Vukcevic, who is a candidate for war crimes prosecutor. Miljko Radosavljevic, prosecutor for organised crime, is well-known here from the case of Yotka, which he worked, responsible for two and a half tons of drugs being seized in South America. In addition, his results show that more than a ton of drugs have been seized in Serbia. So, all thanks to the work of the prosecutor for organised crime, Miljak Radisavljevic. All MPs should absolutely leave this choice to those who are from the prosecution and who are from the court, and that we should not spoil this election with some political comments, but to accept, as the Government has accepted, what the State's Major Prosecutors have proposed and what the High Council of the Judiciary has proposed, and to declare unitedly, and the position and opposition, the candidates who come from the judiciary and thus show that politics will absolutely never have an impact on the judiciary again and that neither the executive nor the legislative authority will have any influence on the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32509	Ten minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? (Greto Peric, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. National MP Zoran Babic has a word after him, MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32510	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the decision to elect public prosecutors for the General Public Prosecutor's Office and the decision to elect public prosecutors for the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office looks like you're playing. Besides, that's your relationship with other important decisions and laws that are being made. It's as if you've taken two lottery drums, so you've pulled out the names and last names of the public prosecutors from one of them, and the second drum is the prosecution's seat, which is why we have a situation in which a judge from Triestenik is elected as the prosecutor in Novi Pazar. This is how you make these decisions a mess in the Serbian judiciary. Perhaps when you formed these decisions, you copied the patent of Minister Mladjan Dinkic, who said that people would be selected for bankruptcy managers under a special computer program. Even in the amendments and additions to the Law on the bankruptcy procedure, you predicted that a bankruptcy administrator could be a person sentenced to a prison sentence of up to five years. That's how I assume you look at the dignity of individual functions. Such decisions, I'm sure, will not contribute to efficiency in the Serbian judiciary. In these decisions you did not include any specificities of municipalities and cities, as soon as you mixed up district or municipal public prosecutors like this. In the reasons for making these decisions, you stated that for all the candidates declared who meet the requirements laid down by law, the procedure for determining the expertise, competence and dignity has been implemented. Who made that determination? Based on what? Is this ability, or expertise, understood by yellow? I'm sure it is. If you've established your expertise and dignity, why didn't you also give the biographies of the proposed prosecutors, or the proposed candidates for prosecutors? All these decisions are hidden behind the words "reform of the judiciary and independence of the prosecution and the judiciary". How much do you think the judiciary in Serbia should be independent, says an interview President Boris Tadic gave for one television with a national frequency, between two rounds of presidential elections last February. I will try to paraphrasise, he said he generously offered Mr Tomislav Nikolic to propose some of the Supreme Court judges and to be surprised by the fact that Mr Nikolic refused such an offer. Of course he refused and of course we will always refuse, because we essentially think that Serbia's judiciary should be independent. These decisions have been protruded by politics and light years away from independence, expertise and dignity, and of course the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group -- the Progressive Group will vote against these decisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32511	Three minutes and ten seconds used by the MP's group. The word has been given by MP Mirko Munjic, followed by MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32512	Ladies and gentlemen, in my presentation, I will speak exclusively of the motion for a decision on the election of public prosecutors in the main public prosecutor's office. Given that at the end of my presentation, and I will point out that in the beginning, I would ask that the choice of one judge from this list be challenged, so, from the list of decisions on the election of public prosecutors in the main public prosecutors, I would ask those who are competent and most relevant to hear what I am about to say, especially in view of the circumstances that the judge who is proposed for the primary prosecutor's election in Požega has an indication, i.e. the basis of the suspicion that she committed a crime, and I would say that very quickly, without intending to prejudge the matter, it will be a reasonable suspicion. Before that, I'm just going to read part of the reason for making this decision. On the basis of Article 124. The rules, you say, on the criteria and criteria for the assessment of the expertise, the competence and dignity of candidates for public prosecutors, the expertise, the competence and dignity of candidates from other bodies and organisations were established on the basis of data and opinions obtained by the authorities and organisations in which the candidate worked in the legal profession, whose opinion contains the assessment of the expertise, the competence and dignity of the candidates in the performance of the entrusted tasks, and for candidates who are judges and judicial assistants of the State's major prosecutors, have obtained an opinion from the President of the court in which he works. Ladies and gentlemen, in this decision that you are asking MPs in the assembly to decide on the election of public prosecutors in the primary and public prosecutor's office, under 22, there is also a name for a public prosecutor in the primary prosecutor's office in Požega. It says – Jelena Curcic, judge at the municipal court in Guca, is elected. Mr. Ristic, if you're here, I'd like you to listen very carefully to what I'm about to say. Judge Jelena Curcic is president of the Electoral Commission in So Luciana. As an authorised representative of the SRS, I have submitted to her, as President of the Election Commission, documentation relevant for the election, or for the appointment of one committee, along with documentation which you can see here, which is the decision of the District Court to file that document, the written consent of the candidates to accept the mandate and the authority of the applicant of the list to be able to submit this documentation. What happens after this, ladies and gentlemen? The electoral commission has decided to assign the mandate to a completely different person on the proposal of another unauthorized person. But what decision does Judge Jelena Turkey make? He's making a decision without holding a session of the Electoral Commission. When we saw what was done, in the capacity of the authorised representative, I go to Judge Jelena Curcic, and I present to her the necessary documentation that I submitted on September 11th of this year for the election of the board. After five minutes of reviewing the file by this judge, she ran out of words and literally told me – after this I can only kill myself. Twice, twice she told me that. She goes on to say -- they made me a decision written, they made me a written decision here in court, and they told me that everything was fine, and as President of the Election Commission, I signed that decision. In addition to that decision, I signed another decision to elect one SPS board member. To make the accident bigger, Judge Jelena Curcic tells me on that occasion – besides this, I have replaced seven or eight committees in the same way so far, without holding a session of the Electoral Commission. Seven or eight councilmen were replaced without holding the Election Commission! Ladies and gentlemen, she's been told everything's fine. I'm not going into whether a judge named Jelena Curcic, who you're proposing here for a public prosecutor's election, was deceived, however, as a judge of the Municipal Court, I'm sure she knew and had to know that the decision couldn't be made without a session, that eight decisions could not be made without holding eight sessions of the Electoral Commission, and she did so, ladies and gentlemen. She did it, and I'm saying that in this case and in seven cases, she's committed a crime every time. Seven or eight councilmen, ladies and gentlemen, are in SO Luciana sitting there in So Luciana, making decisions after their illegal election. She also told me, and I saw what happened from the file. When I handed over this paper along with the documentation, along with this seal of admission to the Electoral Commission, gentlemen, three days later, the President of the Luciani Assembly took the paperwork, took it to his office and held it in the drawer until 29.10, the 30th session of the Assembly of the Municipality. He's hiding the paperwork until then. After that, there is a decision on the election of the board. The Electoral Commission's decision is sent to Judge Jeleni Curcic, this one signes the decision, returns the decision, and the committee is elected by So Luciana on the basis of that decision the next day. Look at the crime. This judge should be elected to this very important function. Ladies and gentlemen, on 14.11. Judge Jelena Curcic takes the documentation I submitted to the Electoral Commission, and you remember I said, the decision was made on 30.10. Fifteen days after making a decision without holding a session, she was just taking the paperwork when I told her what she did. There's a signature that she took the paperwork back then. When I saw what happened, it was normal that I wanted the evidence for this. Although I can tell you now, I'm going to give you all this evidence. All of them exist, however, before presenting this evidence to you now, I can say that in any capacity I am willing to say and present this to the public prosecutor, before the investigating judge and anywhere, but beware of any property, witnesses, which I believe should or even in any other capacity if the public prosecutor suspects what I'm saying. Not using, here I am now saying here in front of you, not using my parliamentary immunity. After that, I wrote letters to the secretary of the electoral commission, the deputy secretary of the electoral commission and all the members of the electoral commission, wanting to see if this judge really did what she did. Did she make such a decision without holding a session of the electoral commission? I get from the secretary of the electoral commission, Jovkovic Ratko, who is also the lawyer in SO Luciana, that he has nothing to do with this, with making such a decision, or preparing a session, nor was the session held. I get from Milosavljevic Zoran, deputy secretary of the electoral commission, also a letter of similar content. After that, I get from other members and deputies of the electoral commission, from most members and deputies of the electoral commission a letter saying that under criminal and material responsibility, with their signature, they claim they have nothing to do with this election commission decision, which means that indeed, without a meeting, without a session of the electoral commission, such an illegal decision has been made. What after all this? This time I want not to address, in the end, but to appeal to the consciousness and conscience of all those who participate in making these decisions. If you've already said, I don't want to doubt any moment of your honesty, if you said you wanted to make absolutely legal decisions, I'm giving you one possibility of what you should do. Please, before making a decision, Mrs. Kolundzija and Mr. Ristic, to make a legitimate and correct decision, consult, for example, your head of the parliamentary group in the municipality of Luciana. We are diametrically opposite and we differ, if he tells you that one word of this is not true what I said, I am prepared to withdraw all of this, to apologize to all of you for what I said. It's really like this my proposal, so you have one legitimate and correct, and a normal decision, believe me. I don't think it's an impossible mission, that it's easy to do. I can also present evidence that it's all like that. If you want to go into illegality, if you want to be representatives of the majority, to make such a decision here and to make a decision that is absolutely illegal, then do it. If I were to be maligned, or if I were to look at narrow party interests, maybe this way I wouldn't say it right now. I'd wait for you to pick that lady. I'd wait for you to pick her and then, I had an argument for a year, two, three, five, while there's a court and while this House is here, I'll tell you about this. I'm telling you, don't go into illegality. You have time, check everything I said, and I'm saying, if all of this isn't true, I'm going to apologize to everyone in public.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32513	Time used by the MP for 13 minutes and 55 seconds. The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32514	I'm reporting as chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, and I want to say that the Justice Committee has been the place where the proposed candidates are challenged. Please, wait, you'll get and you'll hear my attitude. Anyway, I'm willing to hear any objections about the behavior and dignity of every proposed candidate. Unfortunately, we didn't get any evidence and argument here that we could solidify our position, positive or negative, against these candidates. The state's chief prosecutor is also monitoring the work of every candidate, or elected prosecutor, so if any action is initiated that points to unworthyness and unprofessionalness in the conduct and performance of public office, the state's larger prosecutors will surely respond. There is no special relationship with any of the candidates, to be protected and amnesty from illegal conduct, if that is indeed what has happened. I am prepared to take over all documents and any evidence that a fellow MP may have and to present in my work to the State Council of Prosecutors, so that he will enter into a statement on candidates, but also on those who have already been elected, so that no one will remain protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32515	The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word. Replica? You have no right to a replica. Please don't throw it away. If I have to remind you in what conditions and under what business terms you get the right to replica, it's not hard for me. Please do not violate the Rules of Procedure by throwing and violating Article 104. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. After that, the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32516	Out of respect for Mrs. Belobabi, from the fact that it is 20.00 hours and we have been working since this morning, and expressing our gratitude to Mrs. Gordani Comic, who gave me the right to reply on Friday, although I had no right to do so, I will give up my discussion. I think we've said enough, hoping to finish as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32517	Thank you. The People's Parliament of the Witch of Radeta. After that, MP Petar Jojic, who was last registered on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32518	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the way these solutions were proposed, I would say, for the most significant functions in the country and the way this is discussed is scandalous. The fact that we're talking about this without direct TV transmission is also scandalous, and of course you've come up with all of this so well, and you've made it all quite clear that as few people as possible in some hours late as possible can hear what the MPs have to say about these proposals as concrete as well as the way they propose and the way they work and the committee, and this Parliament, and the State Council of the Judiciary, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all of whom are involved in one or another on the basis of the law in this job. We didn't get an answer to a question from fellow Ristic, nor from the minister who came out, nor from Mrs. Belobaba -- who made you suffer that we're coming back to tea, to throw this session back in, I guess this is the third stop of that session that, more and more, we forgot when it started, and why is this job ending tonight, now eight hours, and the deadline under the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to choose people for these extremely important, some even the most important functions in the country, expires at midnight? This has become a moderation of work of this regime. Then it rushes back-to-back. Nobody cares about the procedure, the constitution, the law, and then we just don't understand why, you get angry when we draw attention to something like that, and then Mrs. Comic won't even allow herself to replicate. I'm just asking you not to interrupt me and explain to me when you're giving me a replica, we've learned that, but it was really amazing that a colleague of Munjic couldn't talk to his colleague, Ristic, and his colleague, Ristic, asked for the communication of that kind, but unfortunately, he couldn't make it happen. I also want to draw attention to the fact that you didn't finish this job. Comrade Ristic, where are your proposals for a prosecutor in Vranj, both in the Home Office and the D.A.'s Office? How are these prosecutions going to work when we don't have, within the time limit set by the Constitutional Law, solved that question? Where's your proposal for the General Prosecutor's Office in Kosovo Mitrovica? How will the main prosecutor's office in Kosovo Mitrovica work? Where's your proposal for the General Prosecutor's Office in Loznica? Comrade Sreta Peric spoke, where is your Court of Appeal in Novi Sad? Are you aware that by now, by making this decision, even if you make it by midnight, you are breaking this law and continuing the chaos in the judiciary that has existed for a year, with fear of what you call judicial reform? Then Mrs Malovic, who is not here today, who should be, no matter what work, more important than today, had no and should not have, referred to a public statement to the Serbian citizens and begged for understanding because the judiciary would not function in December and January, and she sincerely hopes to function normally in February. You did not promise such a reform, and you should not have allowed it in any way. It's not possible that you couldn't, those who are in charge of the judiciary and people who work there, physically transfer objects, because every day we read in the press that the biggest problem is to physically transfer objects from one building to another, as if they were all going to be taken into work, so the problem is that two months are transferred objects from one building to another. Of course, that's not the reason, that's why we've been telling you for a year, that you're not ready for this kind of reform, that these reforms are very bad, that these are drastic cuts and that no one in the state of Serbia will be better, no judges, no prosecutors, no citizens, no lawyers, no witches, no witnesses, no interpreters, no judicial administration. So, absolutely no one who has anything to do with the judiciary will be better. We heard the minister explain, when he was responding to a fellow who made a remark, it was a reasoned remark, in a way why you were from one place to another, and that it would cause certain costs, etc., and then the minister, so significant, said there would be no new costs because there would be no new costs in the judiciary to be saved on 2,500 thousand layoffs. This is truly amazing, which is the relationship between you and the regime, your relationship with the citizens of Serbia. You're proud of what our people's proverb says, which is a clever thing to be ashamed of. You're proud of the fact that from law to law you leave, now with these 2,500 people, it's only going to be from the state budget somewhere around 13-14 thousand people you're going to leave without a job. You should be aware that it means so many families, because a lot of people who are in the judiciary and husband and wife, and maybe they'll both get fired, because you obviously do this job without criteria. The minister boasted that the government was not considering these proposals but rather that she was discussing such jutura. Maybe they didn't have time, they're probably still arguing about the budget, since we don't have a budget proposal, even though it should have been more than a year ago in parliament. It's not something the government can be proud of. We were particularly shocked when counterpart Konstantinovic suggested that we do not discuss here, that we do not use what the Rules of Procedure tells us, that we do not dispute any proposal, but that we vote like this, to trust Bosca Ristic, to trust Nati Mesarovic, to trust Snezani Malovic and others who are members or the High Council of the judiciary or the State Council of Prosecutors. Unfortunately, we can't trust you because you haven't proved by any chance that you deserve to be trusted. I'll remind you, Mr. Ristic, on Friday, around 2:00 p.m. on the phone, we've been informed that the Justice and Administration Committee, with this agenda, will be held at 7:30 p.m. Friday, and that we will receive material in the MP offices. We waited until 1920 hours, we didn't get the material. You're saying now - we should've come and made some remarks, and by 1920, we didn't have a paper on which to write the proposals that were sent to the Committee. Then we sent an officer from the parliamentary group to bring us finally, we barely asked those suggestions and of course it didn't occur to us, we don't want to be your toy, to look at it in 10 minutes and come to discuss it. You then, while there was a direct transmission, you say the Justice and Administration Committee unanimously accepted these proposals. It's not "thank God," counterpart Ristic, on the board were just representatives of the government, provided you had a quorum, and that's a special story, since you didn't have anyone to control it. So, there's no minister to give us answers that are criteria, Mrs. Belobaba needs to know, based on which 2,500 people in the judiciary are going to be out of work, about 1,100 of which are the prosecutors, what judge? I appreciate you sitting here, it's your obligation, and I just thought they'd give you the medal because you came to the parliament, because Nata Mesarovic sent you to praise her a little bit. We Serbian radicals ask you to engage in this debate and tell us what criteria you have used, because you already know, you know who the people, who the judges have lost their jobs and who the prosecutors have lost their jobs. In addition to publishing those names, we're asking you to tell us what the criteria were on which you left over a thousand people out of work, only from the ranks of judges and prosecutors, of course, about a thousand and a half more from the judiciary? You have also tried to make this extremely important state business of parliament just a flow boiler, that order works, as Konstantinovic said, we trust someone there and that we do not look around at who is here, to vote for, and quite certainly that "the official messenger" is already printed and has already been distributed, just waiting to get out of here - yes, it was 126 for, let it go and let these people into their new functions. I repeat, you have several prosecutions that have remained uncovered by this decision of yours. The special story is that this job has also worked and incompletely the State's Major Prosecutors, and the incomplete High Council of the Judiciary, as is our incomplete Constitutional Court, and it's amazing that, I don't know, one of the colleagues in the ruling majority has commented, that what we're doing here doesn't say that everyone has to be elected to the High Council of the Judiciary, and to the State Greater Prosecutors, then of course, you mean the Constitutional Court. We think he has to. If it says in the law, or in the Constitution, and in the law, who does everything these two bodies, then it has to be so, because you might have someone who's not really in the mood to listen blindly to the orders of the DS Central, which is why he didn't answer you and that's why you've been working with these back bodies. We're putting that really as a big remark to you. When it comes to these candidates that we should say something about, we ask a question -- what do we really know about these people? I think this is the fourth time I've ever been a member of the Justice and Management Committee, never happened to discuss any proposals for judges or prosecutors, and we don't have any kind of documentation, some kind of personal biography, some kind of working biography, success in the business. This is how you were doing cowboys in 2000, and after 2000, we managed to fight to really have some basic parameters so that we could say, well, this is a good choice for you, but we don't have those kind of parameters. Says colleague Vlatko Ratkovic - there are biographies behind these people. Now I'm asking-- why don't we have those biographies? Why is colleague Vlatko Ratkovic or seven DS lawyers from your parliamentary group, why are you privileged to have biographies without us having them? What are you hiding from the MPs and what are you hiding from the citizens of Serbia? This is too serious for you to be able to debate this unseriously, or rather say that you are not at all discussing it, but only to run and vote, to catch the time, not to move on to tomorrow. We don't know how many of these candidates worked here, how they did it. We know what they were doing, it says where they come from, but how did they do their job? Are these candidates, mentioned by counterpart Krasic, former agricultural cooperative secretaries? Did they, meanwhile, become professional enough to be able to perform these extremely significant state functions? We have nothing against people who are secretaries of farming cooperatives, but with that experience, they couldn't have been judges the way you set them up in 2001. Says the minister -- the government hasn't been involved in these proposals. Then I found it interesting -- how does the minister, when he was answering his colleagues to Srdjan Spasojevic, know a lot of details? If the government didn't engage, as he says, that only the government literally said -- well, we trust these people, we're going to vote this way in a package for these proposals, how come the Minister of So many details he's brought here? What isn't true - either that the government wasn't getting on, or only some ministers were getting on, maybe just those of the DS? That's what we should get an answer to. The minister insulted you in the most harsh way, and that is your manner, so did Snezana Malovic, the people who live in small places. He says the minister has experience and as a lawyer, that the worst trials are in a small place. That's really very offensive. It was also an argument by Snezani Malovic when she explained here why she abolished courts in some smaller places. You can't insult people like that, on the one hand. On the other hand, if these people were bad and they were the worst trials in these small places, how come these people can come from a small place? What is a guarantee if it was bad, and you said, Minister Milan Markovic said they were bad, if they were bad in those small places, what is the guarantee that they will be better when they come to a big place? If you follow that logic, if you think it's not good, you're running the wrong demographic policy. You act like you don't think when you say something that basically means something. You, instead of in all sorts of ways, are encouraging that when people graduate from colleges at some major university center, to create conditions for them to return to their smaller places, you accuse them of being unable to work there, that they are corrupt, corrupt, etc. According to that logic, you should make out of all the small places an education workers, doctors, cops, government employees, if you don't think people are moral enough to be able to work in the place where they were born. On the contrary, if anyone returns to his small place of origin, he will show just how moral he is, and how unpurchased he is, and how much he cares that he does not defile his face and his family, because that is where both his ancestors and his descendants live. I'm afraid you don't take care of it. Now, in accordance with Article 181(3), I would like to talk about some concrete proposals. First, a few sentences about Mrs. Nati Mesarovic. Mrs. Nata Mesarovic became known in public for that famous sentence: "We have received a verdict". You, as hard as you try, can't erase it from the memory of the public, because that verdict is publicly spoken, remember? Since we don't have anything on Nata Mesarevic, to say some biography, and it doesn't exist, I just don't see here whether her son is still the judge of the Fourth Municipal Court? Do you think, Mrs. Belobaba and you colleagues who will vote for this, that it is moral, that there is no conflict of interest, that the son of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court may be a judge in any court in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Of course, we have never advocated, even the opposite, that if someone has a parent position, that someone should totally freeze or put their professional career aside, etc. Must prove it somewhere else. The simple question, how will it react, is that you are the judge of the District Court in Novi Sad, very likely, because you praise Nata Mesarovic nicely, that you will be in the Supreme Court, I have no objection, but I ask you how would you behave as an object of appeal in which Nate Mesarovic's son was tried? It's just not delicious. That doesn't stand here in Nate Mesarovic's biography. It stands when she was elected judge, when for the District Court judge, then in April 2003 as Supreme Court judge. I have to tell you that there are those of us who know Natu Mesarovic here for 20 years and, believe me, her colleagues from the Fourth Court and later from the District Court were quite shocked when Nata Mesarovic was elected Judge of the Supreme Court. (Zoran Krasic, from the scene: she was surprised too. Yes, colleague Krasic, and she was surprised. That's exactly how she reacted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32519	Mr. Krasic, don't throw it away. Disturb the atmosphere.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32520	Why is it disrupting the atmosphere?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32521	Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32522	Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, this is called a disturbance of the atmosphere and interruption of the course of debate, and now I don't know how much time I have. I'd like you to tell me that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32523	You have 12 minutes and 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32524	Thank you very much. Enough. Why is Nata Mesarovic referred here to the Special Department of the District Court in Belgrade for Organized Crime? To be clear, it is a public secret in Belgrade, that no judges have been sent. These were discussions between judges who were willing to accept the job for then three times the salary, later it was reduced to twice the salary. There were no criteria. There were literally agreements between some of the executives and judges, and thus the judges, this does not only apply to Nata Mesarovic but to everyone who went to these special departments. We therefore dispute this proposal in accordance with Rule 181 of our Rules of Procedure. When it comes to Zagorka Dolovac, they commended here a woman for what she was responsible for, not guilty or in debt. However, there is nothing concrete about her biography in this proposal. It says – establishing the expertise, competence and dignity of candidates in the order of the deputy public prosecutors who reported the ad for the election of a public prosecutor has been carried out in accordance with Article 26. Regulation on criteria, etc. And what other people have come forward? Are we ever going to find out which mile, from which circle of people you in the State Council of Prosecutors chose Zagorka Dolovac? Maybe she's good, but maybe she's not the best. Why don't we have information on who the competitors were, who was the competition of Mrs. Zagorki Dolovac, and is it recommended that she be commended here that she did a great job in applying this regime's law on temporary confiscation of property? You say here on the basis of Article 29. The rules, etc., on the dignity of candidates for public prosecutorial office holders, each public prosecutor's college, on the basis of the results of the survey, produced a report and submitted a report to the State's chief prosecutor, an assessment of the expertise and competence of the candidates for the public prosecutor's office. We're interested in what grade Zagorka Dolovac got, and what grade did the other candidates get, if any? Further, starting with this, the state's major prosecutor found that Zagorka Dolovac, a candidate, etc. It has a high level of ability to manage, providing proper, accurate, timely, impartial and legal work by public prosecutors, and has been established to possess a prominent capacity to oversee deputy public prosecutors. Here you've just copied it from that rule and from the law, there's nothing concrete here. What about Radovanovic? Are we ever going to find out if he's competing, what you're putting on his soul, are you agreeing with us when it comes to his failures and his malfeasances? Are we ever going to discuss it or are we just going to replace Zagorka Dolovac and wait for another chance and replace Zagorka Dolovac again? Miljko Radisavljevic and Vladimir Vukcevic. We really need to look back at these two names and challenge each other. What Miljko Radisavljevic did as a special prosecutor for the fight against organised crime, we Serbian radicals think it is not enough. Something's happened, but as long as you don't start cleaning fish off your heads, you've done nothing. Here we heard how many drugs were seized thanks to Miljak Radisavljevic in America, so how many tons in Serbia. One logical question arises – why are there so many drugs on the streets of Serbia again? Why isn't this job done to the end? We think that you are only doing this marketingly and that for this purpose you are using Mr. Miljko Radisavljevic, and that in the state of Serbia, in the Boris Tadic regime, there is no serious intention, no serious will to stand in the way of organised crime, and therefore you need a prosecutor who is willing to work by order - now do so much, now stop, do so much. That's why we're contesting his proposal. When it comes to Vladimir Vukcevic, of course we dispute this proposal. The extent of his indictment in this special court is generally known, but his fellow praisers did not tell us what he did on the prosecution of war criminals or war crimes suspects against Serbs, what he did in communication with the cantonal prosecutors in BiH, with the state prosecutor's office in Croatia, where criminal charges are, where the proceedings for all those crimes, crimes, war crimes against tens of thousands of Serbs in Sarajevo, in Republika Srpska. There's no sign of that. That's why we're opposed to this Vukcevic still being in this place. We didn't get an answer to the question why we don't have an appeal public prosecutor for the New Sad Appealal Prosecutor's Office and we didn't get an answer to the question of how the appeals prosecution would function if you didn't pick one out of four. What's the problem? Is that the problem of one of your conflicts, such as Vranje and Loznica? For Nebojsa Budic, mentioned by his colleague Krasic, but they say he did not explicitly say that I was contesting him, so here I am. The best argument that this name should be challenged was given by counterpart Nenad Konstantinovic, who said Nebojsa Budic was illegally removed, I think in 2004. Imagine then he got a job at the National Office of the President of the Municipality of Prokuplje. Where will you get more proof that the judiciary won't be after this independent of the executive and, of course, of course, of the DS? When it comes to the basic public prosecutor's office, we haven't been able to get the files and the data for all these proposals, which is why you gave it to us on Friday at 7:20 p.m., but what you heard about Mrs. Jelena Curcic of Mirko Munjic, I think the woman is really mature for Miljko Radisavljevic, because this really has a pattern of organised crime, what she was doing there. When it comes to the basic prosecution, you say again -- according to the state's chief prosecutor's opinions, considering each individual application and opinion, it gave a final assessment of the expertise. The question we're asking again -- who's competing everything, why these, and why not some others, because you didn't write us that these are the best? Maybe they are, but we just want proof that they're the best. What if there's still some like Jelena Turkey? Will you do justice reform this way? You're saying it's been established that everyone has a prominent ability to control the deputy attorney general. This is very interesting, because you just copied it. You haven't seen what you're writing. These proposed candidates, 90% of them were deputy public prosecutors. Then how did you determine that everyone had a prominent capacity to oversee the deputy attorney general? Could they have controlled the deputies from some other D.A.'s office by order of the DS? When it comes to almost time, you will allow us to further dispute some proposals on the election of public prosecutors to the senior public prosecutor's office, first of all a proposal relating to Milan Bigovic for more Public Prosecutor's Office in Kosovo Mitrovica. This is also the DS code. It is evidence that in the Kosovo Mitrovica municipality, at the time of DS there, he was working under a contract of action. Aleksandar Petrovic, whom you are proposing for the More Public Prosecutor's Office in Kragujevac, I am informing you of my colleague Ristic, perhaps you did not know that, was suspended, had many private lawsuits with his colleagues, was a conflicting personality and with him in Svilinc, where he worked, there were major problems. So this name is being challenged too. We dispute Stanislav Dukic for a proposal for a more public prosecutor's office in Novi Pazar for one single reason, which is the man's lawyer. Again, not because of him, but because it's amazing that 600 prosecutors and deputies will be out of work, and 600 of them have not found another one that would be good enough to be a public prosecutor in the More Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar. We are contesting Gordana Čolić, because this is the documentation relating to Gordana Colic and sent to the Republic Secretary of State Slobodan Home, State Council of Prosecutors, Republic V.d. Public prosecutor. No one's been paying attention to all this paperwork, but in return for the lady from the Third District Attorney's Office, I guess she's getting away from the eyes of those who wrote all this, going to the More Public Prosecutor's Office in Panchev. We have another motion to challenge...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32525	Mrs. Radeta, time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32526	Snezana Stamenkovic is also being challenged.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-30-0.u32527	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if anyone who has not applied his right to Article 93 wants the word. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint single investigation into the draft decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court; the motion for a decision on the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor; the motion for a decision on the election of prosecutors in the Prosecutor's Office of Special Jurisdiction; the motion for a decision on the selection of public prosecutors for the public prosecutor's office; the proposal for a decision on the selection of public prosecutors in the main public prosecutor's office. Having conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motions for decisions. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Monday, November 30th, 2009, starting at 20.45pm, as the day for voting on the agenda points of the 5th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. So in 15 to 20 minutes we'll start voting. There is a possibility of 15 minutes of waiting, according to the Rules of Procedure. [[After break – 20.55]] According to Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the session. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 128 MPs in the hall, or more than 126, and there are working conditions. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision to elect the president of the Supreme Casacio Court since the National Assembly carried out a single search, and before we move to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 12. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is decided by the National Assembly by the majority of the votes of all MPs to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. I note that MP Verica Radeta has challenged Nate Mesarovic's election as president of the Supreme Cassation Court during a single search. Since the proposal for a decision proposes one candidate, pursuant to Article 181(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision in general. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court as a whole. Of the 135 MPs, 133 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Let me congratulate Mrs. Nati Mesarovic on the election of President of the Supreme Cassation Court and wish her a lot of success in her work. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE CHOICE OF THE REPUBLIC PUBLIC PROGRAMME Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before we move to a decision, I visit that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 12. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor. I note that MP Verica Radeta has challenged Zagorka Dolovac's election as Republic Public Prosecutor during a single search. Since the proposal for a decision proposes one candidate, pursuant to Article 181(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision in general. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor in general. Of the 135 MPs, all 135 were declared. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect a Republic Public Prosecutor. Let me congratulate Mrs. Zagorki Dolovac on your behalf and on her behalf for the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor and wish her much success in her work. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a D.A.'s election in the D.A.'s D.A.'s D.A.'s Office since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search and before we move on to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 12. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly elects public prosecutors to vote mostly on all MPs. Since the MP has challenged the government's proposals for a decision to elect prosecutors in the prosecution of special jurisdiction, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 181(4). The Rules of Procedure shall decide on a proposal for the selection of each of the contested candidates individually. According to these proposals, we move to a decision. I am voting on the government's proposal to elect Miljko Radisavljevic as Prosecutor for Organized Crime, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Verica Radet. Of the 135 MPs, 134 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly chose Miljko Radisavljevic as Prosecutor for Organized Crime most of the votes of all MPs. I am putting the government's proposal to elect Vladimir Vukcevic for the War Crimes Prosecutor, whose candidacy has been challenged by MP Verica Radet. Of the 135 MPs, 133 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Vladimir Vukcevic as Prosecutor for War Crimes most of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has selected both disputed candidates from the draft decision to elect prosecutors in the prosecution of special jurisdiction, which are the only candidates proposed, I find that the National Assembly has thus decided to elect prosecutors in the prosecution of special jurisdiction. Let me congratulate Miljak Radisavljevic on the election of the Prosecutor for Organized Crime and Vladimir Vukčević in the election of the Prosecutor for War Crimes and wish them success in the work. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision on the election of public prosecutors for APELACION OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITIES After the National Assembly has carried out a search for a decision on the selection of public prosecutors for the public prosecutor's office, I remind you that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, elects public prosecutors and decides on the termination of their functions by the majority of the votes of all MPs. Before moving to a decision, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on the contested proposal for a decision. A decision on the disputed draft decision on the election of prosecutors for the appeals public prosecutor's office. Since MP Verica Radet has challenged the government's proposal for a decision to elect public prosecutors for the appeals public prosecutor's office, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 181(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, shall be decided individually and on a proposal to elect candidates who are not disputed shall be decided in general by a public vote. According to the above, we move to a decision. I am voting on the Government's proposal to elect Nebojsa Budic, head of the National Office of the President of the Municipality of Prokuplje, whose candidacy has been challenged by the MP, Ms. Radet. I find that out of 135 MPs, 133 voted in favour, and that the National Assembly chose Nebojsa Budic as the appeals public prosecutor for the Kragujevac Public Prosecutor's Office of Appeal. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposal in the proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision in general. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of public prosecutors for the Public Prosecutor's Office, without a disputed proposal on which the National Assembly has previously declared itself. Of the 135 MPs, all 135 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, by majority of the votes of all MPs, adopted a motion for a decision on the election of public prosecutors for the public prosecutor's office, without a disputed proposal that the National Assembly had previously declared. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the elected public prosecutors and wish them success in my work. We move to point 5: – Proposal for a decision on the election of public prosecutors to the Higher Public Prosecution Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on the motion for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind the National Assembly, according to Article 105 point 12) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, elects public prosecutors and decides on the termination of their functions by majority of the votes of all MPs. Before moving to a decision, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on the contested proposals set out in the proposal for a decision. Since MPs have challenged a number of government proposals from the proposal for a decision on the election of public prosecutors in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 181(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the disputed candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect candidates who are not disputed decide in general by a public vote. According to the above, we move to a decision. I am voting on the government's proposal to elect Milan Bigovic, a public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in the Higher Prosecutor's Office in Kosovo Mitrovica, whose candidacy has been challenged by MP Vjerica Radet, and I would like to make a statement. Of the 135 MPs for the government's proposal, 133 voted. I find that the National Assembly chose Milan Bigovic as public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Kosovo Mitrovica by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the Government's proposal to elect Aleksandar Petrovic, acting public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Svilinc, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Vjerica Radet. Of the 135 MPs, 135 voted in favour of this proposal. I find that the National Assembly chose Alexander Petrovic as public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Kragujevac by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the government's proposal to elect Stanislav Dukic, a lawyer - Barcak, whose candidacy has been challenged by MP Verica Radeta, as a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar. Of the 135 MPs, 132 voted in favour of the government's proposal. I find that the National Assembly has selected Stanislav Dukic as public prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar, most of the votes of the MPs. I put the government's proposal to elect Gordana Colic, public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Pancev, a public prosecutor in the Third Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Vjerica Radet. Of the 135 MPs, all 135 have been declared to this proposal. I find that the National Assembly chose Gordana Colic as public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Panchev by majority of the votes of all MPs. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposals in the proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision in general. I am putting the motion for a decision on the election of public prosecutors in the senior public prosecutor's office, without the disputed proposals the National Assembly has previously said. Of the 135 MPs, 134 voted for this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a draft decision on the election of public prosecutors to senior public prosecutors in general by majority of the votes of all MPs. Since we have come to terms with the motion for a decision, allow me to congratulate the public prosecutors on your choice and to wish them success in their work. We move on to the 6th point: – Proposal for a decision on the election of public prosecutors to the Fundamental Public Prosecutor's Office After the National Assembly has conducted a search on the motion for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind the National Assembly, under Article 105 paragraph 12, of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, elects public prosecutors and decides on the termination of their functions by majority of the votes of all MPs. Before moving to a decision, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on the contested proposal for a decision. Since the MPs have challenged one candidate from the motion for a decision on the election of public prosecutors in the main public prosecutor's office, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 181(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, shall be decided individually and a proposal to elect non-contested candidates shall be decided by a general public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I would like to put the motion to elect Jelena Curcic, judge at the municipal public court in Guca, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Mirko Munjic and Vjerica Radeta. Of the 135 MPs, 134 voted in favour of this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has chosen the majority of the votes of all MPs Jelena Curcic as public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Požega. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision-making decision in general. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of public prosecutors in the General Public Prosecutor's Office, without a disputed proposal on which the National Assembly has previously declared itself and I ask you to press the corresponding key. Of the 135 MPs, 132 voted in favour of this proposal. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes of all MPs has adopted a motion for a decision on the election of public prosecutors in the main public prosecutor's office in general. Since we have come to terms with the motion for a decision, allow me to congratulate the public prosecutors on your and your behalf for the election and wish them success in their work. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. I thank you for your patience, and I think we've really done a lot today. We'll be working on tomorrow, December 1st, at 11.00 p.m.
