ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33668	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine precisely the number of MPs present in the hall, I would ask the MPs to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Milica Radovic and Moma Colakovic. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, National Assembly Chairman, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, in addition to the proposing representative, Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Dr Diana Dragutinović, Minister of Finance and Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Science and Technological Development, called for members to attend and Zoran Martinović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Zoran Milosevic, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Suzanne Paunović, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Radoje Savicevic, Head of the Group for International Agreements on Social Security in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and Predrag Petrovic, Head of Labour and Social Policy. We move to a joint principled search of the 2-6th and 12th points of the agenda: – PROPOSES OF THE PENSION AND INVALIDIAN ASSISTANCE, THE SUPPORT OF THE FAMILY WITH DECOM, THE PRESIDATION OF THE ACCIONAL SOCIETIONS, THE PUBLISHING OF THE PUBLIC ASSISTANCE AND DEBIA OF SERVES We continue to work on a joint principled search on 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 12 of the agenda: Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on pension and disability insurance laws, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt, the proposal for a law on the financial support of the family with children; the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the adoption of action societies, the amendment of the Law on amendments to the Law on Public Debt, the Law of the Law of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and of the Republic of the European Union. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 12, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I realize that the time for debates per parliamentary group is the following: Parliament group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS MP group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; G17 Plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes 12 seconds; Parliament group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group SPS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Salad group minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to be represented by MP Milisav Petronijevic, the SPS-JS parliamentary group, the national envoy Vladan Jeremic, the SRS parliamentary group. I ask the presidents of the parliamentary groups, if they have authorized any more members of the parliamentary groups during the search to deliver information to inform the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 142(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle search on: Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Download of Stock Companies, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Debt, Proposal for an Amendment to the Law on Insurance and Proposal for a Law on the Liabilities of the Republic of Serbia to the Eurobank of the EFG.d. Before I ask if she wants the word of the proposal's representative, Minister Diana Dragutinovic, on the basis of Article 88(2), I am informing all MPs who are members of the committee who have at the same time the right and the decision to either issue an opinion on the committees to know: the application to the electronic system will provide them with the right to keep within five minutes reserved for separate opinions and to take advantage of those five minutes during this session, and after reports submitted by the committee's rapporteurs, regardless of which reports have not yet arrived on the parliamentary benches from the board whose sessions have been held earlier or have been held. I repeat once again, I only ask that, at the moment we are in session, when a word is given on the basis of a separate opinion, all MPs who have decided to issue their opinion should apply to the electronic system. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33669	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a series of accompanying laws that are important for the implementation of the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2010. On this occasion, since I will probably appear several times during the day, I will focus on two laws that are basically the support of the Budget Law. These are the draft law supplementing the Law on PIO and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on financial support of families with children. As I was saying in the 2010 budget exposé, the main focus of this budget is to reduce the participation of current government expenditures. When we talk about current expenditures, I mean salary and pension expenses. In that sense, public sector wages and pensions share the same fate in 2010, which means they freeze at the level they were at in December 2008. In this respect, it is proposed to amend the Law on PIO, which practically changes only one member, and pensions and cash and the amount of the general points do not change during 2010, so that the first subsequent indexation of pensions has been since April 2011. The second law, which is also important for the implementation of the 2010 budget, is the law on changes and additions to the Law on financial support for the family with children. I'd just like to give you some facts that were a motive for amending this law. The first fact is that unfortunately, the number of babies in Serbia is stagnant, therefore, either growing mildly or even falling. On average, the number of babies increased by less than 1% annually since 2005-2008. On the contrary, the number of users, or expenditure intended for mothers, increased by 40% annually on average between 2006 and 2008. In that sense, we thought there was a reasonable doubt that this law was being misused. That's why we suggested the next changes. So, a large number of employers practically increase the salary of an employed pregnant woman in a period that is important for determining this fee, which means the basic month and three previous months. In that sense, we have proposed a change in the remuneration of earnings practically impacted by the average earnings made over a period of 12 months. In this respect, the additional earnings that are thus established will not change during the period of exercise of this right. In addition to this change that will definitely reduce the possibility of abuse, there are several more changes concerning the parental supplement and child supplement. The change regarding the parental supplement is that it will not be able to achieve that right by a mother who does not care about the children of the previous birth order. In any case, this change is supported by what's called the so-called change. responsible parenting. In case a mother has given birth to two or more children at the birth of three children in the next birth, she can achieve a parental supplement for each child born, which means for both fifth and sixth. The last major change concerns a child's supplement. So far, the foster parent or guardian has had the right to a child's allowance for up to four children. Therefore, if he had his own and adopted or the children he had fed, he had to be identified by which children would receive a child’s supplement. Now they will be able to receive a child's allowance for more than four children, and for their own children, and for children they care about, food and care about. Since these two laws really support the 2010 budget, I ask you to support these laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33670	Do the committees want the word? President of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, MP Meho Omerovic? (No) Does the President of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want the word? (No) Did the MP Zlata Đeric, who, at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, issue an opinion on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, want to explain the opinion raised? (No) Whether any of the other MPs who have singled out their opinion would like to explain their opinion, on the basis of Article 93, paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? One more announcement. The Progressive Group of Serbia, the authorised representative and deputy president, is a national MP, Jorgvanka Tabakovic. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33671	I'm sorry, I just wanted to ask if the motionary explained all the laws under consideration. No, I don't. I'll take your word for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33672	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33673	On behalf of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, I will make a brief statement on the proposed laws. In fact, six laws were proposed, amendments and additions to laws, which, as the minister called the accompanying laws, are intended to implement the budget. Their adoption allows for the implementation of this proposed budget. We will vote as a parliamentary group on the draft of those laws in the voting day. I want to take the opportunity to look back on some of these laws at this time, no matter what support we give. I will start with the law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, which is also on the agenda, and as I understand it, the Minister will only later give an additional explanation about it. That's why I'm taking this discussion as an opportunity to ask a specific question right now and give Mrs. Minister a chance to answer those questions. Namely, what's this about? The 2005 Insurance Act provided for all companies to separate life insurance from non-life insurance. I must say that the SPS MPs at the time when the law was passed gave an amendment and suggested that those societies that already exist until the law was passed, and they deal with both insurance, that they could continue the work. Then and now, we have an argument that is identical – the life insurance market in Serbia is in turn. With this one possibility to separate life from non-life insurance only Serbia offers the market naked, and much stronger, above all, by the insurance house, with the respect that everyone has equal access here, will come to that market. Ours hasn't been developed, it's only in the water. At that time, the answer was that the EU's recommendation was to separate life insurance and non-life insurance, but it was also given the possibility for countries to try to deal with insurance companies that existed so far both. We think it should stay. In fact, all insurance companies that existed until the adoption of the Insurance Act should be entitled and able to deal with both. It was then adopted that the variant is still going to the separation, given the deadlines until when and here, one deadline expires just these days. Please, for the same reason I will repeat, the life insurance market in Serbia is in the process. The state has an obligation to help the sector. Secondly, the EU does not prohibit the ability of insurance houses that existed so far to deal with both life insurance and non-life insurance. Of course, in that sense, we will support this proposal that the government should extend the deadline until 2011, but we propose to the Government to consider and consider and propose amendments to the laws that allow those insurance houses that existed until the law was passed so that they can do so permanently. The Minister knows better than I do, and I will not abuse this pay phone to state which countries in Europe have kept and one and the other insurance companies, even some countries that have separated, have put it back. So we support the extension of that deadline and we ask that the possibility be considered to enable insurance houses that have done so before the law was passed, continue to deal with both jobs at the same time. This is also an opportunity to support, related to this area, the government's orientation over the next three years, which is given through the budget and the memorandum, which says the government will also launch a privatisation of the largest domestic insurance company, "Dunav" insurance, AD Belgrade, if it considers that it should not be in majority state ownership and if market conditions are favourable. We support this approach because of this second sentence – if it considers that it should not be in majority state ownership and if market conditions are favourable. This is a period and an opportunity for this government to consider whether with a strong state-owned insurance company, along with a strong development bank, it can also help Slovenia, for example, to help both the economy and the population in Serbia. Another law I would like to briefly refer to is the law on amendments to the Law on financial support for the family with children. I'd like first of all to draw attention that this is not a technical question at all, but also how politics gets into politics, gets in the way of strategy, and that's exactly why I'm talking about it. Financial support to the family is part of the overall social care for children, it is already a policy, part of which concerns improving the conditions for meeting the basic needs of children, special incentives for the birth of children, for supporting materially endangered families, families with children with developmental disorders and children without parental ageing, therefore, and social categories. The government has found one balance with the budget it proposed to encourage the economy, the price of the economy, new employment, there is no adequate social policy, forecasting subsidies for the economy and agriculture. I expect the government to do this in the best and most efficient way, i.e. to invest money where it will first return, first turn, and second direction of the government, to invest in capital and infrastructure, energy, because this is a great opportunity for Serbia, especially in these times, in the conditions of the severe economic crisis, because it opens up the possibility for Serbia to get a new value, to become a transit country and through it to get money, to hire, because only on these and such jobs can be employed, and yet, I say, the first question of social policy is to allow a man to work. When he's employed, of course, there's a certain amount of money for the budget. This is what we support, but we also support the balance that the government has established, that even in the most difficult economic crisis, it has not gone to a reduction in social rights. I think that the government has shown great responsibility for the simple reason that, from one state budget, there should be not only the economy, but also the population of this country, because it does that state. For these reasons, we give full support to such a policy. When we talk about the law on financial support for families with children, I need to point out what you know, which is politics. The law is based on the rights and duties of parents to raise and raise children, on the right of children to living conditions that allow development, on the obligations of the state to support family and child and future generations. Please, these are the significant rights arising from the law. This state, this government, I expect, will continue with such a policy of seeking balance and enabling them to exercise their rights. For these very reasons, and this law on financial support of the family deserves support, but please, I would like to give my government a warning to consider before the law is passed. The explanation we heard was that there were observed abuses of employers when it came to the application of this law, because so far it was the basis for a family-paying fee with the children's last paycheck, so to speak, on the eve of the maternity leave. The government has seen the abuse of that and wants to stop, to prevent that abuse. The reason the government states deserves strong support and there is no dilemma. Wherever there is an abuse, the government should stand up to it. I warn, given the previous rights that I have spoken of, which have been acquired by the law, which the Government wants and should allow to be realised, that this conflict with the abuse of employers does not go to the abuse of the state over the exercise of that right. Please, most of the government is doing this job very honestly, giving a very clear and public explanation about it, because for the first time it happens that a year from the day of the month, when it enters maternity leave, it takes an average profit. Why a year? Isn't it enough six months when all other rights are taken for six months? After all, if the employer is six months before he wants to use maternity leave to pay more, it deserves support. I don't believe in such a story that the employer will do it for six months. Again, on the other hand, we send a clear message – we do not want to abuse it. On the contrary, we just want to prevent abuse, and that's why we're giving this longer term, six months, as well as for the exercise of all other rights, not to mention: scholarship, child's allowance, etc. That's one but very important question, when it comes to this law on financial support for the family with children. The other changes deserve support and I don't think there should be any time to support it. Finally, I will remain very short on the draft law amending the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. I want to say that, unlike others, the government made a responsible move, it made a responsible decision when it increased pensioners by 10% in late 2008. In this way, she made an attempt to raise the level of pensions, which had fallen drastically, to one decent level. This allowed it to be a retirement cover in this 2009 because the pension harmonisation law did not apply. It is now proposed to be valid in 2010. It is one of the great savings in the budget, and that is something we consider to be extorted, necessary, not good, but extorted in the conditions in which the country was found in the conditions of economic crisis. Otherwise, let me remind you, the pension is legally acquired. Retirement comes from insurance obligations, not from the state's desire just to help them. While I'm working, I'm detaching funds to secure my existence, the moment I can't work anymore. Please, it's insurance, it's not social aid. I'm not talking about the pension levels that are now in the conditions in which this country is located, this country. Pensioners should not be accused that they are the reason the country is in this situation. It's not a problem. It's not a problem. It's not a problem. The problem is that, the country in which it is located, can't track it through budget filling at this point. But it's not just about cutting pensions. The solution is also in the collection of income, in a more efficient collection of income. You certainly have the data of how much billions are owed through payment and in more efficient charge, financial discipline, the struggle with the grey economy and, of course, support, what you have foreseen through the budget - subsidies to the economy, agriculture, investment in infrastructure, which enable in fact the adoption of new money, and thus the money for these payments. I want to say that I believe that this government will continue its policy when it comes to pensions, as it has done so far, and that it is very clear that it needs to come out with a message in public, that it will not take any steps that will endanger the current rights of pensioners. I agree that reform of the pension system must seem and should, because reform of the pension system does not appear anywhere in the world for a year. Reform can refer to some of the following, not existing ones. And again, here very carefully. This is what I needed to say to express my position, i.e. my group's position on this issue, and to support the government's insistence, that all rights, acquired by law, are ultimately fought for their achievement without any dilemmas, and that the reform we need to talk about, certainly deserves attention to be seen more closely and to go towards one system, especially in this country when, third pillar, voluntary pension funds (President: 20 minutes). This second pillar is not yet in turn. That could apply to the next generation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33674	Thank you. The word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33675	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Dragutinovic, is a very important item of the agenda. Very important. You have practically gone through it, coming down to these few amendments and supplementing the existing law, but already these laws show how right we were when we said that we would like the budget to be socially responsible, but now below the cost of social responsibility is being exposed through the narrowing of previously given rights and in the case of material supplements and in the case of frozen pensions. What we have to say here is actually this fundamental problem that our society is facing and that you're avoiding to mention, which nobody answered anything about, and then the one that operates on the front line is found on the wallpaper. You know, when you're on the front line, then you're not asking the wounded if it's for surgery without anesthesia or not, but you're operating and saving your life. How can the country function in a normal way, to meet its obligations to citizens, if 18% of the population is jobless, and 30% of the social product is focused on pensions? What do those pensions look like? Fifty per cent of pensioners are below 20,000. What do public finances look like? Exhaustedly, they're practically decomposing under such a burden. Last year, and so many times we talked about it, pensions rose linearly by 10%. Whether it was a good measure or not, from the point of view of a ruling coalition party, it is something that is in itself indisputable. From our perspective, not a party that is in opposition, but a party that is different strategically, it is an unspeakable and harmful measure, if its effects are seen, if analysed. We were now listening to an SPS representative, before an increase in pension was linearly by 10%, the euro was worth 78 dinars. Right after the increase, the national currency lost 20% of its value, so the pensioners didn't get 10% more, but the pensioners on one side got 10% more, to lose 20% and every pensioner in this country knows it. Where's the other problem? The average pension, the net earnings rate in January, was 74%, 68% in February, 70% in March, 66% in April, 68% in April, 68% in April, 68% and 66%, 66%, 67%, 67%, 67%, 67%, 67%, 67%, 67%, 67%. How far will the country where the pension is 70% of the salary? How long will it take for a country where the number of pensioners is twice the number of people looking for a job? We can't deal with the problem of pensions now, let's say, without realizing that this problem is due to the deep deformities of a poor policy that has been conducted for years. On Saturday, you were told that only 18% of pensioners had completed full-time work and had retired on the basis of full-time employment. We are the only European country, for other countries we have no data, perhaps you have, Mrs Dragutinovic, in which the number of disability pensions is higher than the number of family pensions: 25% of pensioners receive disability pensions. Clearly, this is about abuse. That's obvious. It's clear that people used to retire to us that, you said yourself, they were an economic category, primarily, socially motivated. Hundreds of thousands of people who were out of work overnight were retired. At the time, there was no consideration of the consequences. It's been working from today to tomorrow, so today we have an unsustainable situation, that from the pension fund, you know, that natural sense of every pensioner who says, I've earned my pension. From that fund where pensions are earned, 45% of the money comes from the budget, and 55% from the budget. How do you charge the budget? The budget is being filled as defined by the finance minister -- taxes, state revenues, concrete work. We cannot resolve the issue of pensions in an adequate way if, on the other hand, we do not ask the question of hiring people. That is why we insisted that collective social solidarity be established in some way through this budget. If in 2009, as a society, we as citizens had an understanding of the needs of pensioners and raised a pension budget of half a billion euros, then we need to find the strength to support that other part of Serbia that needs to create that 55% pension fund and that needs to ensure a minimal existence for itself and for its family. We part in that field. It is true that pensions will be frozen this year, but the mass will increase. As the mass increases, there is deformation, and you know it very well. If you split a hundred dinars into a hundred pensioners, and then next year you say you can't go more than a hundred dinars, and you get another 20 pensioners, how do you cover that deformity? We all know very well that there will have to be policy adjustments. That's why we can't talk about public finances like this. If the state was to save, then before that it had to tell us, as citizens, that this belt that's been tightening for 20 years, there's no one who knows how many holes, that it's tight to the end. In Sweden, you can save in Norway, but there is no room for savings in Serbia. We have to start something new to create. That's why we're facing the paradox now -- that half a billion euros were spent to practically make pensioners even more victims today than they were a year ago, so they'd have 70% of the profits, but that the profit is actually less than it was when they had 60%. In Russia, the average pension is 30% of the profit. Let's not talk about any other countries. We can't run such a policy, but we have to make a deal within society. First, an agreement that, as a generation that can create something in this country, will oblige us to produce some new values in the ruins of the world created by these pensioners. Everything can fail, but we have an obligation to create something new. That's not happening right now. Our country must be uncompromising in the introduction of order both in the pension fund and in the tax policy and in that segment of its financial business in which it is, more than obviously, terribly irresponsible. We were talking about the railway, about a billion euros in rail donations, donations through the tolerance of the 100 billion-dollar railways and salaries that eat 12 or 13 billion. How far will a country that treats its problems in this way come? Our wish is not to take away the pensioners' right to retire, it is our desire to allow them to exercise their rights even in the years ahead. Remember how this adventure began, with the story of the high-speed railways and the Swedish standard, so we ended up on dots and bons, because the currency was no longer worth anything to us. That's when the pension funds were destroyed. Mrs Dragutinović, if pensions are frozen at the founding level, what happens to new pensioners, i.e. Those pensioners who are going to show up this year as pension fund users and how many such people, does anyone even know? What are we going to do with that strange conclusion that there have been a lot of abuses, and then the average is coming out of the last 12 profits, not the last three, because employers have been kind to families? It's about the problem that's been defined in such a way that it's been shown a lot of profits, that's what it's all about. We should say that, because people don't know what we're talking about. We're talking about the simple truth. The employer has been raising his salary above real for the last three months, so that through that salary, he can increase the child's allowance and thus support the young family. Why is the need for an employer to burden himself in such a way that he pays for it, and then the state refunds it? So, the employer burdens himself, and then knocks on the door of the state, a state that is the biggest debtor and often does not settle its obligations effectively. So it's a vitality. If we've tied everything to the average in the last 12 months, then we have to ask, is that a rule that applies only to the supplement, or is that a rule that is introduced in all other financial cases? How do you form, say, a single pension - a personal point, a general point, a personal coefficient? That's all the math. If we've established this one principle that applies to everyone, we're establishing another principle here, even though it's not the same subject. Obviously, we adapt our principles to our own possibilities. Not to question the capacity that remains untapped to expand these possibilities. What will Serbia look like next year, if this year from Serbia can be without a problem anywhere in the world? A million people have left the country in the '90s. It is in that particular sense the labour force of this country, which should create values from which both their profits and pensions will be paid to pensioners. What we're asking of the pensioners is a deal. They know better than us that all these raises that are spoken of are pointless and that they mean nothing, practically, that they are so small and miserable, 0.1% of pensioners receive over 70-80,000 dinars, below 20,000 is 50%. We need to establish some order here. Why hasn't the pension control and audit been carried out in the last 15-20 years? Why not establish new criteria that will respect the fact that today's pensioners are working, they are able to work? They retired at 50 years old. You go to the M.P. at the age of 50 to retire, in the army as well. They retire and come to work tomorrow and they are competition for a young completed student and are cheaper for the amount of pension, since for so much they can lower their profits to the employer. How many such people are in Serbia? When I talk about money, then we have to be clear, there's no emotion. We can't steal from each other without showing up in front of the state as innocent. That's what happened to us all. This country knows very well that it was not retired by meeting the criteria, but by finding connections or by being politically useful, so the factory fails and overnight all the failed workers become pensioners with the right to expect the state to take care of them. We're old company. The average working age is smaller in us than in countries like ours, such as Serbia, for example, in Europe, for 15-20 years and people who have 15-20 years of employment, regularly regulated, can be happy. Our generations have no health insurance, no pension insurance. They've spent most of their working days in short-term jobs, working on black. It's a timed social bomb that the countries will face very quickly. That's why we have to change the basics. We have no understanding of the idea that at the same time society is convinced that the social budget is being managed and that this government is interested in workers' rights and pensioners' rights, and there is a parliamentary group who doesn't care about both workers and pensioners, and then the agenda point comes before us -- the freezing of pensions, the reduction of the basics for child support, and then it says that we are right. Two days ago, we heard from the President of the Republic, but both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister and the Minister of Labour, they all deal with workers without a job. Will someone turn to workers who, despite everything, are working today, are employers who, despite the crisis, are working today? Who's taking care of them? For the past 10 years, these people have restored this country, not those we look at on the tracks, which were the cannon flesh of Milosevic's politics and other hostages in their failed companies, and today they keep us here in the mat. Say, Mrs Dragutinovic, that we were right when we said you couldn't run that budget policy that you promoted on Friday and Saturday. You can tell that's impossible. On the one hand, we promise a socially responsible state, and on the other hand we say we can't do it anymore. At this point, social responsibility is not the sharing of charity by the state that destroyed the previous society. Socially responsible policy is defining the way things are going to be put in place. You're 55 years old and you're retired, you're 70 and you're retired, so you can't have the same pension, you haven't done the same thing, you haven't invested in that pension fund. We suggest you define one minimum and say what is the minimum that this country will provide to every pensioner. See what agricultural pensions look like - 8,000 dinars, an average of 8,000 dinars, 30% of our population is related to the village. Our proposal on this matter is much more correct to the pensioners. We've suggested an amendment to cut the pension rate by a year's work. In this way, there can be savings that will be used, not for the villages of Podokin, but for the employment of 18% of people who do not have a job today, who will then fill those funds with their work, so that they too can get a pension and those who depend on their work. Because the state can't stand and at the same time fund everything around it. That half-billion bothers us terribly, because we don't see them today. Today they don't mean anything anymore. It bothers you, too, except you're an economist and you don't do politics. We deal with both politics and economy. There's no more in the budget today. With half a billion, with half a billion carefully spent, we were able to improve our education system, solve some infrastructure problems, make the country more competitive, bring it closer to the world we financially depend on. Finally, if we're talking politics, it's in the interest of the pensioners to realize that policy, for example, we insist on, which they are most opposed to. Without foreign investment, there are no new jobs. Without new jobs, there are no new contributions. No contribution, no pension fund. The new jobs depend on the money that's somewhere in the west. That money doesn't invest in the country. The money is invested in a country that has as big a dilemma as Serbia, a country still ruled by demagogues. The pensioners need to support us, not expect us to shake our heads like they did, and then figure out where we were wrong. If they don't have the strength to work anymore, they'll back us up. If there is no money in Serbia that they deserve, there must be respect for them. That money, the 10% that went to the pensioners, could have been used more effectively to reform the health system. Improving health care, solving the problem of gerontology centers. Through broad decentralisation, solutions that are characteristic of Belgrade can be reached. With two billion this year, Belgrade has helped the poorest Belgrade citizens and the oldest. But other local self-governments can't do that, because they're completely disproved. Local self-government rights, property, and then they'll be able to do one part of the work that the state is trying to do today, but it's not effective enough. When are we going to start a pension reform? It's like the IMF is paying those pensions, so we're waiting for the IMF to force us to do it, or the World Bank. Well, they don't receive pensions in Serbia, they receive pensions in countries where the issue is so resolved. We have a lot of dilemmas here that we have to answer -- whether we're going to introduce private pension insurance or not, it's already present, expressed, but not in a conceptual way, not in a strategic way, are we going to combine these two systems? One day we hear arguments that go in favor of that, another day critical arguments, that reject something like that, but we don't have a strategy. You can't come to the Assembly and say -- this year's pensions are going to be frozen, and there's going to be a point, this year's pensions are going to be frozen, they're going to be less by the rate of inflation, which is technically 6% or 7%, they're going to be less because they're tied to the profits that the index of earnings has fallen, but that's why pensioners are our strategy. Your children will get a job, what you do not enough in life will be able to offer you those because of what they will be able to do. Today, even though they are capable, they cannot exercise their right to do so. That's what we want to build politics on. It's a catastrophic situation where generations are confronted, but no one has offered an intergenerational agreement. The idea of solidarity must exist between us. No pensioner wants to live at the expense of his children or his grandchildren, none of them normal. And my parents are pensioners, and our parents are pensioners. When you live in a family community, then you're more than aware of how right we are when we insist on that kind of order that we don't see here. It is the most expensive five MPs in the history of Serbian parliamentarianism, five MPs -- 500 million. Now here we hear praises about the government who had a hearing about pensioners, so she retired 10%. She retired and knocked down the dinar by 20%. Pensioners know what they could buy for their pension without that 10% and what they can do now. That measure you insist on is saying that we were right, but it's not enough strategy. Next year, the percentage of the profit burden will be even higher, as the budget will have to be filled, the minimum that you need to achieve. We have nowhere else to save, so we need to reverse those relationships. I hope you have at least so much understanding to say how unsustainable this relationship is in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33676	National MP Đuro Peric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33677	Dear Madam Chairman, members of the government, honourable MPs, I would like to say, although we have already discussed this, on these various issues concerning pensioners. I think there's a real galamatias out of various claims and findings. First, some facts must start to look at the right eyes and look at where it comes from and what is the situation. Those 10% of the famous ones that were constantly mentioned from that year 2008, in fact, in 2009 were frozen pensions, and then all these increases that were possible under the law were spent through it. As early as 2010, harmonisation should be two times, in March and October, under the applicable law. However, precisely because of the situation we are in as a society and as a state it cannot go, and what happened then in 2008, there was only one situation that had already been brought to ruin. We from these discussions about pensioners, and now we see that when we turn to individual indicators and the number of people who receive certain pensions, then we see that it's pretty bad and further, and the fact is that they're not the ones who are now allowing some carefree life, not even a small percentage of pensioners, but others that we're not talking about. But now, as far as I'm concerned, the first thing that's said about 70, 65 is, I don't know how much the average pension ratio to the average income is the expression of the changed methodology. The methodology was changed last year, and these pensions, according to this methodology, because all employees were introduced whether they were receiving profits or not, came into a situation that only accidentally increased worse. They are in fact, given that the number that is employed and does not receive profits is below 60% of that average when viewed realistically. It's on one side. The other problem is the question of these funds. I'll tell you right now, these funds were never such that they could be easily disposed of. First, in earlier times it had to come back if there was something in those funds, it had to be returned legally to the state, that is, how the economy was spoken, and it was given away, and it was distributed to others. It was only at the end of the 1980s that it was realized that it was only Serbia and BiH acting like it, and then something started to be built in this Serbia from those pairs, so now that you have assets in the PIO fund is the result mostly of that. Furthermore, this claim that there are many pensioners who have insufficient training refers to disabled pensioners. However, I must say that this proposal that goes to reduce these pensions, they were already reduced when those pensions were established, then they had to be reduced according to the years of internships they had. They've already been reduced, so they weren't even bigger. I also have to say that those pensions, disability pensions, were only a year ago, 33% of the total number, now they've come up to 25%. So, it's a very rigorous retirement control now. Secondly, what happens in different times and times before, and, permanently, when there are certain crises, then it's looked at in all ways to allow people to retire, because it was like a rescue solution. However, the fact is that until we have a strong and healthy economy, we will not be able to expect that there will be any better days for what they are doing or for those who are retired, but it seems to us that this whole transition that has been taking place over the past years, and even now what is happening, has not made it possible for this to happen in one real way, but for the most part, through these pensioners it has happened, when all these changes of the law and everything else has happened. I have to tell you, all the companies that are in the privatisation process don't pay contributions at all, and some for 10 years. All companies that are under bankruptcy – no contribution is paid, all companies that are in rehab and recovery are also not paying a contribution. The ones before the liquidation, I probably can't. Therefore, when you look at how much this total is made that should be right, it is not enough, and it is not on the other side either, which is where it is done and with those richest ones we call tycoons, etc. Not a contribution is paid as would have to be paid, which would be normal and how it is done in the world, but the lowest of some contributions are paid, the rest is paid in cash, people are blackmailed, the gray economy is, here in Belgrade is estimated to be around 40%. Then you can imagine what's going on around that world right now that doesn't pay for contributions. It cannot be provided only through these contributions if it is not arranged in that sphere, and this must be done in a different and appropriate manner. I'm not saying that there's no need to reform it, and it's started, and we'll soon have these suggestions on how to move forward from this situation where we are. I have to tell you that the situation is quite difficult in this pension population and we have great pressures and great criticisms and we PUPS MPs are not asking to increase it, because when it comes to agricultural pensioners who don't have much more pensions, from eight thousand and they're down, but I have to tell you that it was in 2003 that the law was changed, until all household employees paid a contribution, and then it changed that only the owner of the household paid a contribution, so the number of those who began to pay, and now it's logical that a very small number of those who needed to settle the need for some 230 thousand pensioners. There are a lot of ways and opportunities to do this, but not in the way that it is proposed that we should do it, and through the phase of reforming the system that is being prepared should then be done all these talks, arrangements, how we're going to do it further. After all, we are not the only ones in the world who have a problem like this, have others, so let's find a suitable solution. I don't think it's worth it now that we're crying for that pensioner's fate, and we're looking to cut that pension. Turn around, however you turn, it's shrinking. What if it wasn't for that 10%? It should still be reduced then, because at a certain point, when you help someone, you help them. Only true is that fact, it is said – a linear increase. It can't be in the pension-involved system, it's a system, it can't be linear, it can't be linear. You can't give the lowest pensions through that system anymore, and the rest of you can't. It can't do that, it can through other ways, through social funds, etc. to help, besides those other and pensioners, as is done in Belgrade, which is mentioned, or elsewhere, not only in Belgrade. We're in favour of these social funds and that's fine, but as far as the pension-involved system is concerned, it's actually transferred to us from developed Western European countries and it can be perfected analoguely, as it is there. If we go to Europe, we have to have a system that works. What kind of condition is that now? I have to say, it's not the current situation that we're having, not us here at PUPS, and I don't know who else, but one situation that's been going on for years, or decades.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33678	It's been used for 10 minutes. The word is from Ambassador Cedomir Jovanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33679	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Dragutinovic, we agree if we are talking about the obligation of Parliament to take care of its society and its citizens. There's no difference there. The differences that exist between us stem from the fact that we are not just thinking about this generation of pensioners today. We're thinking about those people who have to exercise their right to retire tomorrow. Do you know how much the average forty-five-year-old or fifty-year-old in Serbia, who spent 20 years in such an economy that you mentioned, at least 40% gray? What will his retirement life look like? When are we going to open, within society, dialogue on solving this problem? Here, you say it yourself - busy and not getting a profit. The problem is the methodology. In which country can you still be a normal employee without receiving a profit and how long can it last? In bankruptcy, they don't settle their obligations. Of course. Why don't we apply the law on bankruptcy? Because it's politically harmful, because we don't shut down companies. It is true that other countries have similar problems as Serbia. The essence of the problem is identical – old societies, but the shapes are completely different. We didn't face a simple answer to that big question here. Pensions are the only thing that can get people to work today. Pensions can't be realized by relying on the right that arises from the fact that you used to work. We all know that. No one says the pensioners didn't earn their pensions. We're just saying that the money's not enough anymore. If we provide him like this, he'll be less and less and we all know it well. So we need to turn to the job the government is running from, which is reforms, serious, deep, comprehensive reforms. We wanted this budget to be that way. It wasn't the last one. Unfortunately, it's not this one either. This is the budget that maintains the existing state, which is trying to keep Serbia head above water and is fully acceptable on the short run. The problem is that there will be another government, which we will meet here in Parliament in a year, two, three. Then the pension will be 100% of the salary, if the number of people who work is reduced, it will be and we need to think about it today, where we find the resources to start the economy. We also think that these resources exist within this devastating amount of 30% of the pension-related budget. There's no seductive order. You said that in a year or two, the number of disability pensions has been reduced from 33% to 25%, but we have no answer to the question whether or not the audit is complete. If it's not over, how much money do we have to give to get it done as soon as possible, so let's say -- these people are really disabled and they deserve disability pensions, because they died in their workplace, and these others have managed and we're not going to pay for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33680	Three minutes. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Rade Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33681	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just a question -- since the Minister has explained two laws, can we then take the second part of the presentation when she completes the interpretation and other important laws or do we have to wait for the end? The Rules of Procedure are clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33682	According to the Rules of Procedure, I can only give a word based on Article 90.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33683	Thank you. We've got six points united. Despite my best wishes, I couldn't find the deep links between the Act on the takeover of stock companies and the Law on PIO. I don't see a connection that could connect them. It is very unusual not to explain all six laws, which, if anything, the Assembly has decided, on the proposal of the ruling majority, are connected. But that's the Rules of Procedure, what do we do? After all, we read in the paper that in the next few days we will get even more important laws that are important for the implementation of the budget. For example, a bill on property tax. In any case, what are the key problems we need to talk about today are the problems relating to wages and pensions, investment and public debt. We will all agree that these are key problems that need to be solved by public finances, which need to be resolved by the Government, and which the National Assembly must solve. Of course, all these four problems are deeply linked and will depend on the inflow of foreign investment, the development of the economy and all that awaits us. The basic question is: do we solve the oatmeals and these amendments by working for today or do we read the book of Bozidar Djelic and see when we get better? I think it's our obligation as a Parliament that whenever we solve a problem we look ahead a few years ago and as we were against a linear pension increase a year ago, it proved only a year later that we were deeply right. I'll give you an example in physics. If the problem is observed at each individual moment, Mrs. Komic knows very well, when the building collapses there was some reason why it collapsed, but when she observes every single moment that building was from a balanced state to a state when it turned into a pile of concrete and steel, every moment is a balanced state. If you're looking at every moment in particular, then you have a deep excuse that you're doing that thing that way at that point. If you're not looking at what's at the end of the tunnel, then this solution won't do you any good. In the beginning, Minister Dragutinovic said that the aim of these proposals, I am talking about the concrete Law on PIO, on freezing pensions, he pointed out a very clear goal – should reduce the participation of profits and pensions. That means we're delaying a moment of solution for another time. Whether this problem will be solved by closing our eyes and waiting a year and the pension problem will be resolved, their participation will be less, pensioners will live happily ever after and we will all be better off in Serbia. Putting this problem away and freezing a solution for another year absolutely means nothing in solving the whole process. The state has defined it as saving, as we hear from ministers, but there are moments when saving is not the only solution, at any moment it must be saved, but other sources and other models must be found to move forward. What we need today is to see how we're going to solve the pension problem that we're going to choose in the future. It is quite clear that such an inflow of credit, as we had years ago, we will not have almost, that privatisation will not be almost and it is obvious that Serbia must have a problem of economic growth to solve in a very serious way. What happens when the 2011 budget comes? Does this government think that someone else will or simply wait for this problem to be solved, we will see, but what will happen significantly differently in Serbia in a year? You saw that it was proposed that the optimistic assumption of GDP is only 1%. We're gonna be a little bit better off than we are today. Today we have no indication that the problem of pensioners and pensions will be resolved in a year. What's it gonna matter to change in these years, and then we're gonna look at the whole thing differently? When you look at projections from the World Bank and the Government, a few years ahead, we have a slight growth – 1.5%, 3%, 5%, and that's years ahead. On the other hand, there is a clear tendency, we heard in the minister's statement, to reduce pensions' participation in GDP. GDP isn't growing, it's going to cut pensions. About a year ago, Minister Dragutinovic proposed, and we absolutely supported her here, and we regret that she did not drive out on her idea that pensions should not increase linearly. We think it was a much better model than this one today, because you've increased 10% of your pensions, pensions don't increase for two and a half years. If we asked the pensioners in 2012, which model is better, what do you think they'd say? Then someone tells us that the pension system is such that everything that's happened has to be respected, that no linear growth model can be applied, we absolutely agree. Then how can a linear freezing model be applied? They can't increase pensions to everyone linearly, and they can all freeze linearly and be frozen for two years. What do you think the pensioners will say if we clearly tell them here that the first increase can be expected on April 1, 2011? I think we'd be very happy if we'd told them a year ago that what they've grown then would be two-and-a-half years, regardless of all the gatherings. I don't know if you've looked at the draft budget of the PIO Fund for 2011? It only increases by 5%. So on January 1, 2012, pensions will be 5% higher than they are today. That pensioner who has 10,000 dinars will have two years' pension for 500 dinars. Minister Skundric is not present to ask if they have agreed on how much electricity the price will rise, how much other prices we do not affect will rise. Is that fair? Does the principle of linearity apply, then? It's obvious it's true. We absolutely don't accuse pensioners, we just point to one serious thing, there are times when saving can solve a problem, there are moments when structural problems arise and it's obvious that the problem of the pension system is the structural problem we have. The problem cannot be solved by the PIO's rooms being painted instead of every two years, every four years, and they will drink half coffee a day instead of one coffee. Obviously, this problem is much more serious and the only serious approach would solve it. Obviously, the word reform here is understood in different ways. Someone takes reform as a serious approach to ensure long-term pensions are decent. Others understand reforms, or a large group of others, that it is something that will absolutely change nothing. There will be reforms, but everyone will change, except for what we're interested in. When you look at the World Bank report, it's a clear hint and a desire to cut that pension share. We heard from IMF representatives, the truth is still unconfirmed, and that's what we'll see when that arrangement is adopted in a few days, but we've heard that the government has promised that the share of pensions in GDP will be significantly reduced in the next few years, it seems to me from 2015 to 10%. As there is no growth, the share decreases, the number of pensioners increases. The conclusion is more than clear. That's only possible if pensions are frozen year after year. I don't see any other way. What is a serious problem for us, I will discuss this in more detail when the minister gives an explanation, that is how we will pay this kind of pension in general and how Serbia will develop in the first place, given the state of public debt. Of course, according to our laws, contributions or donations to the PIO Fund are not public debt, but if you have a commitment of up to 200 billion dinars from the budget to the PIO Fund each year, that and how it can be considered a commitment of the state. So what we're pointing to and what we need at this point, and it's lagging behind, is to see how it's going to be in a year or two days, what's really going to be the reach of that reform, and how we're going to develop a whole society when the pension system isn't an independent segment of everyone else, because then there's going to be a situation where there's no linear increase, but there's a freezing incessantly or there's some other models. You know very well what kind of model there is, for example, in some countries around. That's what we're worried about, much more than whether this amendment will be adopted with 126 or 150 votes. It's the least important in a year or two. There are absolutely no serious reform stories here. We don't see any proposal that will guarantee that we're going to move forward and these are the things we need to talk about in this debate, much less than whether this year is changing with the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33684	The time used is 10 minutes, so is available. The word has been passed by MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia. The Minister wants a word. You have the advantage of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33685	I'll wait for the minister to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33686	I've shared a review of these laws in several groups, getting information from professional services about how many amendments there are to individual laws, and that's why I didn't have an exposé at all. Still, I'd like to say something, since most of the discussion has obviously passed the PIO law. Mr Cedomir Jovanovic said that this budget is a quo, that it does not support any reform, that it is not reformal and that there is no difference between the 2010 budget and the 2009 budget. Somehow I don't think this is a quo and this budget should be monitored along with an agreed programme with the IMF. So, Mr Jovanovic, it is not disputed that Serbia has a budget deficit and it is not disputed that the budget deficit is structural. Structurally, what we're fortunate to have economic growth would also have a deficit, except the deficit would not be four or 4.5% of the social product, but it would be below 2%, for example. The crisis has made us realize that the deficit is structural and that we need to do something both in short and long term. This budget refers to a period of one year, and that's what we can do in a short time. So, in the short run, we can freeze the salaries of public sector employees and pensions to share the same fate of public sector employees. That's what we can do. Also, in the short term, we can try to improve the target of various social benefits, as is the case with maternity benefits. We can do that in a short time. As you and Mr Obradovic know well, the component of the IMF programme is also to ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances, so that as structural conditions they are listed essentially two laws and these two laws should be adopted, that the government practically adopts them and proposes to parliament by the end of March 2011. It's the reform laws for PIO and it's the law I've been talking about, the budgetary system and fiscal responsibility, and these two laws want to do and reduce the structural rebalancing that exists between public income and public expenditure, which you have noticed, as we all know well. There's a little dilemma about the PIO law. A little dilemma and I think enough time for him to shape up. What are the dilemmas left to resolve? The indexation of pensions, what the indexation of pensions will be in the period beyond 2010, means since 2011 and beyond, as well as elements of the parameter reform. It is a minimum retirement age, a minimum period in which contributions will be paid, the right to a benefited internship. These are mostly the most important dilemmas and issues to be resolved by this law. So it is true that what is now proposed is not a reform, but by the end of March we will propose a law that will definitely mean reform. Hoping that I've at least answered your questions a little bit, maybe I should look back on some other laws for a little while. One of the laws in front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the takeover of stock companies. Just a few sentences. The relevant law came into force in June 2006 and the aim of the law was to provide conditions for market takeover, i.e. to change the ownership structure of stock companies. What are the problems observed in the application of this law? I'll list only three and those observed problems we've practically tried to solve by changing the law. The first problem, as a sticker of the actions of the target society, is not explicitly freed from the obligation to make bids for takeover. So, RS and professional investors with more than 25% voting rights are obliged to buy out other actions as well. However, the objective is often, as in this case, not to buy but to capitalise on economic operators, so that later when the crisis has passed, sales under more favourable conditions. This is the first known problem. The other identified problem is the misuse of a conditional takeover offer. What's a conditional offer? It's about an offer that's conditioned so-called. an impossible condition or a minimum condition that comes down to an extremely high level of ownership with the outcome that the takeover offer practically fails. The third problem in the application of this law was the abuse of the Institute of Forced Sales by pawning actions. In life, a minority shareholder practically advocated his actions and made it impossible to apply the Institute of Force Sales. What are the proposed changes? The proposed changes are going to meet with solving the identified problems. The first proposed change is that RS and professional investors, with whom they conclude an action-making contract, are exempt from the obligation to take over actions of the target society. The second change and change proposed is that a voluntary takeover offer can be conditional. The third is that during the period during which the forced sale of shares, an inconsistencies shareholder cannot pawn his actions. The draft law amending the Insurance Act, as you know, was adopted by the Insurance Act and a systematically regulated area of insurance, and it is prescribed that one insurance company cannot simultaneously carry out life insurance and non-life insurance activities. It's a member of the 14th of this law. The required obligation is to separate the business of life insurance and non-life insurance for companies established prior to the entry into force of the Insurance Act 2004. The EU regulation practically comes from the principle of separation of life insurance and non-life insurance, but it leaves us with the possibility that existing composite societies will continue to carry out both groups of insurance at the same time as they meet certain conditions, but it is necessary to set a time limit for them to do so. The setting of a deadline is essentially a national discretionary law. What exactly do we want with this law? That this current deadline, which was 31 December 2009, should be extended until 2011, because we have estimated that this negatively, in terms of the economic crisis and the still injured economy, would affect this industry. As for the Public Debt Act, I might comment on him along with the other ratifications.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33687	The right to replicas MP Cedomir Jovanovic and MP Rada Obradovic. MP Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33688	Mrs Dragutinović, I don't think we understand each other. When we talk about the budget then unfortunately we're not just talking about the budget by considering, say, the question of pensions, it's obvious that we have consequences and problems here all the time, and the cause of that problem is elsewhere. Let's say that for the time being, it seems to be working to resuscitate the effects of the crisis through the target of social benefits. What about reducing the number of government employees? That's the law we had here a month ago. Classic demagogy. What effects will this law produce in this 2010 budget? It's practically gone. We can't compromise, we're as a parliamentary group, with you personally. Simply, you have a wallet and you can pay with it as much as you have money in it. We're interested in what's going on with these society in general? Why do we have any money? Because we're doing the wrong thing, we're doing the wrong thing, and it needs to change. The IMF didn't come here and say, cut pensioners. As far as the IMF is concerned, pensions here can be 100,000 euros if they are paid out of some fund that can handle it. We have a problem with the fact that 15% of this country's GDP goes to pensions that are miserable. In order to make GDP bigger, we have to make some moves. The social product is a collection of private consumption, private investment, public consumption and public investment and net exports. What has the government done to do more in this year than think about reforming the pension fund? That's the darkness. If we know we have to export, which we're not thinking about right now. Why is it said that we need the retraining of the workforce, we need new schools, we need to improve our knowledge, we need re-industrialisation, there's no demagogy, we respect investors, the rule of law, effective institutions, laws that are logical. We have a law that we passed here a month ago. We compromised the civil servants, and then the auditor came and said – no one will be an auditor in the DRI. Why would he be in such a state that doesn't appreciate him or respect him? Without a good auditor we have a problem with the World Bank, we have a problem with other international financial institutions that say – you can't spend our money without passing us an account for it, you can spend yours however you want, but you can't spend ours. You can only spend ours under strict rules, those that bind us in our countries or in the international order. That's what this is about. As for the deficit, it is true that it is structural, but we cannot now be comforted by the fact that in this year it will be smaller than in another country in the environment, for example, as is the case with Romania, and in Great Britain it is 18%. (President: three minutes. Well, nothing. There's another problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33689	The word has a National MP, Rade Obradovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33690	I thank you for these clarifications, because we just wanted to hear some of those clues and know what the framework of that agreement is. You pointed out that these two things will be subject to law, one law on PIO and another law on the budgetary system and fiscal responsibility. We fully agree here, but with one serious condition, which is that these laws are respected. Will you respect the Budgetary System Act? We'll talk tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, in which all members will be further violated. Some things don't depend on you, of course. The second thing is whether it will be respected, for example, the Law on the restriction of employees in the administration. The law was passed two days ago here in the Assembly and the number of employees is limited to 28,000, which means that about 4,000 people in the Republic administration will be out of work next year. The draft budget is under discussion, and the debate is still under way, it says that at the end of 2010, the number of employees in the state administration will be 2.5 thousand. If I count well the difference between 6.5 thousand, 4,000 will be out of work, and 2.5 thousand will be more, so a total of 6.5 thousand new employees. So what's this about? We absolutely believe it will be in the law. The basic question is whether these laws will be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33691	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33692	If anyone wonders why I've spread so many papers here, I want to explain to the citizens that I want to talk about the law on the takeover of stock companies, which Mrs. Minister has spent a few sentences, and I hope it will be enough all the time to point out that this is the most important law in the set of laws we're discussing. Trust me on the word, even more important than the budget. The budget is in one year, and this proposed, non-large, amending and supplementing law will produce very large and lasting consequences that will have negative effects much longer than one year. First of all, I ask, Mrs. Comic, did we get a report from the Legislative Committee on this law? Mrs. Komic, did we get the Legislative Committee's report on this law? I don't have it in the material, I was five minutes late this morning on the way to Novi Sad – Belgrade because of this law. From the Constitution that stands here, the company law, the law of taking over companies, what is the bill of amendment of the stock fund to the stock fund, I am just telling you what I'm going to talk about. The publications published by DS in time on the rights of shareholders, your Secretary of State Slobodan Ilic, and I wish I had seen him here today, and apparently he couldn't defend the solutions to this law. Some material on the preparation of the Assembly of the Commercial Bank, a regulation you published on the 27th, before this law, and that is this organized mess on my desk that needs to explain why this law is bad and I will assure you for sure. A law has been given that has only four members of the amendment and the fifth member is in effect. It was indicative of me, because it was delivered on the 30th, at a time when we were already talking about the budget and the DRI report and we had a short deadline for amendments and we literally didn't get to read this law. Since the deadline for the amendments was today, until the beginning of the debate, we had one day off yesterday. When I saw that he was in effect the next day, and because of some negotiations that would fail with foreign investors if we didn't give them a special privileged position, I saw that it was some serious matter. It turned out to be a lot more serious than I thought. The government has delivered to us an unconstitutional law that violates at least three members. Article 84, under which all market participants have a level playing field, which violates this bill. Article 84(3), where the right acquired by investing capital under the law cannot be reduced, and here they question directly the rights of minority shareholders, which the Government calls very ignorantly small shareholders. They're not small, they're minority shareholders. Article 86, under which all forms of property are equal, and this proposal of the law, the equality guaranteed by the Constitution was literally not questioned but violated. On 27 November, the Government adopted the Regulation at its meeting of the Government and has one brief announcement on the website of the Government, where only one member is defined by the Regulation and it is not even covered by this draft amending and supplementing the law, under which the Republic of Serbia as a shareholder of the bank and persons who have the status of a professional investor, in accordance with the law governing the market for securities of value, can conclude an action agreement on joint operation without being considered to be prohibited by joint action under the Company Taking Act. I found it interesting why it says that if we knew, because important events from the congregation, such as banks, you can see the records on the sites of these organizations. For example, I have seen that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has so far had this kind of joint action with the Republic of Serbia in practical action, although it did not seek this kind of legal authority. In addition to this regulation of several interesting texts, I have seen that the takeover of stock companies, for which the right is sought here, refers to open companies that, before this takeover attempt, traded on an organised market of securities of value. So it's not about any enterprises, worthless, insignificant, but it's about one big thing. It turns out that the government is in a hurry and because of the current talks with foreign investors here says it attracts new investments, and in fact the pressures are under way that, I have a reasonable doubt, in the Commercial Bank before the recapitalisation, which has already been announced, allow the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to remain the sole owner of the Commercial Bank for some later period. What does that look like through the paperwork? You are aware that the Assembly of the Commercial Bank has made a decision on the recapitalisation, broadcasts a closed mission of actions and preferences. The plan was to lead the new action as preferential by 2013. They would then be replaced into ordinary actions with the right to manage. However, this has obviously disrupted the government's plans, but has primarily disrupted the European Bank's demands for reconstruction and development, which in fact wants to prevent such a proposal for a solution from such emissions and such capitalisation. This amendment was made to the law, which I am confident will be applied in the next step and to one insurance company, and according to that request by the World Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which gave us the first part of the 34,900,000-euro loan for the development of the private and financial sector, where we agreed to reduce participation both in the banking sector and in the insurance sector, to reduce our participation as a country. We agreed to get a loan, we agree to break the Constitution, to allow a foreign strategic investor to enter into the property of the only healthy bank that is on its own to buy other banks, because to this extent it is liquid that she doesn't need a recapitalisation of this type at all. It suits everyone with an increase in value, just work, but not so we would allow ourselves to remain without a "commercial" bank, which is the only one in a country where the state has its own participation, and that such a bank has a positive business, unlike "Postal", from "Credit", from "Development", and so on, other banks, "Serbian" banks, which do not show positive business results. Why are you doing this? This amendment of the law speaks of at least two things. On the hypocrisy of the Democratic Party as the headquarters of this coalition, which is traveling through Serbia in its own time... What was the name of the action? I had to find it when I took that bus and "The Audi"... "Serbia on the Right Path", at the time "Serbia on the Right Path", was created one such guide through a stock maze. The publisher is just the secretary, i.e. the author of the texts is Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Slobodan Ilic, our friend Slobodan Gavrilović is one of the co-authors and this is one of the three books that I have, where the right of shareholders is guaranteed, where the takeover is divided into hostile and friendly, where it is beautifully explained that the right of the shareholder to manage, sell, at the disposal of actions cannot be questioned. You're taking away shareholders from this law the right to advocate actions in such enterprises. You even call it abuse of their rights in an explanation. I really don't understand. If someone has shares, a lot of banks based on the stock of these shares give credits more favourable, as you can call abuse of my own possessions, by their action, by the action of minority shareholders. Why did you go to that extent, if the law of takeover allows you through Article 34 that whoever acquires 95% of the action can take over those other five, without any problems and by law? This disappointed our minority shareholders in the summer when "Interbro" in the Apatinian brewery took action on those small shareholders by sending them a binding offer, where, for example, in the text in "Politics", the title is "The Property Is Not Holy", one of the owners of these actions said she intended to leave these actions to her successors, and is now forced to sell them. So if we say that this is in accordance with the law, but that it does not serve to promote the financial market, share rights, and we can't say that it's a violation of the law, but what you're proposing here, it's a direct entry into the constitutional right of every citizen to have his own property called the property charter of value. How do you explain that? You say he has the right to buy shares, means the takeover bidder, in this case the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, from those shareholders who have not accepted the sale of shares and are called an incompatible shareholder. I'm saying, okay, if that's what the law says under Article 34. You can't ban him from taking action with his legal work and ban it with this law. How are you going to implement this law, if someone is willing to get a loan, the loan has not arrived and what are you going to do? What do you expect? Are you going to lock these people up? What penalty will be applied? Why isn't this good? If in the Commercial Bank you open the way by repaying your debts to those who helped you to realize your coming to power in 2000, not reform, as much as there is reform, we are all witnesses, not guilty of pensioners having problems like this in the budget, it is the one who formed power at that price, knowing that there are no real sources. So this is not the citizens' fault, it's not you, Mrs Dragutinovic, it's the one who followed the property, with the right to power and obligations of those who before him have exercised power in this country, to return services to foreign investors. It's not even the banks they only make here, because the governor allows them with his policy. They're also being helped by fiscal policy, but do citizens understand the dangers of this action when we lose the Commercial Bank as the banking system that's the blood flow of the economy? The banking system develops some branches by giving it easy credits. The banking system is suffocating some sectors by making it difficult to obtain credit. It's basic things from the economy. What's going on here? We have members of the Vienna Initiative, several banks, or from 13 countries of Europe, we have 10 banks that are here at the moment of the global financial crisis, which has started to show its bad effects on our market, so that, literally, you will not find it anywhere on the National Bank website, or in any of our professional magazines, but it can be found that these banks are members of the Vienna Initiative, realizing that it would be a problem to formulate a collective position on our market, and their position is overwhelming because it is a foreign banking system that is being run here as domestic, but it has no sense of employment, nor of the social component, nor of the responsibility of the state, it has a sense of profit only and I don't mind them, I blame the creator of the domestic banking system and leaving of the market. Since they were not allowed to act individually to protect their interests, in order not to create a psychosis that would negatively affect the entire system, the IMF, the European Commission, the countries of the environment, and Serbia with its representatives of the authorities and representatives of these private banking institutions, they had to assume their share of responsibility, see where the translation came from, and form so on. A Vienna initiative that, in order to preserve its interest in this space, had to get privileged conditions for action. These privileged conditions are expensive interest rates, these privileged conditions are even a double reserve policy because the governor gives them a kind of dinar activity that puts pressure on the course recently because the reference interest has fallen, so when someone gets used to making big profits, they don't meet a small, so low reference interest rate and because whoever comes here for profit, which is perfectly natural, takes care of their own interest and you and that single bank want to leave it to someone who will also manage their own profits, and not the interests of this market, these employees and this country. You're aware that it doesn't go on the hands of this country and that it's not good, but simply, a debt once promised must come back today. What else is interesting? The fact that such a haste leads to the fact that in the case of the Commercial Bank, we have a decline in the value of the bank's shares since the time the 10% is scheduled. The current owners of preferential actions did not get the opportunity to convert these actions into ordinary ones, meaning, in actions with the right to vote, direct damage to the property rights of minority shareholders. So far, I have said, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development voted in the Assembly with a vote agreement, which no one has disputed. The people of the Commercial Bank are responsible for claiming that they do not need the capitalisation, that they are very liquid and that they are working, and that can also be checked with the National Bank, according to their condition. This kind of planned recapitalisation that you provide them with significantly reduces the rights and the very intention that you will realize to the end, because how can you tell me that they are not damaged and that they may not be damaged, if the stock market, this indicator, has already shown a decline in the value of the action. How can you say it would be good if the Commercial Bank had one owner, if we got evidence of what this kind of banking market means where you don't have a monopoly, but you have an oligopol, let's make 13, they're agreeing on their own interest, where they take care of exposure, so they won't withdraw loans to keep their interest here? Obviously, although it has 25% ownership, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is forcing the Republic of Serbia, inter alia, to participate in the recapitalisation by means of budget funds and to get the right to fully push the Republic of Serbia out of the ownership of the Commercial Bank in the next step. I say, this is the case here, the next case is Dunav's insurance, because it is the most significant insurance house and it fits that promise to reduce the number and percentage participation in the insurance and banking houses in our country. This law is, by its own consequences, more difficult than this latest request for the approval of the loans you provided us with from the 11th of the Erste Bank, etc., even harder than the budget. The budget must exist. A year will produce consequences. This is going to be difficult for the economy to recover if we leave the last domestic liquid bank like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33693	Do any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33694	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if I avoid the finding of a merger incompatible and if I potentiate Minister Dragutinovic's statement that the essential reform of the pension system in Serbia will be in March next year, I would like to point to the SRS' visions of the current situation, as well as the potential proposals for reforming the pension disability system in Serbia, and I am sure that part of our observation, if not accepted, will at least be well considered. What is evident and we will all agree on is that the pension system is adequate and that it is dependent on both the current and future demographic, economic, financial and social factors in the country and the environment and that the overall project of pension system reform is not an isolated process, but is part of some of the overall reforms, i.e. structural reforms, macroeconomic stability and development of the capital market. Also, what it is is the fact that pension financing difficulties in Serbia occur during the 1980s, and that especially the situation has deteriorated during the 1990s, with long-term consequences. Thus, a reduction in the number of employees in the 1990s, the deep political economic crisis also affected the fall and production and employment, and a large number of people were only physically employed in state and social enterprises, through programmes led to achieve some social peace. There was a large share of the grey economy that was seen primarily in avoiding the payment of contributions or the payment of a significantly lower amount than the real one. There were also very loose conditions for retirement, especially in the disabled, large presence of corruption, affecting the number of pensioners, particularly the disabled. In addition to increasing pensioners, the structure itself has changed. Namely, the number of senior pensioners is relatively lower in other countries and is only 45% of the total number of pensioners. On the other hand, the number of disabled pensioners accounts for as much as 30% and family 25% of total pensioners, which is above the usual indicators in other countries. For comparative purposes, it can be said that in most countries, the number of senior pensioners accounts for 60 to 80%, the number of disabled pensioners 10% of total pensioners, while the rest are family pensioners. The fact is that in Serbia, this unfavourable demographic factor, i.e. the ageing of the population and the low fertility rate and Serbia, is among the oldest countries in the world, is third in some studies. Also, the fertility rate is only 1.4%, which prevents even a simple replacement. What is also evident is the fact that both political reasons were present, i.e. pensioners are one group of electoral bodies, and this large electoral body, and so was the subject of various manipulations and benefits, which further deepened the problem. What may be most important, in the end, is something that the SRS has so far shown countless times, which is the fact that there have been non-intentional income spending based on contributions, and some studies even show that pension-involvement funds in the past 30 years have practically shared that money for the construction of various rehabilitation centres, banana resorts, etc., and that the money for investments has obviously never returned, which only speaks of the rentability of undertaken projects. The current pension system in Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, operates on a principle known as the PSGO, i.e. by the intergenerational solidarity system, in which current incomes from contributions and income from employees and employers are financed by current expenditures for pensioners, users, replacing insufficient revenues from contributions from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Due to insufficient income from the contributions of employees and employers in the Republic of Serbia, the state has been emerging for a number of years as a necessary co-financer from the funds of general current budget revenues or from some unpopular sources, such as specific taxes on individual products and privatisation revenues, which, truth be told, are growing year by year. The reason for this was enough, and perhaps the most important fact is that the birth rate of the population of Serbia is in constant decline, with the constant growth of the average length of life of the population, which has also caused progressive growth of old people's participations in the overall population, relaxation of conditions for obtaining pensions based on different benefits, liberalisation of conditions in determining the level of pension base, strong influence of the political power of unions and pension associations, and most importantly, the fact that in the current period, the number of employees declines relative to the number of pensioners, as a result of the general trend of ageing population, on one side, but also of a serious problem created precisely due to restructuring and privatisation and large redundancies of workers as a technological surplus, due to bankruptcy, liquidation of businesses etc. With one trend of constant deterioration present, all of which points to a rather problematic pension system situation in Serbia. All of this is caused by a constant deficit of the public pension fund, which is persistently compensated from the current budget. What I want to point out on this occasion is the fact that in the end line, the burden of this kind of financed public pension programme of Serbia will be borne by taxpayers and that, in the future, the number of employees and the number of pensioners who are already quite alarming will be increased by 1:1,2. Tax obligations and budget expenditures will be huge and will inevitably have to speed up the essential reform of the existing pension system. What can be a problem is that when it comes to reforming the public pension and disability system, experience and some practical solutions, especially in countries in transition as Serbia is, practically and not. However, some of the measures that need to be implemented and can be implemented in due time are primarily its consolidation in terms of regulation of relations, administrative consolidation relating to the regulation of conditions of retirement, as well as the rationalisation of the pension ratio. The second stage, what is quite equally important, is the financial consolidation that would primarily relate to the gradual transformation and capitalisation of the pension and disability fund. Based on the specificity of the existing PIO system in the Republic of Serbia, based on the experience of transition countries, as well as the proposal of one part of the expert public, one of the most acceptable ideas at the moment, in the consolidation of the current concept could be the modification of the existing system. This would, on the one hand, mitigate the negativity of the existing concept, and on the other hand, preserve some of the good things that would ensure at least a minimum of social security. Let me just remind you, about eight years ago when the adoption of that amendment and the addition of the Law on PIO was defined as the rate of contribution. A retirement age has been raised. Retirement growth is consistent with price growth at low and profit growth. It's that so-called. Swiss model, and the minimum pension was 20% of gross average earnings. The rate of contributions and the basis on which PIO is paid is the same for both workers and employers. The basis for the payment of the contribution shall consist of earnings and profits, i.e. agreed fees and other fees. There has been a reduction in the contribution rate, but this was necessary in order to reduce labour costs and achieve the competitiveness of our businesses due to market liberalisation. If I'm not mistaken, in 2003 we had the adoption of the Law on PIO, where instead of the most favourable 10 years, a full-time job internship was taken as a basis for calculating pensions. Two years later, the Serbian Parliament adopted a package of new PIO laws. What was most significant was the part about the age pension rights, when it was raised, certain transitional solutions were defined. The next important factor in this whole story is the fact that nearly two years ago, the unification of all three PIO funds formed a new single PIO public fund, which has legal personality status with three sub-accounts by 1 January 2011. The united fund has a total of two and a half million insurance companies, of which one million and 800,000 employees, 300,000 independent craftsmen and about 325 thousand farmers. The single pension fund covers just over a million and a half users, a million and 300,000 pensioners and former employees and about 50,000 retired privates, and 229 thousand businesses receiving pensions. The reasons for the administrative consolidation and the arguments that were then known to unite the pension funds that had been settled many times were that the PIO Act is unique, that it applies to all insurance companies regardless of where the fund was secured. That, in the same way, all insurance companies were able to exercise their rights relating to the determination of the level and harmonisation of pensions, regardless of the insurance. But it was illogical that, since all PIO obligations were implemented in a unique way or governed by unique laws, there are three funds with special systems for about two-and-a-half million insurance companies and about a million and 600 thousand users with special systems, special general acts, programmes, plans and the like. This was considered to contribute to improving the quality of services to current and future pension users, using all available capacities, etc. However, it is obvious that Serbia's budget faces pension pressures on both sides. First, the working-age population decreases and thus reduces social security contributions. Secondly, there is a sharp increase in the number of retired workers who are entitled to pensions in this existing financing system. And most of the budget transfers to the pension system are directed precisely to cover pension funds deficits. Part of these transfers is used for payment of the right, i.e. parts of pensions provided by funds in the budget in accordance with the law. What is interesting is that in 2007, the pension fund financed a pension payment of 63.2% from regular sources, or contributions, and the rest 24.8% from grants, or taxes. Budget expenditure for the pension system is around 14% of GDP, and the value of budget transfers to the pension system was 6% of GDP. The situation of additionally increased budget expenditure complicates budget financing, practically a grey economy, as some say about 35% of the workforce works in a gray zone, where employers do not report employees' salaries or report a minimumer and the rest pay off. The authorities of the administration that need to eradicate the gray economy don't function. In an indirect way, costs are generated, salaries to officials of various inspections who practically do not work in the way they are expected to do so, and by detaching from the budget on the burden of taxpayers to complement the necessary funds for the payment of current pensions. What is one possible way to overcome the current situation, as it obviously gives this concept in Serbia unsustainable. In the SRS' view, the existing system is in a short-term crisis that is manifested in this deficit financing, but with a tendency to challenge the long-term crisis, which is conditioned, among other things, and these demographic reasons. The assumption of the consolidation of funds is to reduce budget transfers to cover deficits in funds that use these transfers. The reduction or total exclusion of budget transfers in the funds used to cover the deficit is possible only with the improvement of trust-dependence ratios, which are deficiently financed. The regular payment of pensions in funds financed in part from budget appraisals is also conditioned by the inflow of funds into the budget, which means the dependence of beneficiaries of the rights on the financial discipline of all taxpayers. What could be a solution is, i.e. as a solution to one sustainable development, the capitalisation of the Republic Fund of PIO. Which would actually mean capitalization of the fund. In the SRS' view, it would lead to the creation of a PIO fund, according to the reputation of funds in developed countries with the attributes of an investment fund that will be able to function out of its own resources, which is why it was founded, and of course, it is a regular pension payment to its insurance companies. The State's energy would be reduced to a regulatory and control function with minimal interventions. The first prerequisite to achieve this and to successfully function as an investment fund is precisely the property it has, starting with the real estate of law, securities of value, shares and the like. The investment policy of this kind of fund, according to some experiences, should be strictly regulated and subject to rigorous control by competent state institutions. Such assets, therefore formed capital from assets could be invested under strictly defined conditions, and the selection of investment alternatives in the initial period until the capital market rate, which I was talking about at the beginning, would include state charters of value of a different spectrum of manuals, while classical investment forms would not be allowed. This approach to investment would be certain about the risk, but at the very beginning, it would bring less revenue. In a later phase of the development of the capital market, it would also likely expand the investment spectrum into more attractive charters than higher yields. In this way, the PIO Fund would be partially transformed into an institutional pension fund with all the rights and obligations arising from the Investment Funds Act. This transformation would allow the fund to be partially privatised and part of the funds needed to pay off current pensions would continue to be secured from the contribution and part of the capitalised assets, thereby reducing the direct pressure budget, with a tendency to build a sustainable and efficient financing mechanism for current pensions. What is unequivocally unequivocal is that only an economically sustainable and fiscally tolerated pension system is in the development function and that it is practically one of the first-class national interests and that the state of Serbia needs such a system that will be acceptable, therefore to current and future generations, which will not be conditioned by any demographic, but exclusively by economic movements. The consolidation of public pension funds in Serbia, the indexation of pension rates with the growth of average earnings, the definition of minimum pension levels, are therefore not only a matter of one-time and administrative approach, but also a crucial issue of the overall reform of the pension system that should go towards reducing budget transfers and introducing the system I was talking about. So what's the problem, is that economic reforms, transitions at the moment are the most affected by the pension population, with a tendency to further deteriorate due to macroeconomic instability, but also political instability, as well as the announced restrictive measures in the area of public spending. In this way, it seems that the oldest population and the most difficult to bear the burden of transition, especially in view of what was agreed in the talks with the IMF, with some analyses of economic developments in the next year, 2011 and 2012, it is clear that the solution to the problem of the pension system of Serbia is in what I was saying. As for us personally, we believe that this reform should be carried out by people who will have at least some of the indicators we talked about. We feel it is not good for reform to deal with those who are in a direct or indirect way "deserved" to the situation where the pension fund of Serbia is located at the moment, and we wish that... (President: 20 minutes. I'm done. ... through some of the notes I made, we pointed to one true path that would, above all, allow pensioners to live the life of a decent man.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33695	Do any of the other representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted the parliamentary groups of New Serbia, LDP, DSS, Advanced Serbia and the SRS. I give my word to Mrs. Golden Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33696	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, the Honorable Madam Minister, above all, by uniting agendas and laws that are incompatible with discussing them together, shows a very non-chalant government relationship at such a serious moment in Serbia. I think the pensioners deserve to at least discuss them as a special item of the agenda, that it's not just flirting, although these are two members who are not destined for them at the moment, because their situation is not pink, that it's not global warming, I'm afraid these winters would be pretty frozen, not just pensions, but they too. I have to ask one question, when we talk about pensioners and pensions -- what about those long peasants whose pensions are far less than the lowest social benefits, when they can hope for it, or are we really going to leave them as second-class citizens, completely marginalized in all possible financial transactions in this budget? The second thing I wanted to talk about, it's a bill on amendments and additions to the Financial Support Act for the family with children. It is a law in which some changes have been introduced that need to solve some problems, which were not satisfactory in an earlier legal solution. However, I cannot approve Mrs. Minister's argument, which said that the motives for adopting this law are to encourage birth, to encourage responsible parenting. If someone's motive for parenting is social giving, then imagine how sad the birth and childhood of those children will be. So it can't be an incentive to do that, but it should be a solution to a serious social problem that we have and that should really be supporting family with children. But real support for a family with children is a working parent. This should be the priority of this budget, it should be the government's priority and all the legal solutions and projects that come before this parliament. So, the only real and sincere support for the family with children is to allow the family to have a job, to have this job neatly and as much money as possible, so that parents can get right on the roof over their children's heads, that children have a perspective on their education, and then it's the real support of the country's family with children. A country that has many children has a future. We know we have serious birth problems, like the state. It is not a problem, unfortunately, only Serbia, it is the problem of many societies, but we should deal with, within our own home, our own problem. There should be fostered both responsible parenting and responsible state that wants to have a future and that we are not satisfied with just those surveys that say that in 50 years, Serbs will not be. So that's what maybe you should get a glimpse of in one of these laws. But what makes it impossible for the right solution and the real result of these laws in life is this budget. The budget is as big as it is, it's never enough. Economists seek different names for the budget to be baptized, so to make it easier to endure, easier than some therapy, they say: developmental, reformal, social or restrictive. None of that, and looking at it from the citizens' point of view alone, I couldn't recognize it, except that it was small, modest and that it would probably be even more modest when it went into realisation, but I recognized a few of the members that were to be talked about and probably talked about in the principle debate on Saturday, where the government is looking pretty much at this draft budget law for free hands for consumption, in its own way and with such modest means. Budget isn't government property, it's not government profits, the government isn't a firm, I hope, for now. The government has no right to spend it as it imagines without asking citizens indirectly through this high house, through parliament. The budget is the property of Serbian citizens and they only put it to the government's confidence that it has a responsibility. Although the government is demanding that he be able to get this law freed, in Article 10, say, or in article 19 where he can write off some funds. What gives her the right to write off any means? They're not that, I'm saying it's not to get the government these are the resources of the citizens. Or in Article 26, that a minister can almost have a private budget in some agreement with some local community secretaries or any part of the budget, then the government does not have the best intentions for citizens and then these social motives are being questioned because there will be no means to help the family with children in the right way. I'm just going to be so free to say that in the end, I've drawn one conclusion from all these possible budget names that as last year's, and when it's here on the agenda, it's going to show us whether we were right, this law is going to be pretty, budget law, rounding up. It'll be sad, but we'll see how his realization begins. So what is inadmissible is, I say, a debate of six points of the agenda as one. A brief, quick, modestly explained, inconclusive, with feeling and even with a little shame, that's what has to go through, New Year's coming, everyone's going to forget something, not a lot to talk about, the general debate on the budget put in after two days off Saturday, when they won't be able to see it just like that, they have Saturdays, you know, those personal, family and other obligations. Behind all these points, where the family and children deserve, because it is still the largest part of Serbia, that one day it is only debated, that together we from the opposition and from the ruling party share the views of our communities, our cities, our fellow citizens who have obliged us with their ballots and tasked us from this place to speak on their behalf, to say what we think. Maybe we can change some things, maybe take a different strategy, maybe help the government really turn, not just declaratively, but a whole family strategy with children, make Serbia a whole big family with lots of children. What I said, that's our future. I am afraid that in these five points, the first ones that preceded the important ones are so important that this sixth -- the bill on the debt of the Republic of Serbia to the Eurobank of the EFG of Belgrade, which the government has submitted, because we need to be in charge of another $25m, these same children we offer this social assistance to, we will assign them to or their parents, so we will see how it will reflect. So at each point in the agenda or at least at each other point in the agenda, we bring some new responsibility. I fear that in the search for the Serbian brand, we have made a new brand of debt, debt and borrowing, as it has succeeded in making a brand of hunger through the media and that we are now almost transparently showing, instead of being ashamed of it and dealing with it as quickly as possible, almost a million hungry citizens, 700,000 hungry citizens, and that we are constantly declaring folk cuisine what is necessary and necessary. Let's remember that ten years ago, in some other war conditions, we accused the president of the state as the main culprit for the existence of folk cuisine, now we've raised it to some pedestal, almost proud. Therefore, we really expect that on such important topics as family with children, such as pensioners, peasants or pensioners in the country, our farmers, our couples deserve a special point of the agenda, indeed once they sit down and ask parliament what they need, how to help them, how to find their place in this budget, because they have created this budget, and not only bring them ready solutions in which there are always good solutions and good intentions, and there are insufficient solutions. Maybe they know better than everyone else in the government and better than all of us, what's the real problem, how to solve it. Maybe they help everyone focus and make this Serbia with the children better.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33697	Mrs. Vesna Pesic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33698	Dear colleagues, dear Mrs Dragutinovic, I think you've given one truly great truth today, which is that this budget deficit is a structural problem. I have to remind you that every year, at least for the third or fourth time I've been involved in this, every time we've told you that there's a trade deficit, so the external deficit, as well as this internal, fiscal deficit, is a constant structural deficit. Now you're going out with it, we used to say it all the time, and now you said it. When you say something is structural, I'll explain to you, both citizens and colleagues what it means. That means that the economic logic here hasn't changed since Joseph Broz Tito's period. What's that logic? That logic is always the same as when you stand on top of a mountain, when you're doing well, then you go down, you go down the hill, you bang like that drunk millionaire in a pub, you leave nothing on the side, you spend more than you have, that's the logic. Well, then, either we're going out of loans to loans, like we're going to do now, so let's borrow. Remember when Tito died in the '80s, there was nothing. We were sitting in the dark, no coffee, no butter, nothing, nothing, nothing because we had debts. So for a while now we were going to sell, we kept saying it, by privatizing, where it was sold for nothing, sometimes more, sometimes less. And what's the matter? You don't have any money in that privatisation fund right now. Where's the money? So, downhill, you've spent, you've left nothing on the side, so when there's a tap, over there by the big ones, that we have some backup. But you've been writing it all down in various ways, and that's the logic. As far as I can tell, you have no intention of changing that logic at all. Because you see what this budget is saying? When you look at yourself, so I'm going straight to retirement, so I don't miss out on the subject, you see, when we look at this income budget of yours is one poor budget, it's a very small budget. See how big the budget is in Croatia, twice as big as in Serbia, and Serbia is twice as big as in Croatia. It's small budgets, it's nothing. When you see how much he's going to retire, so that's exactly how much we're a big poor girl, it just proves that you have to cover what it means, our economy is this big, that's like a nail. How can this economy cover it, these pensions? Of course it can't be covered, because the logic is that – how big is employment, pension funds are flow boilers, those who work are paying and pensions are paid out of it. Since this economy is so small, it is seen by your incomes, then of course there is nothing to pay out of pensions. But you're not showing us how this structural problem is going to be solved in the future, we have no idea. Your prime minister, what is particularly shaking me, the optimism that is being sold here is one offensive optimism. When we say what those ministers are doing, what we need so many ministries to do, let's get laid, you didn't accept it. He says, "I don't want to change the winning team." Well, where you win, give an example where that team wins. Or when he says -- in the next year, 2011, there will be 3% of the growth, it will immediately defrost everything, pensions and wages. Well, what kind of statements are these? In order for anything to happen here, we have to, as you know, we don't need you as an economist to learn that, that without at least 6% of the growth, we can't drive. No driving without it. You're gonna end up taking these pensioners off that budget or letting them starve, as you're probably going to have to do at the end, and employment growth isn't going to follow. You have to at least increase it, and there's no plan. That's the point of that question, and then when I say optimism is spreading, ministers are doing well; they're not doing well, I'll tell you why. Because what you're talking about today, when it comes to reforming the pension system, because that reform can't be very radical, if we're already saying that it depends on employment, on economic growth, and the ideas, the plan doesn't have anything to do with it, I can tell you that politics was also completely inadequate. First, why did you leave that benefit? Is that so hard to change? Who do you have to talk to? Let's say, I hear, you've got a general in the army, a rapping horse, and they're going to retire any minute now. I hear about General Ponoš, a young man, 40 years old, says – pensions are very often a political category with us, infants, generals, as soon as they fall into disrepair they retire, and these are big pensions. You have pensions as a political category. Whoever resents the authorities is making him retire, especially in such a state service, towards retirement. Secondly, you had a corrupt retirement. Here, please, I won't say anything against my wife, and Danica Draskovic is a 30-year-old pensioner. What's wrong with her? A horse's tail to rip out day and day. You're disabled pensioners... How many are there? Did you see that the Italians found that supposedly a disabled person who's blind, but not blind, is driving a bus. You had that category -- corruptive...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33699	Mrs. Pesic, I apologize, but I would like you to keep the category and the personal orientation of your personal views, which have some pejoratiness, to yourself. I would ask you not to mention Mrs. Danica Draskovic in this connotation, it's not right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33700	I'm sorry, I didn't mean to insult you, but I just wanted to...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33701	You'll have to re-apply, I'm sorry, although we're recording the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33702	It was absolutely not about that, I just cited examples that we know from the public, but how much was it that we didn't know at all. She used to retire... In the end, pensions are also used in unsuccessful privatisations. Wherever you were supposed to be, you'd shut down and make people retire, with those severances of young people leaving. You could have, if you were worth it, if the ministries were doing it right, you could have done some of the things that can be fixed, if we don't know how we're going to grow, it's a big enigma, and we don't know, we don't think about it, we don't know, we don't know, but these things that I just mentioned, we could have fixed it. What's the benefit of an internship? We could see how many corrupt pensioners, we could see other things, and we could end political pensions, and we could stop solving more issues of failed businesses, so you'd get people to retire. It's part of the policy that's been going on. That policy could have been repaired by now. What reason did you have so far not to fix that policy? If we can't fix this right now, and we could fix this... There's one more thing to tell you, and that's the third thing. When it comes to pensions, there's chaos. Not only was this one policy, but now I'm talking about a chaotic state, which has no reason to exist. Why was there once a SDK? Because they couldn't pay their pensions anywhere, or pay, if they didn't make the payments. Now we've got people on those railroads standing there who don't get paid for health care. Public enterprises, please, don't invest in funds. They're disabling, so we've had cases like this, then they won't give us information in public that they don't pay people's pensions. It's not just about the pensioners. Believe me, all my younger, our children, which is said to be another generation, who is 30, 40 years old, no one has a pension. What's going to happen to them? They're working, but no one's hiring them. They don't have an internship, and they're 40 and 45. What's going to happen to them one day? Of course, as the third chaos you failed to solve, it's a gray economy. We've got a lot of chaos you haven't been able to solve. I don't even know what you're planning to do today, how to fill that budget, how to make contributions have to be paid, we knew at least once, whatever the system was, but the contributions had to be paid. You have chaos, non-payment of contributions, and you control these private enterprises, or you control public enterprises. When we look at it, you'll probably have to go to that system, get off the pension budget, but it won't follow your employment, so you can transfer to the pension fund, and then what happens, it'll be likely that the pensions will fall to a much lower branch in the future, and you probably don't have the courage to say it now. If you take it out of the budget, which would be logical, you have to show us, and you're sure to do that, that's what you agreed with the IMF, to show us how this second, economic growth is going to start happening. As far as I can tell, the government is waiting to ease this crisis a little bit and immediately that skiing starts again, to the top, to push forward, to climb downhill, we won't change anything. You can't see the spirit that's being carried out on that "win team," as he thinks when it goes down, here's what we did, and we got this. There's no reason to delay any structural reforms. We could have had them today and we could have included them for the 2010 budget, that we were sitting down, that the ministers were working hard. They didn't work enough and then we keep delaying these structural changes, waiting for the crisis to go on and on. I'd like to say this in the end, when it comes to small shareholders. I agree with some predecessors that when it comes to small shareholders, it really violates the Constitution because there is some preference of property, which is really unacceptable. Anyone who holds any property, holds any property, there's no way you can take any more private property. If she's big or small, it's not our place to do it. This is something that we have really had more problems with both "Yugormedia" and in a number of these, that small shareholders are being kidnapped, and these are workers. It's your social responsibility government to kidnap workers and citizens that little action they got, and that's what they need to be kidnapped. As you can see, there is no Socially Responsible Government. This poor budget to cover what needs to be covered. Unfortunately, it can't be seen that this budget will ever have one normal income, that it will be a normal budget and that the expenditure will not be higher. Let me ask you, last time you're planning, what were we looking for earlier, when we had those huge privatisations, when you're planning a surplus? Is there a plan, do we have a fiscal surplus in the budget or no plan for a fiscal surplus? It's only the day we have the surplus, then we've solved it and started getting out of these structural problems, but for now I don't see it happening at all. It's not about someone arguing with the pensioners. After all, I'm retired already, there's no reason to talk, but it's said that they don't solve structural issues so that they never really get rid of each other. Please stop that practice and start thinking not only about how you've jumped everything this year, but about showing up next year and showing real indicators of what life in this country will look like. Believe me, the citizens are very upset by this way to show us a piece of this size, and across the day, a flood. There's no way, if you charge yourself at this rate, like Tito did, we'll be like 1980 when he died, God forbid someone dies, lose power, no electricity, no toilet paper, no coffee, and that's what life in this country will look like. There's no room for optimism, there's no room for it, but for you to roll up your sleeves, cut down your ministries, get in your head, and everything we've been drowning with those officers here, administratively, we've been standing up, now we see you're increasing that number... Your reform of the state administration as a key factor of development, that's where you broke, you didn't do anything. What are those laws we've been making, that we've been harassed by so many laws, when you're increasing the administration? Apparently, you want to fire some people out there who don't suit you and take in others. It says -- the guillotine of the law brings in 200 million in the budget, but we've introduced 1,000 new ones. So you didn't even guillotine it. I ask you, on the one hand, to be a poor thing, and on the other hand, you let the wasteful part get in line, so that it lives up to some gobber as it is, but then it has to be true for everyone and everyone has to roll up their sleeves and not leave these reforms and structural issues all the time for tomorrow and the day after tomorrow and that we keep talking about the same subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33703	Mr. Miroslav Petkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33704	Dear Madam President, the honourable Mrs Dragutinovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, your Excellency, PUPS MPs, the 2009 budget and the budget rebalance of that budget have shown what is and what is the price of the ruling coalition. The price is very high and is paid by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sure you were aware then that the projected revenues would not come true, as you were sure you'd spend more than you predicted. When you explained the 2009 budget, we made it clear that it was impossible to increase pensions at the same time and invest in infrastructure. Then you didn't believe us, and now you're aware that you were wrong. At the time, you said that in 2009 the pensions and fees will not be adjusted, but will be paid as of October 2008. In April, pension spending rose from 189.3 billion dinars to 213.2 billion dinars. Pensions were frozen at that time and were 65% of the average salary. That's when the pensions had money, and the students had no money. I remind you that even then, the DSS passed a law on higher education, which you never put on the agenda. Both with and without a crisis, pension expenditures in Serbia measured in percentages of gross social products are much higher than in other countries in the region, as the state spends the most on these pensions. The so-called intergenerational solidarity system, i.e. the first pillar, implies that the payment of pension contributions by employees is financed by current pensions for which normal functioning is necessary for the relationship between employees and pensioners to be 3.5 : 1. Let me remind you that in Serbia this relationship was last applied in 1981. We now have less than two million employees in Serbia, and a million and 600,000 pensioners. The forecasts are that in 2010, the number of pensioners will increase by 2%. Where are we today, December 14, 2009? I remind you, Mrs Dragutinovic, that tomorrow is a wonderful day, December 15th, and that the parties of the ruling coalition have broken their pre-election promises I cannot justify and that they have made you break the Budgetary System Act again, because the government did not submit the draft budget on October 15th, the government did not submit the draft budget on November 1st, and it is obvious that the budget will not be voted tomorrow, December 15th, as the law provides. The bill abolishes the right to two annual pension adjustments in 2010 and predicts that pensions do not rise by a single dollar for another year. Why? Because they were rapidly increased in October 2008 by 10%. At the time, we told you that it was unsustainable and that the result of the packing of the nakaradic majority of the general population would feel the best millions and 600,000 pensioners on their skin. How? Nothing since the pension increase until 1 April 2011. At this point, the average pension is 21,000 dinars. The average agricultural pension is 8,000 dinars. According to the June data, which I found, 51 pensioners in this country receive a pension of more than 103,000 dinars, but what is saddest is that hundreds of thousands of pensioners receive a pension of less than 11,000 dinars. Pensions will remain the same in next year. Here it has since 2008, when it was 78 dinars, grown to 96 dinars. When we add the inflation rate and the announced electricity collection, which is expected by all citizens, including pensioners, as of 1 January 2010, at 10%, it clearly says when pensioners get a pension check what they can do with that money. PUPS MP Mr. Peric said on Saturday that the party is now insisting on reforming the pension system and passing a new law. Mrs Dragutinovic, you said there was a need to pass laws that would reduce the inflow of new pensioners, but when. In two weeks she will be happy New Year's Eve, in the hall of the House of the National Assembly we will have a tree of 10 meters and a string orchestra. This coalition was in power in 2008 and 2009, and now enters the third year, in 2010, and the results are that the state is falling apart, and you will in the New Year's. You're announcing a new law, and for all these years on paper, we don't even have a predicate of that law. There are some three working groups working in three different areas and the results are zero, as will be an increase in pension next year. I remind you that the condition for PUPS to enter the ruling coalition was an increase in pensions by 10%, an increase in pension funds. This increase was foreseen linearly, according to all pensioners. So he who has 103,000, who will increase his pension by 10,000 and the martyr who has 11,000 and whose pension will increase by just a thousand dinars. We know that pensions stand out 15% of GDP. Math is clear. Of the 30 billion, 15% is 4.5 billion euros. Ten per cent of 4.5 billion is 450m euros. It's a little bit of a crisis. Some of you later came to the Assembly, your president who swore in his seat to protect the pensioners, went to the government, and 1,300 of your activists were placed on boards and now shut up because the crisis and nothing can be helped. Now you're saying the budget you're proposing is developmental. A development that will separate more than 30% of the income precisely to subsidize the pension system in which we have heard some of the funds hidden by other ministries. In order for citizens not to get the wrong idea, this is not an attack on pensioners, nor on those who voted for PUPS, nor on a larger number who voted for DS. My parents are pensioners, relatives, my neighbors. I'll be free to say that I want all pensioners to receive their pension as long as possible, no matter how much it is. These are just facts that speak of incompetent authority. If this is the Socially Responsible Government, where is the Prime Minister today to explain to us why this is the situation? When we discussed budget rebalancing, Prime Minister, Mr. Cvetkovic was on vacation, he's probably on a ski trip right now. This is a criticism of those who favor the interests of pensioners, and in time we spoke to you and showed you what kind of breakdowns in society this decision of yours can produce. Did you promise them this? Of course not. But nobody said anything about tears or sweat. Do you know what can only save you, but in the short term? New elections, then false promises and salaries and pensions and subsidies and new jobs will begin again. I guess I'll have a problem next year, because there's going to be a lot of highways that I'm going to go to Cachac, so I can attack Kruševac, mild to me, and maybe you can find oil in the meantime. A message for young people, students and graduate academics - you are not in the draft budget. In a thousand pages, there are no new jobs in two kilos of paper anywhere. This envisions a million 823 thousand employees, as many as were in this year, according to projections, to be in the following year. Not a single new job, let alone a new 200,000. I fear that after December 18th, when visas have been lifted and the rivers of young people are moving out of this country because they do not see a future here with such an incompetent government, there will be no one left in Serbia to turn off the light.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33705	The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33706	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be based on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children and on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt. As is well known, the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children was adopted on 2 April 2002, and in 2005, he experienced first changes and additions and, as such, in force from 1 January 2006, here these days he is experiencing his second amendment through the new 13 members in the proposal for new amendments and additions or new 13 members of this law. The law itself represents part of the social care system for children and families in the area of funding and financial support for families with children. It is not only part of social policy, but also an important instrument of population policy, starting with demographic needs. The law clearly defines two direct goals, and this is the first one - the mitigation of inequality in the standard of living of families with children who belong to different material strategists and the reduction of parenting costs. Serbia's high birth rate does not record nearly any municipalities in Serbia. Unfortunately, it is almost different in a proposed way, I am talking about a law adopted in 2002, supporting the concept of human rights and equality of the position of all citizens throughout the territory of RS, and that is quite a good thing of the 2002 law. The law defines the following rights to the financial support of families with children, in terms of maternity leave compensation, leave of work for the care or special care of children, parental allowance rights, child allowance rights and stay compensation for children without parental ageing and children distracted by development, as well as the regression of the cost of stay in preschool institution of children from a materially endangered family. In all areas of life it is also necessary to respect world standards. Unfortunately, we are not a country of high birth, and it is therefore interesting why we respect the World Health Organization's recommendation, which says that the maximum number of children in the family up to four and to this extent the RS respected this recommendation, so that the existing Financial Support Act has also installed a recommendation of provisions and rights relating only to the family with maximum four children. In view of that fact, all families with a higher number of children were, automatically and children born after the fourth, discriminated against because for children after the fourth, except, as the law states, if the birth of twins or more children followed after the third child, this law and members of this law in terms of certain financial compensations are indeed discriminatory and this is the main observation of the SNS. We wonder why the Republic Protector of the Rights of the Child has not called on this question. That there are different practices in the world, say examples of different uses, height and compensation for children's allowance, such as Austria, Bulgaria, Denmark, Russia, Slovenia and Spain, where children's allowance does not depend on the order of birth of children and, say, examples in Belgium, France, Greece, Poland, Finland where children's allowance grows with the order of birth of children. It should be stressed that measures of financial support to the family will not bring the desired results until the trends of discrimination in the field of employment and labour are lifted. I think about women here primarily. There is also a new trend in political employment, where if you are not close to a particular political group, or you cannot get any job. Then, the pay gap between female and male labor. The particular problem is that cases of discrimination can be hard to prove. It is a rare example that complaints are sent to the resolution ministry. I must point out another example of discrimination through the form of aid, i.e. an out-of-body fertilisation funding programme. Since many couples are excluded from the process of the financial compensation programme, since after the date of integration they cross the age line, and here they do not take into account the date of submission for this type of aid and regarding this matter it is necessary to change the age limit, which in this case is 35 years to at least 38 years or 40 years, because practice in Serbia about when marriage is spoken in favour of the last argument. It cannot be said that the original Law on financial assistance to the family with children and some supplements did not bring positive changes, but we believe that there are necessary and additional changes, not only because these changes and additions are planned, in the interest of quality narrowing down the white plague strategy in Serbia, and given this strategy, it is necessary to bring the provisions of this law into line. What else is going on in practice? Municipal services, we know for ourselves, are very unsupervised, slow sometimes. They don't tell you anything. Sometimes they don't tell you the most important things, and that's how it happens that the information chain always lacks information that will get you on the right track. The biggest problem, God forbid if some law like this changes and complements, if it changes that families who are unable to use the Internet are really in handicap, given information in the field of change and changes in certain laws. The same situation happens in homes of health, hospitals, and municipal administrations, where you have to drag the officers by the sleeves, and with all that you have the baby in your hands and you need some information. The problem of cutting deadlines for submitting documents from 12 to three months is a particularly important problem, and we think that the deadline that you have proposed in the amendments to this law is also short. In the light of the amendments that we have submitted and I hope you will accept these amendments to that area, because this problem is touched by a very large number of families for a simple reason that six months is not quite enough, especially for families who have a newborn child, who, for example, have certain health problems and after birth stay for a long period in the hospital. It is impossible for the law to propose a three-month period, and with your changes and additions six months, to collect the necessary documentation, and we know that without a hospital release list, or health homes cannot even remove copies from the birth certificate, given that document, all other documents are submitted in order to make the financial compensation programme come true. This specifically applies to the parental allowance, since the untimely submission of the documentation within the legal deadline means the loss of the right to compensation i.e. to a parenting supplement. I'll give you a part of the example. It's probably part of you, if there was a Minister of Labour and Social Policy, you'd probably know what I'm talking about, referred to part of the Milivoje Mic - Mandic Foundation, now the Stara Raška Foundation, which really has a number of positive actions in the Sandzak area, i.e. The old Raška, and the Muslim population and the Serb population, and thanks to the actions of the foundation and its president, Mr Vučićevic, in the municipalities of Prepolje, Sjenica, Nova Varoš has been concluded in the last two years over a hundred marriages between Serbs and Albanians that do not have Serbian citizenship. Because of the legal blindness of this family, they remain deprived of parental allowance. For the first child, I have to mention these figures for the public, 26663 dinars, for the second child of 104,266 dinars, third child of 187,670 dinars and fourth child of 250,224 dinars. This money in Serbia, and you have to admit especially in such a dump, I apologize for these words, such as Peshter means a very great fortune. An example, for example, of two brothers who are married to Albanians from the region of Shkodra and who are raising four children in harsh conditions on a poor and stuck cave in the village of Budzhevo on the same roof. You can imagine how much money this family is denied for, it's the Matovic family, and we're talking about a strategy to reduce the white plague and we're fighting that our villages aren't closed. Really, you have to admit, there's no comment on these things. It is children who are automatically becoming Serbian citizens, but mothers are not, which is necessary in order to legally acquire the right to a parental allowance. The law stipulates that the parental supplement is achieved by the mother of the child, but the most important condition is that she is a Serbian citizen, and this is related to over a hundred families in this area, and in other cases in Serbia is not the case. This is another example that, unfortunately, the laws we propose and the laws we adopt here in this esteemed home do not really follow life in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Children whose mothers don't have our citizenship are deprived of the rights that all the other little ones have. Women like Albanian brides are not in a better situation either. In order to gain Serbian citizenship, they must spend at least three years in a marriage union with a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Why is the state and all the laws so discriminatory towards the citizens of Serbia? Why, in another case, was Mr Dacic's assessment of the interior minister enough for Adrian Lima to say – that Mark Jaric and that given the situation and that she does not live in Serbia, we really have nothing against it so that it is not misunderstood, she gets Serbian citizenship by accelerated procedure, and Serbian children's mothers on the Cave and in other parts of Serbia are being controversial. In order to exercise the right to a child's supplement, it is necessary to collect 12 important documents and now I would really not want to express what forms they are, because it would take a while. If it is necessary to show and prove the special status of the child, it is necessary to collect, in addition to these 12 other four to seven papers. All these papers, requests, forms, confirmations, evidence in their greatest part must be paid. This procedure costs money. Do you think this really isn't too much, given the anti-white plague strategy in Serbia and given the really very long process and the situation that for a period of three and six months, it is very short to collect this documentation. The most important aspect of discrimination on children's supplements is that it is achieved on the first four children. In the end, when, after the great cost, the effort and impediment of the municipal administration in the homes of health and hospitals, you get through all these situations, you manage to collect all the necessary documentation and do all the things we talked about, that money that comes in the form of a child's allowance with, unfortunately, a great delay, a great time period of delay, is not, and you need to know and probably take care of it, and to not allow enough of this situation, it is not enough for a child to get juice and snack for a month. I'm not talking about books, wardrobes or even the situation where one of the ministers says there are too many champions in Serbia and that a sufficient number of free books can't be provided for all of them. So much for the white plague strategy in the Republic of Serbia. Here, we must not forget the censorship that is probably low to exercise the right to a child's allowance. I would now be based on amendments and additions to the Public Debt Act. It is well known to all and it is common knowledge that public finances in Serbia are in complete chaos. DRI these days has identified many shortcomings and irregularities by violating the first real control of spending money from the state register. The largest number of irregularities is due to a lack of respect for the Public Procurement Act. The audit, as pointed out here these days, covered 27% of the budget funds and was implemented in 14 ministries, three administrations and property directorates, and almost all recorded errors in spending budget funds spent by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The biggest problems with public finances are that there is no list of state assets, there is no record of donations or the realization of these donations. That's what the auditor told you, Madam Minister, so I don't see why you're nodding your head? The law in the area of short-term claims and obligations is being violated. After that, there is almost no internal control and audit or, when there is, it is not carried out in accordance with the law, as well as the situation that the main book of the Treasury is not kept, in accordance with the Budgetary System Act. We must remind the situation that state property was first registered and shown in the 2005 budget. Since then, unfortunately, then, only correct changes in the value of that property are being made between 2005 and 2009. In 2008 only 748 million dinars were charged, as we heard here in the exhibitions the other day. But it's only the dividends paid, not the dividends charged, because the state has waived the right to charge dividends. The state audit institution established that the total public debt of Serbia was 715.7 billion dinars on 31 December 2008. It is divided into long-term and short-term obligations. Indeed, long-term obligations in a much larger context and much higher than the total debt, and they, as such, are divided into domestic obligations and others, i.e. commitments to abroad. I must remind myself that domestic liabilities are almost 279 billion dinars, of which household loans amounting to 95% of these funds, records of 10.7 billion and loans from domestic banks are 7.2 billion dinars. I must point out that the highest percentage relative to household loans is related to foreign savings, i.e. The old foreign exchange savings amount to about 260 billion dinars. However, commitments to abroad amount to nearly 436 billion dinars, according to the items, are divided into loans from foreign governments, of which the largest percentage is to the Paris Club, and about 149 billion dinars; then, commitments to multilateral institutions, primarily to the International Development Association, 192 billion; then, to foreign banks of nearly 68 billion dinars and other foreign lenders, amounting to slightly more than 24 billion dinars, so that in the long term, we reach a figure of 714.3 billion dinars and short-term liabilities of 1.4 billion dinars, so Serbia's total public debt for 2008, as I have already said, 715.7 billion dinars. We must remind that the state has provided money to public enterprises, ministries and the defence industry, but none of the loans to, say, the railways, the flag of arms, "Freedom", "The First Partisan", "The First Spark Baric", etc. has not been returned in time. It's about, I have to say, millions of figures. It is indeed a worrying situation that these figures are not returned within the legal time limit. It is interesting to note that no money has been returned by those who have borrowed money from the funds in which the money is being deposited from the privatisation funds. It is a debt of only 15 billion dinars, most of which is owed by public enterprises – 7.8 billion dinars and budget beneficiaries – 5.8 billion dinars. In these cases, they almost don't exist, in fact they don't exist, no pay-back deadlines, so they probably don't even come back. Some of the old debtors found it appropriate, and so did you, to give them new loans. On the other hand, Serbia's overall short-term claims amount to about 31.7 billion dinars. The largest part of the debt concerns the 1999-2004 period, with an EPS of 1.9 billion dinars, a Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund of 7.5 billion dinars and a Stock Reserve Directorate of 2.6 billion dinars. The EPS regularly returns its debt all this time, while, for example, the PIO Fund, which had until the end of 2003 to repay those funds, has not returned the dinar to the budget system. What is owned by Serbia, almost none of us know, and only the citizens of Serbia, but we wonder why the employees of the Republic Property Directorate in 2008 had about 22.5 thousand hours of overtime from their regular work? If there were no controls without the procurement procedure, i.e. the public procurement procedure carried out and on the basis of the contract concluded, the Board of Joint Affairs of the Republic Authorities would not have bought fuel charges of 110 million dinars. True, this is not the only diameter, all of the controlled bodies have wronged the Public Procurement Act and, in addition to the lack of accounting and accounting system errors, as you say, it is more than obvious that the state has borrowed budget money, which has neither been returned nor has anyone taken any action to collect these claims. More than 13.5 billion dinars paid out of the budget reserve and nearly 15 billion dinars from the privatisation fund have not been paid back, 15.106.000,000 dinars are indeed neglectful of money, when it comes to the money and the guarantees issued for 2008. The budget paid slightly less than 2,800,000 dinars on behalf of the principal payment and about 1,800,000 dinars on behalf of interest, based on the guarantees issued. Regrets have not been made either in 2007, or in 2008, but all of them, Madam Ministers, have been paid for by the money of Serbian citizens. The law was also violated when borrowing to cover the budget deficit. The debt to finance the current liquidity deficit at the end of 2008 exceeded the allowed level under the Public Debt Act, which is 5% of the total revenues achieved in 2007, and by more than five billion dinars. What could be said if the business of so many agencies that are nowhere like us was considered? Like, she brought back the RRA. Why, Madam Minister, is there no new law on telecommunications that would take many years for problems in this area to be settled? Why is this area not under the control of the state, the Ministry of Telecommunications and where almost the largest financial resources in this area end? And another very important question about what I said earlier, why is there no inspection supervision in these services, and that to the services that are most profitable? In the end, Madam Minister, I will use your presence to ask you – when will the war be paid to farmers, the last fourth war of 24,000 dinars, and when will the debt be paid to old and non-equitable households in the area of agriculture for 2008 of 20,000 dinars?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33707	You've left a minute and a little more for your MP group. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33708	Ladies and gentlemen, the law on financial support for the family with children is a very important law for a country. It should paint a country's population and social policy. It should be part of the overall social care of children. This is one of those laws that the state shows how it takes care of its citizens. The law must be so designed that its provisions best protect the child’s interest, encourage birth, and provide materially for vulnerable families. The law now in force showed not only a series of shortcomings in the application of certain provisions in practice, but also contains certain discriminatory provisions. So it's a very important law for a country and it's very important for it to change and supplement, so that it protects citizens' interests in the best way, so that the state shows that it is ready and able to take better care of its citizens. However, when the Government submits to the Assembly a Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, on the grounds that its immediate adoption is necessary because of the reduction of budget resources identified for maternity leave fees, the absence from child care and the absence from child care for the care of a child, we become very skeptical about the proposal's intention. According to the promoter, the need for immediate adoption stemmed from the playfulness and abuse of the current provisions of the law. If you put this first and only in one sentence, in the reasons for changing it, you indicate that the practice in the current law has shown that some of its provisions should be amended, amended, specified and harmonised with the Constitution, we have to ask ourselves, would the state even change the law so as not to adopt the budget? Whether the law would change despite its shortcomings, because without reference, probably by the proposer, too many words about the need to change it, because it contains provisions that place certain categories of children in an unequal and discriminatory position, the conclusion is that. It is concluded that the government is passing this law to protect the state from maternity and mother, not to allow the state to develop its future generations properly, by providing financial support to the family with children, i.e. in an adequate manner, to regulate this area. If it weren't for the global economic crisis, to which the motionary is called into account, I ask you, would you be changing the law despite his being discriminatory, missing and bad? How can we now discuss the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, whether they lead to the improvement of this law, improving its application in practice, when you say that it is necessary to amend it because under the conditions of the economic crisis it can cause adverse consequences on planned savings in the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget? On the other hand, it is not clear, if you are calling for the abuse of the law, why didn't you change the criminal provisions of the law, especially those relating to employers? That way we'd better protect the country. That's what we talked about last year when the budget for this year was adopted. They can't be the employers who'll cut the redundancies for these compensations. Our proposal is to retain an existing solution in the calculation of income compensation during maternity leave. It is also intended to extend the deadline in Article 15 to 12 months, i.e. the deadline for submission of requests for the right to a parental allowance. It is good that you have introduced a provision into the law that if a mother who has three children in the next birth gives birth to two or more children, she will exercise the right to a parental allowance and for every child born in that birth, however, you should have arranged it in a different way. To regulate the law, and not to exercise that right on the basis of a special solution from the ministry. The question remains what are we going to do with those who have more than four children and are not twins? Is the interest of the state when it comes to population policy ending on the fourth child? It is also very interesting that you did not accept the suggestion of the Protector to pay attention to farmers, because they are not treated as self-employed persons under the Business Society Act. Also, you change Article 18 and instead of having children's allowance only to regular students, there are also extraordinary students, persons from sensitive social groups. Who's going to determine who these sensitive social groups are? So we have one proposal that contains changes in individual members, but yet these changes are not adequate and they are not enough to say – Serbia has a good law on financial support for the family with children, a law that follows the real needs of this society. This is how you did your job by half. You've changed something, some suggestions, and above all, I'm thinking about the suggestions of a civil protectionist, you've accepted, and you've left the rest for some other, maybe a better time. You could have, indeed, just on this very law to try to prove Prime Minister Cvetkovic's claims from last year, how socially responsible you are to the government. With this kind of behavior, the epithet of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic's cabinet certainly doesn't deserve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33709	Six minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. The time available for members of the group is 17 minutes and 10 seconds. After that, MP Zoran Antic, time is available for one minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33710	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Because my group doesn't have enough time to talk about all the laws, I'm going to talk about the bill on amendments and additions to the Financial Support Act to the family. At the very beginning, I would also like to comment on the reasoning that we have received under the proposal of this law. In fact, the proposal says it expects these changes to the legal provisions to contribute to the budget's savings. It goes on to say why this law is passed by emergency procedure, because there is a need to reduce budget expenditures intended to pay compensation for maternity leave, then to compensate for the absence from work due to child care and leave due to special child care. Furthermore, the mover also says that if we do not adopt this bill urgently, that there will be major adverse consequences for planned savings, i.e. that the Law on financial support for the family with children, now I am further interpreting, jeopardising the budget, and that this law, when this major financial crisis, does great damage to society. In other words, the proposer or the government of the Republic of Serbia considers that the funds now allocated from the budget for maternity leave, for the absence due to the care of one parent's child, that this endangers the country's economic stability and that it is harmful for Serbia. I would say that the government is headed by Minister Cvetkovic very shortsighted, because what he's saying and now he's worried only to save some money from the 2010 budget, it's an irresponsible, dangerous and very shortsighted policy. If this government were far-sighted and she were thinking a little bit about the future, she would have to be aware that the depopulation or that every year there are fewer children, or citizens in the Republic of Serbia, so demographics have been warning for years that every year about 30,000 inhabitants in this country are less. This will say that every year, a city or a middle - size municipality disappears. However, this government does not have the capacity to view it in the long term. The law on financial support for the family with children is part of the social care system for children. It is based on the rights and duties of parents to raise and raise their children, is also based on the child's right to living conditions that allow him to develop properly and should also express the state's desire to support the welfare of the family, but also in the interest of the state. So this law is a very important instrument of population policy. If you look at the statistics of the Republic Statistics Institute, they provided data that in 2008 there were 1,589,000 children up to 19 years of age and that is now 21% of the total population. In 2007, there were 1,662,000 children or 22.2% of the total population. So, and these statistics confirm what demographics, of course, have been saying for years, based on statistical data, because they're freeing us the development of infrastructure, free of everything you say and plan to invest, if there are no residents. So, this law and amendments that will directly reduce maternity leave benefits and for the absence of child care is a bill that is directly contrary to the interests of this country. My parliamentary group and I have submitted amendments, and I see that more parliamentary groups have submitted similar amendments, so we have about the same grudges. So, it's worth saving, but it's absolutely not supposed to be allowed to go to the expense of families with children because these families, especially where more children are so hard, and even when you introduce these austerity measures, it's going to be even worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33711	Five minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has a word, so the People's Messenger Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33712	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this debate is losing importance without the presence of Minister Ljajic. For what? I will not believe that because of the possible assessment of the fall in political popularity after two topics that were interesting here, it is a peaceful settlement of labour disputes and the gender equality represented by Minister Ljajic on behalf of the government. Now we have two legal proposals, where in the material and it says that he should represent those laws on behalf of the government. Mrs Dragutinovic, as finance minister, at no point do I want to question your parenting background, so I put it aside and there is no difference between you and any other parent. But I see you as the finance minister who has been tasked here to ensure that the budget is charged, and then by restrictive measures, it proposes to amend some of the laws that need to be spent as little as possible on something that is so far, I would say, in Serbia, I was a standard. If, in that standard, Serbian citizens were cut off, and only now after this will it become even more pronounced. When we were expecting new legal proposals here regarding reform of the pension system, all reforms are painful and in principle some are damaged by these reforms. We now have amendments and additions to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act with two members. The first says that pensions in 2010 will freeze and remain at the level at which they were in 2009, except for the variable factor which will increase or reduce that amount. We assume, because of the inflation design, to increase, but it remains to start running in 2010, to see what happens. These are the amendments to this law. We have one big problem, which is a large number of pensioners in Serbia compared to the number of employees, and we haven't taken advantage of, or all the governments since 2000, so to date, it's almost ten years, they haven't used internal reserves, which is an increase in income and an increase in the number of employees, where the foundation for pensioners would significantly increase. We have a political party with which I have no intention of leading the controversy on this subject, but I must point out, which has entered parliament thanks to promises that pensions will increase and that their only goal is to increase pensions. The Serbian Radical Party in its programme definitions is going to increase pensions, but from realistic grounds if possible, and the only real basis at this time is to increase the number of employees. They have various comments on whether we have a pension fund of 22%, whether it's much or not, there are countries both in the EU environment and countries in the world, and countries in the world that have different rates, but we need to see what is realistic at this point in Serbia. Someone before me was telling us what our retirement age structure was, what the structure was about the amount, and it came to the conclusion that there was a relatively small number of those pensioners who had extremely high pensions. I think it would be fair if that number wasn't so much and those pensions weren't so much, but I have to be honest and say that if it would have been reduced, it wouldn't have significantly improved the situation of those pensioners that are below every minimum. There's another way to approach this problem and solve it differently. Pensioners who have achieved their full-time job are 18.8%, and we say that there are a large number of pensioners who are in disability pensions, and family pensions are somewhat less. Which is why it was supposed to be audited. A great injustice in this area has been done right from 2000 to here. If it's not in your Ministry of Finance or in your budget, it doesn't mean that you're free of your responsibilities and that you shouldn't be making any more accounts about it right now. These two laws that are most discussed here are less from your area, more from Mr Ljajic's area. That's why I said, not what we especially like to see him here, but as a competent man who would probably accept some SRS proposals, because they're just out of practice. I'll tell you about some cases involving border areas. This term is a little awkward for me -- border areas, especially across the road from Republika Srpska, where I come from, and you'll see that this law should have been changed in that direction, not in that where you've done it. Certainly special attention is due to the pensioners of farmers. You see what our situation is about pensions -- in January 2009, employees who made pensions from the fund were about 1,307,921, the average pension of 21.709 dinars, independent employment, there are much less pensioners 51,304, but the average pensions were 21.259, so a slight difference. When it comes to farmers, there were 223,181, and the average pensions were 8,129 dinars, and in June no significant number of agricultural pensioners or their average pensions changed. Instead of 8,129, there were 8,139 dinars. In six months, they got 10 dinars more. Here I'm talking about average agricultural pensions, with them being significantly less than these amounts that are average. When it comes to the law on amendments and additions to the Financial Family Act with children, we must say that there are a number of irregularities and a new proposal, a new projection of this law, as it has been so far. When it comes to maternity benefits, childcare and childcare, it is proposed here to earn employees by 12 months, preceding the month in which they begin to use leave, increased by time spent for each full year, is limited to five average salaries in the Republic of Serbia. We know that in practice there are certain problems and that a certain number of employers, who are entitled to maternity leave, or benefit from maternity leave, increase enormous incomes. You wanted to avoid it, but we had legislation that we always pointed out, we from the SRS. Even those laws against which we are obviously here, against which we present many arguments, but when you adopt them by your majority, then we think they should be applied and that they are mandatory for all. But that's not working, and now we're going to have one situation that's going to be on average in 12 months. It's particularly interesting, when you say, that if a certain person, and that's at least in the original variant, when it comes to maternity leave, is only a mother and if she doesn't have a full 12 months, then it's going to be taken 50% of the average income. Why 50%? Why isn't it 100%? To accept these objective problems, you say - in 2008, the birth rate increased by 3% and financial separations by 47%. It's really disproportionate. You shouldn't have taken it down to 50% of the average income, but you should have left 100% of the average income. Later on, I will talk about the need for all the factors to enter into this fight against the white plague, that is, to correct the situation. I thank you for not leading the controversy now, but you will leave it behind, Madam Minister, but you will leave it when I present the exhibit, and then you will see questions that are interesting to you, and I am trying to make them all, because we representatives of the SRS have the ambition to talk here about what everyday life problems of citizens, who have shown us trust and what we represent. When we say - who have shown us confidence, I mean not only those who voted for the SRS list - Dr Vojislav Seselj, but I mean all those who live in the places where we come from. I want to talk about these problems. In preparation for this debate, I have consulted with the representatives who are conducting and receiving maternity services, to compensate for the maternity leave for the child's allowance and all other forms of compensation arising from this law. As a man, as I said at the beginning, who comes from Love, and similar is the situation in Mali Zvornik, Loznica, Krupanj, Baja Basta, I only speak from that part, and we probably have such remarks in other places. When you said that children's allowances are given only by students who are regularly educated, the age of 19 and 26 in the second education system is defined there, if they are educated in Serbia. I suppose that the legislator, or legislator, is not earlier in 2002 when this law was passed, but he did not want to equalise children who go to Switzerland, to the United States, Austria, and not to list other countries, with children from Ljubljana going to school in Bratunac or Srebrenica. Unfortunately, we will have this situation more and more often, because because of the poor population policy that this government has been leading for 10 years, there are objective reasons and it is not just a period of these 10 years. This problem is much more present in some earlier time period, and I don't want to let it out of my sight, but children who have a place of residence in Loznica, Mali Zvornik, Baja Basta, Ljubljana, will have to go to school in Zvornik, Bratunac, Srebrenica, because there are certain schools being abolished because there are not enough interested children, and there are no schools in the places of residence. We need to intervene urgently here. He can't have a child who has extra costs, because he can't go to school in Mali Zvornik or can't go to school in Bajina Basta or in Ljubovija, so there's additional travel costs to places that are in Republika Srpska to be damaged for a child's allowance. It is already well known how many documents it is necessary to collect to achieve this right, on the one hand, and on the other hand, these censors, after which they are entitled to a child's allowance, are extremely small. The combined households here, which means that they also have employees from the family household and that they have agricultural income, is 5,885, that is now, and if they cross that amount, they lose the right to a child's allowance. If they are only employees, they are even stricter conditions, if they live in a household where agricultural land is owned, two hectares per member, if over two hectares loses the right to a child's allowance, and yet I have to call, because my ambitions are to represent all citizens of Serbia, but to pay attention to those with whom I see each day and who talk to me daily about their problems, that this is about a country that is eighth and ninth classes, where processing is not possible in an intense sense, and it is mainly about, if it is eighth or ninth class, the quality of the country, it's about an unquality country, very often abandoned and cannot be a major problem with us in reality. These conditions are prescribed by the ministry's regulation. They're not regulated by law, they're prescribed by the ministry's regulation, and it should be much more flexible here. However, I hope that here, in the absence of Minister Ljajic, there is some Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and that it will be able to speak and that this, at least for 2010, anything that is possible, by the ministry's regulation, will change that. This law provides that local self-governments and cities can have a level of rights, i.e. the extent of the rights to increase compared to what is prescribed by law, but how? I will focus on four municipalities, i.e. one city and three municipalities, where, for example, the city of Loznica is transferred 316m from the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget, which is a city with over 100,000 inhabitants. Is there room here for the city of Loznica to increase these amounts? Very little, and if he has it, he's very small. Krupanj 106 million, Love 70, Mali Zvornik 49 million, I am talking about the transfer funds transferred from the Republic of Serbia's budget to local self-government. There's no room here, gentlemen. Here's fellow Puric, who comes from Loznica, so he can confirm whether or not there's some significant space left to increase the scope of these rights. I don't see that possibility. If I'm mistaken, and you see something different, feel free to say it, I'd be glad it's a little better than I think it is. There is one provision with which we must agree that it is good in relation to the current proposals of this law, which is in Article 17 of this proposal for amending and supplementing the Law on financial support for families with children, exclusively from the attitude of the 1st member: "A fosterer or guardian of a child can exercise the right to a child's maximum for the fourth child in the family and for every child without parental ageing". This "for every child without parental ageing" doesn't go into what -- four, which so far has been a practice. We have to say that this is a good proposal, but unfortunately the only one that we could recognize as the advantage of this bill compared to what it has been so far. In the modern world, one of the most significant functions of the state is concern about the biological restoration of the population, the care of the so-called so-called population. Human reproduction. When it comes to population policy, all the factors in this country, so let me say... Those who are not the most important, but let's say the means of information here must also take a greater role, and all the forces of this society must be mobilised, anything that can, even in a symbolic way, contribute to the fight against the white plague. We have to change, we have to change our minds, we have to let go of our indifference, we have to stop being selfish, and above all, those who in the name of the people exercise power and every government springs from the people and drowns in it and you will see in some of the next elections and the SRS, regardless of some of the current elections, in some of the elections in the locals, has never run away from the elections. You will see where your current government will drown and there must be a more significant redistribution of national income and the fight against white plague is as important as national policy, as well as economic policy, as well as any other and we need to publish a biological revolution and take this seriously into consideration and do everything possible and of course affirm, not care for the third child but care for the fourth child, because then it would expand every family. The Serbian Radical Party will do its best and will selflessly point to what is the problem and propose new solutions, and we expect that your obligation on behalf of the Serbian citizens is to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33713	Nineteen minutes and 20 seconds used the time of the SRS parliamentary group. I'm setting a break now. We end work in the morning at 13.55 p.m. and continue at 14.55 p.m. The first registered speaker by the lists, the application for the word, is MP Zoran Nikolic. The DSS Group has 11 minutes and 40 seconds at its disposal. After that, the National MP Marina Ragush. Thank you. [[After break – 14.55]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing to work in the afternoon debate according to the order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in the joint principled search on 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 12 of the agenda. The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33715	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure. I would ask you as the chairman, if anything, to give us at least basic information where Minister Dragutinovic is or any of the government's representatives, so that we can continue the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33716	It's only a matter of time before the government's representatives enter the O.R. Since the finance government's representative is monitoring the work, I ask the service to invite representatives of the government and other ministries and representatives of the government authorised to enter the hall for this point. It's common for us to start at 15.00 hours, but the interruption of the afternoon was at 13.55, so we started five minutes earlier, so there's no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Each proposing representative shall have the right to a short break. This one's no shorter than five minutes. The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33717	I've got to get the Rules of Procedure again. This really doesn't make sense, which is an empty joke, which is a minor problem... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33718	People's MP, you can't advertise or say the same violation of the Rules of Procedure twice. I told you there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The proposer's representative has been present since the beginning. Each proposing representative has the right to a short date and stay outside the session room for seven, eight, four or five hours, as long as the sessions last. In cases where the Government does not send information to the Assembly that it has authorized any of the ministers, in which case the National Assembly will never, never and will not in future violate the Rules of Procedure. This isn't the case. Would you like to use your time from the parliamentary group? (Zoran Nikolic, from place: Yes. Here, you have a word. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: I am looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33719	You are under Rule 27 of the obligation to take care of the application of the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. Taking care of the application of the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, not only in an active sense, but also in words, and when the words you made to the Members of Parliament when holding a session are wrong and not based on the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, then you get this kind of warning from some MP who has the right to report for word injury to the Rules of Procedure. Namely, I'll say I'm wrong, what I just said, right now, and I'll apologize to you publicly if you find it in the Rules of Procedure that the Minister's right to be absent for a short break of 10-15 minutes. Where it says it in the Rules of Procedure, tell me, quote me somewhere, and I'll apologize right now, and I'll say I didn't read it right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33720	You can immediately apologize to the National Assembly, not to me, as the session can run without an authorised representative of the government. He's attending, but he doesn't have to be a minister present. So the ministry's representatives are also representatives of the government. Our common undeniable agreement is that the session does not begin without information from the Government of the Republic of Serbia sent to the National Assembly which of the ministers has been authorised by the Government to represent the government at the session and each minister, as well as any MP, has all other rights like any national MP, a participant of the session. So, your request, which is on the verge of demeaning, sees the National Assembly, to show where it has a participant at the session can come out, in the same place as the rights of the MPs, since the authorised representative of the promoter and the minister have the exact same rights as the participants in the session. Does MP Zoran Nikolic want to speak within the time of the parliamentary group? (Zoran Nikolic, from place: Yes. Here, you have a word. (Marina Ragush, from the scene: I seek word from the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Marina Ragush wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33721	Mrs. Komic, I do not have the dilemma that you are trying to implement the Rules of Procedure precisely and I believe that you will correct me if I am wrong right now, but I am simply experiencing a violation of dignity both at home and each MP individually if he is not a representative here, an authorised representative of the promoter with whom we will interact, for every raised dilemma to receive in real time a response. It is, therefore, the only way and the only place where the opposition and the ruling... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33722	National MPs, article 100, are explicitly forbidden to repeat complaints about a violation already made and highlighted during the session. So, answer to your wish to help you explain whether the Rules of Procedure is hurt or not, I refer you to reading Article 100 and to the rules that apply to us all. Thank you. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33723	The violation of this particular article 100 is carefully there if you read it says that you cannot point to the same breach of the Rules of Procedure, citing the same member of the Rules of Procedure. This is about a completely different base. The previous MP spoke of a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, and your answer was supposed to be in that spirit, whether there was injury to dignity or no injury to dignity, not to twist the same story that repeated the same motive, that is not true at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33724	National MP, I warn you that you are violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which have allowed us all the right to speak, and I ask you not to do so, so that we are not forced together to apply the provisions of Article 100 relating to the duties of the chair to give notices to MPs who abuse the right to a word under Article 100. Does MP Zoran Nikolic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33725	I really don't know why I'm so lucky that every time I get a word and I have a say here the minister doesn't, and we pretend there's a government representative here and he can give adequate answers. Among other things, the problem is that Minister Dragutinovic today, when she explained a set of six laws, focused on pension insurance laws and on public debt, and did not talk about other more important laws. I thought I was talking about them here and asking some specific questions to the minister, but obviously I don't have anyone. I welcome all MPs, although the ruling majority MPs are in very small numbers, and I particularly welcome the linear representatives of the pension party or the PUPS because I intend to talk here about pensions or pension movements in 2010 on the basis of this draft budget, and on the movement of pensions in 2011. Namely, what the minister has hinted and specifically said and the concrete consequences of the government's policy to lead are the freezing of pensions by mid-2011, and that is the very bad news, but the news that needs to be told to the pensioners, that pensions will be frozen for at least another year and a half. When we include inflation, when we include an increase in the cost of life, right in front of us and the collection of electricity, then we can realistically say that pensions will be less than 15% in the next year. If we know that this government was created on the idea of increasing pensions and that this was the condition of a party that has a linear hierarchy, by verticalizing 1,300 pensioners on boards, and if it is known that DS has accepted this condition, just so that at all costs the government is formed, then the basic question is asked – should this government still exist? The answer to that question, given future developments in profit and pension, is clear. This government should end its mandate as soon as possible, because as we spoke to you at the beginning when you defined yourself for an increase in pensions in the last year of 10%, but linearly, that whoever has a pension of 10,000 increased to 1,000 dinars, and whoever has 60,000 to increase his pension by 6,000 dinars, you claimed that it was just and correct, we said it was not fair and it was not right and that it was additionally burdening the budget. Now that you're going to freeze, or reduce pensions, you're doing it the same way linearly. So you work in a way that the one who has 10,000 dinars stays on those 10,000 dinars and the one who has 60,000 is left on those 60,000 dinars. I just remind citizens who are looking at this to consider whether representatives of pensioners here in parliament have pensions of 10,000 or 60,000 dinars and whether this is why they insist on this famous linearity. What you dared to present to us as MPs and as a National Assembly is, in fact, one absence of one elemental solidarity that, in the next period, which is certainly difficult, would have to exist, unlike the prime minister who says next year will be better, I want to remind him that something would be better, then that would have to mean that in 2009, it was good, because the graduation was going – well, better, best. If something should be better in 2010, it means that the prime minister and this government were doing well. Pensioners, public sector employees, private entrepreneurs, owners of small and medium-sized enterprises better than us here know if they were doing well this year. Since they know it, they know that with a government like this next year, it can't be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33726	Five minutes and 10 seconds of MP time were used. The word has a folk MP Marina Ragus, followed by National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33727	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but above all, Serbian citizens, since you have recently helped me interpret the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, on the basis of which we are working here, and I hope, given that your duty is also a human style, you will not mind if I look back at this little one for the simple reason why I am insufferable to follow the procedure to the heart of democratic dialogue and I am fully convinced that you also think so. If the rigid application of the Rules of Procedure means discipline in working in parliament, you lose something much more important to democracy, and it is the dialogue of the opposition and the authorities. I'm pretty sure you think intimately, too. I am more confident that all Serbian citizens also support this. So, we have a choice -- either we're going to obey the rules that will have desperate results or we're really going to listen to everything that's more important to us, and it is "vox popul" or the voice of the people. Because of this voice of the people that we very often abuse, we are here because we feel their pulse and what life means and we are trying to solve certain problems in the highest institution of a political system. You'll allow it, this is the only place, that's where you interrupted me last time, where the opposition and the government have a chance to exchange arguments. The more argumentative attitudes of the opposition, the better law enforcement, and all for the benefit of the citizens. So I hope that in the next period Mrs Dragutinovic will enter this hall and help us resolve many dilemmas. What is also outrageous and what the citizens expect from us and what they expected from us is the debate on the auditor's report. Why does my introduction look a little atypical, and besides, it's my style, you're used to it? Because we think that it is unnecessarily necessary to talk about certain funds that will be defined from the budget, which will save, for example, children's supplements, if we are aware that the funds from the budget, the resources of all our citizens are unintendedly spent, which is unequivocally determined by the auditor. Why don't we discuss the report of the auditor who was supposed to be the real introduction to this debate? We are not discussing because these are very uncomfortable topics and withdrawing the specific responsibility of certain ministers. Why don't we follow the Rigid Procedures here under the interpretation that we didn't indicate it was an emergency procedure? Because such matters are either not discussed or debated in this way by using the Rules of Procedure and MPs in a rigorous manner to take away the opportunity to speak in the right way about the right topics. If Mrs Dragutinovic had been there, we would have confidently told her, given that Mrs Dragutinovic had a very important scientific reputation, that she would have given us a certain argument, perhaps from a completely different angle and a completely different list of priorities for this political elite, but at least try to identify certain dilemmas, which concerns the financial support of families with children. In fact, it concerns the number of people who are definitely the most vulnerable in the state of Serbia. If we were to ask science, unfortunately we rarely ask it, the fact is that based on certain research is a growing population of people who fall into a vulnerable category of society and live a life that is not worthy of man. What science has established as a right to a man's life and who treats all the statutes relating to human rights and is really trying all the international and local institutions to improve man's standard, I guess the man is a categorical imperative and his standard of life, we put here in another, third or fourth plan. Why? Because we actually look away from very important issues about the movements of certain responsibilities and the determination of why we actually came as a country in this position. That all positions of the budget, especially those relating to the poor, children distracted by development, families with children, single parents, that we are saving, because someone over the years has fallen apart. We have, through just one report from the auditors, had the opportunity to see what unintended spending was and in what way it was coming, and again, to remind you, in the period after the five-eyed revolution, when citizens were promised that democracy, procedure, transparency, responsibility, and in fact only the shift of the elite was made. In fact, only Milosevic's levers of power have taken over and we are now witnessing something called - robbed Serbia. This is, of course, the widest possible context of the story within which we are talking about following budget laws, in a way that is a complete violation of democratic procedure, if we care to solve problems in democratic Serbia, because we should first talk about the auditor's report, to determine how all of us's money is spent, to say, and transparently show citizens where the privatisation funds are missing, that the privatisation funds are empty, because the money has been borrowed by public enterprises to solve their problems, which have also done business in such a way that the directors have had three, four and ten times more salaries than the president of the state. Also, we'd find out that we'd never actually know where certain funds were intended, especially vulnerable categories of society. When it comes to reducing pensions, children's supplements, we first need to talk about who robbed Serbia's budget, as they acquire, say, the 2006 medicines, the famous "tamiflu", so they make purchases by installing and taking from the budget a really significant amount of money. So these are topics that we will not hear obviously in Serbia's parliament because these topics speak of organised crime in Serbia and that you will not raise the question of the responsibility of any minister because then the government falls, because no one in that government could work in a way without having the support of the entire government. We are talking about following budget laws in the context of a state that has no power to deal with organised crime, with what is called abuse of position, non-compliance with rights and procedures, and then the prime minister is going to come out and say, they are guilty of accounting. So, this debate, as many unfortunately have so far, has completely reversed what is called a democratic procedure. This should also be one of the arguments that you are sitting at that chair, that you really think carefully about how real arguments should be held in parliament, which will mean not only the mere adoption of the law because the EU does not have an alternative. On this side, you will hear regularly that Serbia and Serbian citizens have no alternative, on the day you convince us that these laws, at least one law in general implemented means a better life for Serbian citizens, on that day we will all apologize to you and say, we are wrong. Until then, you have not convinced us by any argument how 700,000 poor people in Serbia will feed their children. How 300,000 poor children will normally live in Serbia and grow up to become normal people. If we start with postulate psychology that the child is the father of a man, we have a really big problem. In particular, we have problems because we are discussing an accompanying budget law that should shorten the child's supplement to many families in a way that we do not have a picture of how many families in Serbia live with a child's supplement, whether this child's addition to these poor families, which are growing in numbers, means something. How can these children have a life worthy of a child? If you think this is a simple political score, I'm going to deny you right now in a way that I'm going to use sources that aren't close to the SRS, anyway, that's something that's re-recognizable to our style. We'll have a chance to hear, say, research that was almost done, so, November 17th, 2009. I hope that all colleagues will be really interested, because the findings of this research are disastrous for all of us. So, they don't have bicycles, computers, they wear second-hand clothes and shoes, they only eat grapes when someone brings them, they don't buy fruit, they don't buy chocolate or meat, they bathe in soap for laundry. These are just some of the observations recorded by the latest surveys by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on poor families throughout Serbia, in which nearly 300,000 children grow up, it is not just a number, these children have their own name, last name and those children should one day become people. With this fact, they are already on the sidelines of society, with the fact that 300,000 children have already been discriminated against in Serbia. Let's move on. In these households, according to the estimates of the subjects themselves, it saves even in the air, and so the requests of the youngest are reduced to a minimum. When asked what you deny your children because of the lack of money, in Aleksinac, Apatino, Batocina, Dimitrovgrad, Mali Zvornik, the Sjesniks heard the same answers, parents sometimes said everything briefly, from diet to wardrobe. Sometimes they've been sorely dialed. They've always done it with strong emotions, and how different. So, dieting children in the poorest households is unquality, without enough milk, meat, fruits, vegetables, no candy, juices, ice cream, something is bought once a month, for example when they get material security and help, then they are honored with kevapi and juice. Among the subjects were those who acknowledged that they often did not have food. Their children then eat bread and tea. Let me remind you, it was part of the research that was presented right here in this House at the International Children and Poverty Conference. Furthermore, field experts have recorded the devastating facts of the youngest population's standard of living, collected answers from north to south of Serbia and received a really dark picture of habits and the growing of the youngest. That's what we should have heard as a report and a picture in the context of the debate on the subject of this law. Children's clothes and shoes inherit, receive a gift or wear old and worn, school children buy used books and school supplies, often have no lunch, as a rule they don't have allowance. Young children usually stay deprived of toys and paintings, buy the cheapest and unsuitable, get damaged and incomplete. Among the things and activities that children are denied are the computer, Internet, computer school, dance, training, sport, summering, wintering. These lifestyles are almost unthinkable. According to the 2009 data, more than 29,000 families with children are among the users of material security, and the total number of children in these households is about 58,000. This kind of social assistance is only one in a series of state interventions, and it is by all accounts by the most parents. Here we should have heard to Mrs Dragutinovic how she thinks these children normally live one day in Serbia. That, unfortunately, we won't hear. Maybe this isn't an interesting topic, or maybe this is a subject that's usually being skipped. The maximum is, to continue, to help between 5360 dinars for a single member and 10734 dinars for a five-member household. If children regularly attend school, families are also children's allowance recipients, which increases the total fees they receive from the state on average by 1,800 dinars per child. Children of single parents, to remind you, the percentage of single parents is growing year after year, and children with disabilities receive an increased child's allowance of 2,500 dinars per child. So in Serbia, slightly less than 4% of children are included in the aid programme, while estimates say that according to a standard of living, the share of poor children in Serbia is unfortunately twice as high. Children's households are, of course, poorer households than children's households and their poverty increased further in 2009, so their numbers rose from 5.6% in the third quarter of 2008 to 8.8% in the first two quarters of 2009. The low standard of living is also reflected in living conditions in these households. Poor families with children covered by the mah interview live in small houses whose owners are or are free of charge. They usually have one or two rooms. Almost all households have electricity and running water, while each third household has no sewers, uses an outdoor bathroom or a Polish water supply. For many families with more children, problems are of course a small space, often a common life in one room, without being able to separate male and female children. In 2009, more than 5,000 households appeared as a new beneficiary of assistance, of which nearly half of them, so around 2,500 are families with children. Among the new family users with children are the three-member families, close to 34%, then four members and households with more than five members, while one-member households prevail among newly registered families without children, about 69%. Of course, what is certainly a very significant figure, according to the 2009 criteria, individuals who spend 7.963 dinars per month, or 382,000 children, each fourth child in Serbia receives a child's allowance, for which 744 million dinars are allocated per month. There are also about 700,000 people in Serbia, i.e. Something above 9% of the total population in the poor category. The poverty line in Serbia, this is really the saddest part, but the fact for Serbia, is 8.360 dinars. According to Labour Minister Ljajic, therefore, this lower limit will certainly be moved because of an increasing number of people who are barely able to bring an end to the end. What is also very important, and we really needed Mrs Dragutinovic here, is what the SRS has seen through this bill, political correctness for the sake of it, we think it's a really good solution to determine who the real help is going to be, but since we won't have much time now, what's very wrong, is that aid is really not distributed to those who need it most, at the amount that would mean they can survive one month in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33728	19 minutes and 40 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic, and after that, MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33729	Before I begin, I would ask only, Madam Chairman, to get information on how much time our parliamentary group has.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33730	Six minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33731	Thank you. So, before us is a pretty large number of shameful laws in this package. I will talk about, I think, the most embarrassing of them, it is the law on pension and disability insurance, which is proposed to keep the amount of pensions and the amount of general points and cash compensation at the level of October 2008, so that they do not change in 2010. Last year, somehow we were doing the same job at this time, and then the one who promised in the pre-election campaign the amount of pensions of 70% of the personal income said that only exceptionally in 2009 the pensions were frozen and because they were increased linearly, I stress linearly, in October 2008, so the one who had 100,000 received 10,000, and the one who had 10,000 won 1,000 dinars. So much for righteousness. When the DSS parliamentary group insisted that this is not fair and that this is not how social peace is made in the country and that it cannot be handled in this way by the government, however, and that we have then submitted several amendments to which we have proposed that these increases do not occur linearly, but that this category with the lowest amount of pension receive increased pensions and that they are allowed to increase pensions, then this government and this Assembly did not adopt it. We have submitted the same amendment again. So, I'm just going to mention one thing, which you probably all know, is a May-based study of Strategic Marketing, which says 420,000 elderly people in Serbia are poor, while 20,000 of them have no income, no family members who can help them. One half of the elderly over 65 are socially endangered. They're 30,000 without a pension of less than 6,500 dinars. I must remind you that this government and this Assembly are playing a game with people, that there is currently a public advocacy along with the "Ju-en-di-pi" that Serbia enters the social pension security project. I wonder how it's possible to do it, or it's another one of the fog sales. The government has an extremely big problem that obviously does not know how to solve, which is that 30% of the budget goes to pensions and according to data from the Governing Board of the Republic Fund of PIO this year should increase the number of pensioners by 1.8%, which makes up 20,000 pensioners. Thus, the budget is at risk, the PIO Fund is at risk and pensioners are at risk. So the pension system of people is not sustainable. What Mr. Krkobiæ is doing, and the government pretends that everything is fine and will not interfere with it, despite recommendations and warnings from the IMF, despite common sense, is very unserious and dangerous for the state and brings a million and 600,000 pensioners in a position to care for their future, whether they will have to pay the most basic things. I warn you that one average pension cannot be a third of the consumer basket, as the press published today. Of course, Mrs Dragutinović, the finance minister, understands extremely well, and I am sorry that today is not here to talk about it. She supported last year's amendment, submitted by the DSS, not to increase pensions linearly. So, Mrs Dragutinovic understands and warns us that, for example, in Republika Srpska, pensions are at 45% of the salary and depend exclusively on the contributions paid into the budget. If we had that position to depend on the contributions paid, we could cut pensions by 50% right now. The recommendation of the IMF is to reduce pensions in the gross social product from the current 13.1% to 10% in 2016, and that in 2010 this participation must be reduced to 12.3%. Obviously, there are reforms ahead for the pension system. It is obvious that certain ministers are fenced because they are very discreet in public about the fact that the pension system is as unsustainable as it is, but it is also obvious that they behave irresponsiblely, because it is that the pension system reformes, which is a very serious job that requires really long-term planning, one that has made such irresponsible promises to Mr Krkobic, who is clearly not telling us anything about how this reform is going to be carried out, what it will do and what it will look like. Not even the people of the Republic Fund PIO know that, because they say in public, I have a few articles that are very interesting, I'll read them when we talk about amendments, that they don't know anything about it. So, the fact is that this government and Mr. Krkobic are jeopardizing one million and 600,000 pensioners, while they are at the same time, together with this widespread group calling itself the Serbian Government, socially responsible, which is irony, spending people's money on all sorts of nonsense, lightly and illegally, as it is, say, a story of mosquitoes, ambrosia and similar things, where 11m euros have been spent, so nothing, and millions and 600,000 pensioners are asking themselves today in Serbia -- will they be able to receive their pension next month?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33732	The word is by MP Mirko Munjic, followed by MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33733	In a situation where the state of Serbia, as a result of your long-standing rule, has been brought to the brink of destruction, brought to the brink of bankruptcy, today it is mostly reminded of a ship carried by the winds of a fierce swing, looking for an port, so the hour to the left, the hour to the east, the hour to the west, and again west to the east, not realizing that in fact a ship that does not know which port no wind is floating in is favourable. Instead of partially trying to mitigate and address its own problems in the area of pension-inhabited insurance, in the area of public debt, in the area of insurance, and in particular in the area of financial support for the family with children, this government had to propose to this assembly a single act that would have the character of the national strategy and the character of the national survival of the Serbian state, and especially of the Serb people in it. In a situation where we die out in Serbia every year, a city the size of nearly 30,000 inhabitants is extinct because more of them die than they are born, in a situation where in the country of Serbia, which is known as a country of natural resources and represents a symbol of wealth, about a million of its inhabitants are hungry, in a situation where the remaining 90% of the population on the edge of poverty, on the edge of hunger and elemental survival, when our villages remain desolate, when due to the lack of perspective and the possibility of finding employment from the country is increasingly young, when we are one of the oldest nations on the globe of the Earth and in a situation where 15 to 20 families threaten to swallow this country, is there anything to do with the adoption of that national survival strategy of the Serbian people? It is obvious that this government, obviously, has another vision, that it has other intentions and other interests, and that even the proposals of these laws that are on the agenda today are merely an attempt to temporarily solve some problems, to temporarily cover up some fire, to get over the necessary oxygen and to survive further. If all of this were true, we're also told by a number of arguments in favor of this finding. How can you believe the government's sincere intentions, when, for example, the proposal for a law on financial support to a family with children aims at protecting, developing children, psychophysical development, as well as normal family development? Is it true that, in the light of this law, that the adoption of this law by emergency procedure could result in the world economic crisis causing adverse effects on planned savings in the 2010 budget of the Republic of Serbia? This is all because of some alleged abuses that were possible under the earlier law. Are these abuses greater than just one mob or corruption affair in this country? Are the abuses of income benefits during maternity leave, the absence of child care for child care greater than the amount of price difference, for example, between paid vaccines and those that could have been paid without Miskovic's commission? Are these possible abuses greater than the sum of bonuses that some directors of large public enterprises give themselves on their own anyway? What is under your law on financial support for the family with children, what is for this government the territory of the Republic of Serbia? What territory does this law apply to? The solution is provided for in Article 18 of the old law, which defines the concept of education, fur, or reduction of Serbia's territory, only restricting it to the AP Vojvodina, therefore, without KIM. What are you doing now? The concept of the AP Vojvodina is being permanently removed from this bill, therefore, from this member, and that is why it is a very meaningful question – define once and agree what the territory of the Republic of Serbia is or is still not the time for this government to do so? The provision that a mother who has three children, and in the next birth of two and more children can exercise the right to a parental supplement based on a special solution of the Ministry of Social Affairs, is an absolutely inappropriate situation in which the state of Serbia is concerned with a demographic disaster, because, believe me, in some indicators, in 200 to 250 years, the Serbian people will absolutely disappear from these areas. That's why we're saying this. Why not give these laws to mothers with four, five or six children are not assigned, they should be awarded a medal, they should be given a national pension, not given by a minister or a ministry to determine whether they will have a parental allowance for a fourth, fifth or sixth child. Or the provision that the right to a parental allowance has a mother whose children of the previous birth order are not placed in an institution of social protection is paralegal under the proposal of this law. So unless they're placed in a social institution, the mother gets the right to claim that parental compensation. However, it should exercise that right to parental compensation by the very act of birth of a fourth, fifth or sixth child, not seeing if any of her children are in a social institution. So it's a category that, by the very act of birth, should exercise the right to that parental compensation. Why is it her child or one of her children being placed in that center? Is it because it lived in abundance, because this family lives in abundance? Will this parental supplement that would result in this family being something big for the family be much, so it should be watched if the children are in the accommodations, that they should not be given a parental allowance? So our position is that the mother, by the very act of birth of the fourth, fifth or sixth children, should exercise the right to this parental compensation. There is simply a general concern about family, about children, about families, etc. All of this is done to actually pinch somewhere, to save, simply, to sow certain funds into the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget. That is the primary and priority objective, therefore, for someone to survive politically and remain in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33734	Eight minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go. Time is available for 14 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33735	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Minister of Finance has found very precisely that there is definitely a problem in Serbia with the demographic fall of the population, or what sociologists call white plague. It is doubtless that one of the laws that should help fight the white plague is also the law on financial support for families with children. Unfortunately, his solutions are unspeakable and have many drawbacks. My colleagues well pointed out that the essential objection of the SRS to this bill is the fact that mothers who produce four, five or more children are discriminated against by mothers who have fewer children. It turns out that when a woman gives birth to a fourth, fifth or sixth child, she can receive compensation from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but only if a special solution is made by the competent resolution minister. This projection, gentlemen of the government, that the fourth child is saving the Serbian nation from a demographic disaster, unfortunately, is no longer true. Those who are seriously involved in investigating the population or making projections of the future population in the Republic of Serbia are unanimous in assessing whether even five children per family, or in one marriage, can save the Serbian nation from disappearing? Up to 20 years ago, four children, married, were believed to be able to stop the demographic fall of the Serb people. Unfortunately, the vast majority of other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, with the exception of the Roma population and with the exception of Albanians in southern Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, almost all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of their ethnic or religious, or racial background, experience a demographic decline. So it is no longer enough for a married couple to have four children so that it is a guarantee that the demographic fall of Serbian citizens will be stopped. So, five or six or more children is just the way out of this huge demographic crisis that exists today in Serbia. Of course, the fight against the white plague involves not just passing a law on the financial support of families with children. The fight against the white plague is being fought by a whole series of different laws. Unfortunately, our laws as well as in other areas of social life and in this area are the opposite of each other. Now this law says, Mrs Dragutinovic, we want to stop the white plague, and this year the ruling majority in the Serbian Parliament passed a new Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment. The SRS pointed out to you and today shows you that it is an extremely problematic member of 73. Employment and unemployment insurance laws. Why? For one simple reason. If an unemployed woman remains pregnant, she loses the right to compensation, because, as a rule, a woman who decides to maintain a pregnancy, her absence from work, her inability to work for more than 30 days. Today, women in Serbia, who are unemployed, who are decided, above all, because of their body's health status to maintain pregnancy, are practically losing their right to compensation under the Employment and Insurance Act from the unemployment case. Since you are here, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic you are present, not Mrs. Dragutinović, and given the fact that you are a great gentleman trying to present to you the case of a certain Kovac Melinda from Novi Sad. The woman is under Hungarian circumstances. Otherwise, this problem in Novi Sad has both Serbian women, and Hungarian women, and Slovak women, and Roma women and all female citizens regardless of nationality. I received documentation from Ms. Melinda Kovac and asked me to file her case, and unfortunately this case is not the only one in Novi Sad and probably not the only one in Serbia, I present at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, Kovac Melinda has had two spontaneous abortions so far. She still has not so little health problems today. She was forced for health reasons, for physical reasons to maintain pregnancy. The Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act treats this case as a temporary prevention to work. More specifically, those who apply this law, which is that the National Employment Service thus interprets Article 73. A woman maintains pregnancy, if this lasts for more than 30 days, she loses the right to compensation under the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act. Here there are solutions to the National Employment Service, the 2008-2009 New Sad subsidiary, which clearly shows that Mrs. Melinda Kovac absolutely exercised the right to cash compensation as an unemployed person until the moment she decided to maintain her pregnancy. Since this maintenance of pregnancy lasts for more than 30 days, she lost her right to cash compensation. Simply amazing, a legislator in the Republic of Serbia, the administration of the Republic of Serbia, is the fact that a woman, as once spoken in an ancient language, but in a very precise language, in a blessed state, is losing her right to cash compensation, because, beware, what bureaucratic logic – temporarily prevented from working. Instead of the state of Serbia encouraging women to marry, to have children, it destimulates them. How does it destimulate them? This kind of bureaucratic relationship towards living people, to people of flesh and blood. This woman lives in Novi Sad. This woman lives in Vojvodina. Today, the Statute of the AP of Vojvodina was declared. Today you claim, my dear citizens, you who live in Vojvodina, have received the Statute, now you will live better. Do you think the adoption today of the Statute of the Vojvodina Assembly of Vojvodina, Melinda Kovac, will give birth to the right to continue to pay cash, because a woman has to maintain her pregnancy? Unfortunately, he won't. Her social status will be as difficult as it has been to this day. Cases like this, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, in Novi Sad, there are dozens of my information. There are probably cases like this in every place, every municipality and every city in Serbia. I ask you to make sure that the Government of the Republic of Serbia changes the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment or at least that the Resort Ministry issues some instructions on how a member of this law should be interpreted. It is scandalous that a woman, a young woman who, for health reasons, has to maintain pregnancy, loses her right to cash compensation because apparently, according to those who interpret the law, is temporarily prevented from working. It's birth-destimulation. It is a measure that is actually in favour of a demographic disaster that threatens Serbia. According to projections, whether optimistic or pessimistic, but unfortunately real, they are objective opportunities for Serbs in Serbia to become a national minority in 50 to 100 years. That's unfortunately not all. Speaking of the Vojvodina, many areas in Vojvodina remain empty. There are no Serbs, no Hungarians, no Slovaks, no one else. In many Vojvodina cities today you can buy a house, a solid, decent house with a property of several thousand euros. People sell their fathers' property and their grandfathers for one simple reason, because no one lives in those places anymore. I tried as an authorised representative of the SRS, when we discussed the draft statutes of the AP Vojvodina, to quote a public opinion survey conducted in Vojvodina in 2002. Unfortunately, Mrs. Comic probably misread my intention. It was not my intention to evaluate the ugly memories of the past citizens living in Vojvodina, but to show in a very classic way to the citizens of Serbia what the real mood of citizens living in Vojvodina really is, what these people really need. The research was conducted in 2002. What I couldn't say then, I'll try to say now. The 2002 survey was funded by Freedom House – Serbia. The Americans are behind this research. That's not the data the SRS came up with. Those who conducted the research have no touching political points with the SRS, but the research is very measuring. They show that in the Serb natives living in Vojvodina, the so-called Serbs. The Colonist or the arrival living in Vojvodina, that at Hungary in Vojvodina, there is essentially only one attitude – we need a better and better life. They are not a problem in Vojvodina international relations, and it is not a fundamental question for the citizens living in Vojvodina whether Novi Sad will be the capital, but how to provide economic, financial, social and other assumptions that citizens living in Vojvodina live a better quality life, to live a life of decent men. It was the essence of our attempt to show the citizens of Serbia, to show the people's MPs what the real moods of citizens are, both in Subotica and Novi Sad, and in Sremska Mitrovica, and in Zrenjanin, in Pančev and in Sombor. No one, believe me, none of the 1,500 Serbs and Hungarians questioned and 2002. For years he hasn't said we need a new statute. None of them said, "The New Now needs to be the capital." None of them said - we need the province government in Novi Sad. No one said that. Everyone said -- we can't tell our children, as Mrs. Marina Ragush said, we can't provide our children with basic living conditions. We've given up some of our desperate needs. We can't educate our children, we can't treat our sick parents. Now we can't even maintain our pregnancy in a human way, because some bureaucrats in Novi Sad or Belgrade, however, because as a woman, I maintain my pregnancy as my temporary prevention to work. The essence of the SRS' commitment is to harmonise legislation that needs to stop the demographic fall of the Serb people, as well as all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. One of the first steps in this direction must be to amend the Employment Act, i.e. on insurance against unemployment. Maintaining pregnancy for justified health reasons should no longer be a reason for pregnant women to lose the right to cash compensation from the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is in direct contrast with the Democratic Development Strategy of the Republic of Serbia, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia back in 2007. Now you have, gentlemen of the government, one amazing thing - women who live in so-called close to Serbia when they maintain pregnancy, they get 65% of their salary. Women living in Vojvodina in northern Serbia, thanks to one decision by the Vojvodina Executive Council, receive a full amount of cash compensation from their own income. It's just amazing, a woman living in Pancheva has the right to 100% salary compensation, and a woman who lives 20 km away, in Belgrade or in Kragujevac, or in Valjevo, or in Nis has no right to do so. It is amazing that in this way we discriminate against women in Serbia, and our mouths are full of women's rights, our mouths are full of fighting the white plague. Please, Mr. Minister, once again, pledge to your entire authority that this practice is even and that the laws are really in the position of having as many children as possible in Serbia, both Serbian and Hungarian, both Roma and all others.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33736	The time available for the SRS parliamentary group has been used, and since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of the joint principled search, I ask whether they want the word of the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He didn't use the right of Article 93.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33737	It's an isolated opinion over a whole set of these laws. I'll be on my way, since the limit is only five minutes. What does the public need to know about this law supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act? He needs to know that pensions are practically frozen with some date in October 2008. This is actually a law that prevents pensions from increasing, or harmonising pensions. Then the question opens, what was remarkable for 2009 is now becoming exceptional for 2010, and it is likely to be exceptional for 2011 and the question opens -- what are we chasing, are we chasing the cost of life, are we chasing the growth of profits? In all the variants that are applied to pensioners are quite late. So be careful when you reform the pension-inhabited system, so it is not like 2003 when Gordana Matkovic ruined the pension system. Of course, freezing wages, freezing pensions, and not being given some criteria to defrosted it, say, may it be productivity growth, as it was once used as a legitimate reason for proper growth, inevitably withdraws business for operators to move into the gray zone. It is heading towards tax evasion, heading towards another completely illegal inequality that is being established between citizens. Of course, as its end, it will also have the fact that a growing number of companies will be blocked, and what follows will likely be bankruptcy both as a cause and as a consequence. This all shows how pointless economic policy is in the Republic of Serbia, and it is based on the fact that we are in a non-critical position, we want to have some development. It's about the man who lives in a 50-metre-square apartment to provide for the development of the bathroom mortgage one year, second year hallway, third year half the room, and why does he need a mortgage? To buy a computer, to buy a car on a lease, to buy a cell phone without anyone noticing that he actually doesn't have the essentials of living. I think the basic lack of all these regulations is that the priorities are lost. Priorities have been what has been in policy definitions for thousands of years. The task of politics is to solve poverty and ensure peace. Here, as you can see, poverty is the last hole in the play, and that's why it resorts to different things. As far as this second law is concerned, the question of the number of children, the birth of children is a personal right, a personal matter of an individual, but in conditions such as demographics in our country, and since 1980, they've been recording negative results, it's just no longer a personal matter, it's also a matter of social policy, it's a matter of state. In this regard, discrimination should not be made between pregnant women or children, as this is the number one task in matters of the state. The next law that needs to be said about is this law on amendments and additions to the Act on the takeover of stock companies. Just to remind you, we don't have a value charter board since they've run out of mandate, but the point of this law is to allow someone who gets the status of a professional investor to literally get rid of the state and achieve a monopoly on this market thanks to their closeness with the state, because then that closeness manifests itself through some of the variations that you're thinking about, which are joint agreements on the joint management of a business entity, future purchase of a minority package of the Republic of Serbia, a joint sale of the control package. All of this would be done in one way that significantly disrupts the securities market and makes some that are excluded from it, future monopolies. Something like that would be, like with the Fiat, and you know the consequences. As for this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Debt, the point is precisely to remove restrictions or, to say, to increase the limit on local self-government to be committed, to stimulate long-term borrowing based on this change, to open a space for business banks that can place funds towards local self-government and thus affect the future local government, which comes into one final state, commitments, contracts, something out of bounds. In this insurance law, if you allow just one more sentence, it is contrary to the law of the third set of laws on the agenda, because the separation of life insurance and non-life insurance is, if that is the standard, which is the standard, if that is the obligation, it is an obligation, I don't know why it is being cut off, shortened or extended until when the obligation is due, by calling on the discretionary law of the state. This discretionary right of the state exists in many other areas, so it has not been used. It's probably...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33738	Five minutes, thank you. The People's MP Velimir Ilic has the word, and after him is the MP Rada Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33739	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very sorry that the debate on the budget did not run in one normal time and that we had at some normal time this debate, to consider the budget, to give amendments and to discuss it here in a debate that would be very good and to convince the government that some of our methods that have been working on changing budgets for years. Unfortunately, these laws that are being discussed today are also only pro-forms designed to cover, hide, and hide from the public a variety of ambiguities in the budget itself. Because the budget and these following laws alone could not be discussed publicly, to do so in a quality way, was held that night's session, which opened on Friday night, lasts Saturday night in the sky, when many of us because of various obligations that were scheduled several months ago, were unable to attend the debate on the budget, not expecting the budget to come at night sessions, at sessions of the weekend, in sessions without direct television transmissions. Please, what public service is for if the most basic law in one country and these accompanying laws, which are now given, cannot be monitored in direct transmission, when the whole state sees what this is about, but it has to go to some secret sessions, hidden sessions, sessions that no one can attend from some debaters, from people who have prepared themselves for this budget. That's extremely incorrect. That's no government, since I've known the Serbian Parliament, and for years I've been a national MP, has ever done anything like this before. This is a sign that the intentions for budget formation were not fair and fair, but rather done in a very strange way, rather hidden, through a variety of artificial ministries that were created, where a bunch of couples whose positions of consumption were not defined. We have here ministries that have received considerable resources and we don't see from all of this, from these accompanying laws of the budget itself, some kind of development budget, perspective, employment, better life, higher standards, higher purchasing power, more investment, etc., we see that they will be stuck for one year, clouded. In the end, we will have who knows what reports of the review committees that no one will respect and respect, as is happening now. So here today we talk about family care, the white plague, how to solve employment, how to solve a series of problems that are extremely important to the state, how to solve the basic employment problem. Look at the Ministry of Economy, there are the largest funds. There's a simple budget vault, there's all the money left to spend on the minister's mercy and mercy and his surroundings to literally do whatever he wants. We will adopt it in a crowd, in a package, and we will say -- in the NIP are other means, as we did last year, where we do not have a mechanism to control these funds and how to speed up what is being said here, about the family, about the care of pensioners and many laws that are very important for Serbia to take the path of development. How will the homeless get to the roof over their heads? He says you have funds in the NIP. What if she spends on a party line somewhere else and doesn't get to the most endangered? It's been said for years -- funds are in the NIP. What other countries in Europe have NIP? What are we selling now, putting funds in the NIP? You may now wonder why this is being debated, and you will not allow the definition of the budget to be strict and that it is known right now that we have adopted for it, that and that and that these budget funds are provided for next year. This way we have nothing, we only have some announcements and indications that from certain means we will withdraw funds, that it will be better, that everyone will live better. That's not gonna happen. It's an empty story we've been dealing with for years. Why has Serbia's budget been the problem for years? Because you don't really fill the budget. I got a memo today that's a disaster. There are ministers involved, there are artificial companies with tycoons from the white world. These tycoons are coming to Serbia and in co-operation with our ministers are opening up companies to rob Serbia. Not to talk about how we robbed the biggest state resource in telecommunications through cable TV from Soros and gave it away for free. Here, now you're doing corridors. There's Minister Mrkonjic. Here, it is already moving the action that the corridors will block and instead of being an inflow of funds from the corridors and the use of road land and spring land for various jobs, such as the passage of optical cables, the passage of electrical cables, gas and the rest, we are now running from it and allowing the tycoons of the White World to come here to Serbia and to take billions of euros for years. Here we are now in our corridors, begenated by the man one, Slovenian, famous their tycoon, the company is "Nuba Invest" and a tycoon of Slovenian Tomazic has opened the company and has already entered the procedure to block the corridors and set up optical cables, that it does so. We used to say that it would do "The Railway" and "The Roads" and that it would get additional revenues to make less subsidies to the state, so that more money would remain for what today's laws bring. He submitted a request to open a company with Minister Dulic and on 6 October 2009, he already submitted a request, the minister agreed, of course. Minister Dinkic also gave consent, of course. Now they've ordered the Roads to do it in practice. On the same day, the minister sent a request to "The Ways of Serbia" to implement it without a tender, without anything. Who cares, what we need money for, there are smart people in the world who know how to spend money. This is a disgrace for Serbia. I can give you this, so study a little bit, Mr. Minister, but if this is allowed, let this pass, this is in a hundred years' time. Please, corridors, so we also said the Nish-Dimitrovgrad gas corridor that it would cross the route of travel land or highway, because it's a free route why we would drive through the prime minister's place and make a new route and expose ourselves to huge costs, so someone would say -- here, I wanted to go through this way, so it has to go to Zajecar, not to enter Dimitrovgrad. Therefore, this is a disgrace for Serbia and this is who allowed it, if Mr Dulic did, this is also a disgrace for the minister of spatial planning, construction and urbanism. So this kind of thing is a thousand. This is how the budget is drained, and there's a lot of resources to fill our budget and help bad-working companies. This was planned, the Railways were credited and the Roads were credited to buy optical cables, to do so from the collection of services to return credit lines. It was very easy to do and there were thousands of offers. Should a Slovenian tycoon, as they call it here, Serbian Cane, do it? If he has to do it, then we all here need to split up and not waste any time. There's a series of things like that, and there's a series of stories like that, and everybody here is taking care of their family, everybody's worried about people getting jobs. Where do they get a job, when we give everything we're worth to others, when we give everything that makes a good profit to others? Should our children be cherry pickers, mushroom pickers, etc. And expect some perspective? How did we make the banks? Someone fat will answer for it. What kind of banks are these and what investments are they? In this set of laws under discussion, we take commercial loans to charge the budget, please. It was never in Serbia. We're just looking, here's $25 million, 15 million, 30 million, one billion. My people, where are we going with all this debt? When does this government leave what do you do with these debts? I don't see at all in the budget and following the laws perspective and some new employment. What do I see here? All I see is some severances, we'll have a bunch more pensioners. We're gonna get everybody retired. We'll retire all of Serbia. Let's retire in order, all of us retire, walk in Serbia, enjoy, but where do we give our pensions? We say, frozen pensions. Prices will rise. This year only oil 25 dinars per litre, electricity goes, gas is gone, it's going to go again, how does it survive? We were trying to get pensioners to get a raise, the ones with the lowest incomes, not the ones who have the most. They've got the highest pension increase of 10%. The one with 150 grand gets 15,000 dinars, and the one with 8 grand gets 800 dinars. That's social justice, gentlemen. What kind of social justice are we talking about here and talking about when we're getting more and more discord and we're making more and more trouble? So this is all an empty story that I simply don't know what to serve and repeat, it won't be easy and there'll have to be some problems that can only be overcome by elections. Here you predict in these accompanying laws the write-off of debt to public enterprises. How can you write off and who is it that determines the write-off of debt to public enterprises? How can you write it off? So, a public firm doesn't have to do well, doesn't have to try to make a realisation, why? Well, in the end, if there's a good relationship or a strong minister who supports this public enterprise, they'll take care of it and eventually write it off, it can be extended as long as it wants and as it wants. Then, we have total humiliation and understatement under these accompanying laws of local government. We discuss local elections. Various parties get local power, which has strong people, responsible people, are well organized in certain areas. What are we bringing in now? We're introducing that from the budget the minister can give directly to the local community, to the institutions, to whoever he wants. Where is it? Why is there a local government? We have completely destroyed the local government and it needs to be abolished. Why? If the company in power is a political opponent of the current minister or regime, we don't give it on purpose now, as is the case with these 20 undeveloped municipalities, where the opposition is in power, to heat kindergartens now, there's no heating school, we torture it, we torture that mayor and management, and then the minister gets around, and then the younger one gets there, you know when he comes to Kragujevac, so he says - so he doesn't warm the school, here first thing tomorrow, the heating starts. Delne, open the register and share. What's there, spits out that local government. He says, "You're incompetent, you're not guilty of anything, you're not guilty of anything, you're not in debt." Therefore, this must not be allowed. What you want to do, it's a total discrimination of certain environments, and because of this empty environment, there are no more people in Kursumlia, in the villages of the area, no more in Blac, moving, mountainous areas, people leaving. Why? Because powerful men can come and throw it out of their sleeves, they have huge resources, here's a young man with 40 million euros, who's going to be a drunk billionaire in this mess and herd to behave. I'm looking at it the other day, I come to Kragujevac, they're the poor ones talking can't do it, and he says it'll all be settled tomorrow. Give it there, whatever you want. The other day I was there when the villagers said we have a football club, so we can't support it. We need wedding halls, so we can rent it and birthdays, so we can support ourselves. We can have a wedding hall, we can do anything, and for example, there's no sewers, there's no drinking water. Call the president of the municipality for that, and that's a mess. We're talking fair work, use of budgets, follow-up laws. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, do you know that Mrs. Kalanovic is working her way to Kragujevac without any permission, without an idea project certified, without a project of performance? Yeah, it's working? It just occurred to a woman to work, to break the law. Do you know that the Public Enterprise of Serbia and your ministry are competent to make roads and no one else in the state of Serbia? Right? So how can anyone who makes it now make a new path, make the Pera road, make the Wicca road, everyone has their own funds, and a little bit more. Who's gonna use the license? Who's responsible for that trip? Who's gonna put him in traffic? Who's gonna answer if there's an accident on that road tomorrow? How is the overpass made without a building permit? How is the overpass made without project documentation? Please, how are separate NIP funds if there is no project documentation, how was the tender done, Mr. Minister? How could it be a tender? How did Mrs Kalanovic tender if she didn't have a project in the file? Right? Who could have answered the tender where there was no paper? Pera, Žika, Mika, and make it work, we just work, we spend money, etc. I really ask you, Mr. Grouchy, I believe in you, bring order. Seduce, return the Ministry Act to observe, the Law of Ways to respect, the Law of Investment Construction to respect and everything else must be obeyed as God commands. It can't be done like this anymore. Where are those new jobs? Where are the new jobs? How to contain the white plague? How can a family be happy if they don't have a job, if they don't have a roof over their heads? Did you know that this money that is set aside for the apartments is just as much as those apartments for the University that Miskovic made, that it is worth it and that it is legalized? It's right in the pair that fits everything. So, I remember, I prayed as building minister, Mr. Djelic, then Deputy Prime Minister -- don't open Delta City, no building permit, no use, nothing. He fired and went to open the facility, wildly built and it all goes like that today and it goes like that and that's why changes are needed and that's why only through new elections can come to the safety of the family etc. The public debt law, debts, responsibilities and only responsibilities, and where do we go with these debts? I don't know. Let's see what can be done and how to get out of this crisis and accept some of the amendments that are key if you think you can get this right. This is how we're gonna get into big trouble. Believe me, we in the opposition don't even have to discuss it. You started this dance yourself, you finish it. Finish how you started and don't talk about taking care of the citizens. Don't talk about family being safe. Don't say they'll contain the white plague, don't talk. Talk about that white Schengen of yours. You've heard now that no one has anything to travel with, no way to travel. It's a good thing it was won, but it was promised in 2000 to be won in 2004. I remember perfectly well, when the late Prime Minister Djindjic and I were in Washington, it was said -- white Schengen, 2004 and the EU in 2007. Now, this has been moved to 2014, and I hope it's 2020, if this continues with this trend. Therefore, gentlemen of the government, I am very sorry that the minister to whom this is addressed is not present, and you, Mr. Minister, are asking that the law be respected when more funds are allocated for the infrastructure to bring Serbia back to life to build, to work, to do what is promised. It will give God that this government is going to go on as soon as possible, that some real people who are going to introduce order and this is simply going to focus on the right path and then we're going to have very, very many successes, we're going to have real budgets (President: 20 minutes). ) and we will discuss the budget in one correct way, at a time as appropriate, and not in the sky, and I hope that we will succeed very quickly. So, I don't see any perspective...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33740	The word has an MP, Rade Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33741	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Mrkonjic, we had a debate today on the set of laws relating to the implementation of the budget. In the morning we talked much more about amendments to the Law of PIO, and there was Minister Dragutinovic saying that in fact, the main goal is to participate in pensions and profits as much as possible to reduce GDP, which clearly indicates what they will be and in which direction changes will be made to the law. Obviously, these amendments to the law will go to a reduction in the right, that they will go towards reducing pensions, and it is obviously the only idea with that reform. I'm sorry the minister's missing, but she seems to have promised to give an explanation for one of the most important laws she's left behind for that third factor, probably some obligations. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt and these amendments only amends one member, Article 2, to bring the law into force by publication in the Official Messenger. This article provides the possibility that local self-governments can be significantly more free, i.e. significantly wider, in charge of capital investments. It should be pointed out in particular that the Law on Public Debt when the local self-government says it is also referring to the provinces, municipalities and cities. How can we consider this possibility that the Government gives municipalities and cities and the AP to be much more in debt for capital investments? You could say it's kind of good. On the other hand, there is a law on the financing of units of local self-government. This law accurately defines the amount of resources to be transferred, the kind of tasks to be carried out by the Republic, the municipalities and cities, and how exactly their funding is determined. To the dinar there is defined how much each jurisdiction amounts. I must remind you that in 2009, the government of the Republic of Serbia's budget rebalanced those funds that were defined to finance local self-government from 40 to 25 billion and whatever this 2010 budget is growing by a lot of percentages, local self-government funding remains at the same level. If we add up 2009 and 2010, local self-governments are denied jurisdiction, for which they are legally entitled to be financed, about 40 billion dinars. Today I met a mayor from a big city in Serbia, not from the DSS he's from the DS, it doesn't matter at all, his city will be denied for 500 million dinars in these two years. Salaries have to pay, material costs have to pay, those 500 million dinars are capital investments. On the one hand, what is the obligation of municipalities and cities under the law is reduced. On the other hand, it is possible for these capital investments to be financed from the loan. In what way is it fair and where is the logic? Those loans have to come back. What we said was a key issue for both the government and Serbia in general is the key question that must be addressed in the future, which is the size of the public sector, public spending, or wages and pensions, and at the same time investment. There's Mr. Mrkonjic, waiting, next point of investment. At the same time, there is a debt Serbia has. There is no country in the world that can develop without credit. There are no such countries except those that have oil. Serbia has no regrets. It's a matter of measure. To what extent we can be in debt, what we can be in debt for, and how we're going to get those loans back. The National Bank did one analysis a few days ago, and it was published a few days ago, and according to that analysis only in the last year, Serbia's debt has been increased by more than 7 percentage points compared to GDP. It was about 26%, and now it's 7% higher. To finance such a deficit, which is that, the lack of public sector reforms and pension reforms, the reform of the social sphere, and just arrived Minister Ljajic, to finance such a deficit, we singled out 12 billion dinars on interest in 2009. Long after the issued records of the Treasury of the Republic of Serbia are between 90 billion and 100 billion dinars, only interest from 18% is now about 12 billion dinars. How much money is that? Whether to include pensions, salaries or maybe local self-government budgets. All municipalities of southern Serbia, the Niski District, Toplički District, Jablanski, Pcinski, have budgets that are less than 12 billion dinars, all when combined, that's less than that. That's the interest we paid this year. As for the public debt for 2010, another 107 billion dinars of deficit are foreseen. This will be filled in by a new mission of vault records, about 40 billion new ones, and as far as we've heard from the finance minister, it's been suggested that at the end of this year alone be 140 billion dinars, so let the interest be the same 12%. It's easy to calculate, Mr. Mrkonjic, how many miles of highway. I'm just saying that we need to make a strategy, that it's necessary to see to what extent we can pay these obligations, and that only on that basis do we decide how many miles of time we will be and how we will implement the reforms. We haven't heard anything about this strategy. The service of public debt in the Memorandum of Economic Policy is at least a year old. None of the numbers found there in any way corresponds to the truth. What does that mean? How are we gonna live in two years? The world does not end on 1 January 2011, or in 2012, as some of the prophecies say. Can we guarantee, when we withdraw all these loans, and the Serbian Parliament has approved, and the government has prepared about a billion and 600m euros in loans, which are waiting for any moment to be withdrawn, the next point that Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic and Mr. Ljajic have allowed us to withdraw 770m euros in new loans, in which way will we finance it in a year or two? There's that 200 billion we have to pay out of the budget every year to pay off our pensions. It's not a public debt, because the Public Debt Act clearly defines what it is. If it is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia's budget, if it is for the benefit of all citizens of Serbia, it also considers and implies service. When we consider it, we can be concerned about how we'll live in a year or two or three. If GDP grows 1.5%, then 3, and 5, it does not guarantee new jobs, and this is seen from the government projection, without five or six percent of GDP growth, there are no jobs. And in 2010, no new job will be created. At the end of that year, the number of jobs will be as big as today, millions and 800,000, and in which way we will pay our pensions, in which way we will build roads, in which way we will help the workers. Then how will Rasim save all these people? Those are the key questions we need to solve here. Sadly, there are only questions, and there are no answers, and that is what concerns us, and these are the topics that we need to open in the congregation. Without new jobs, there's no development and there's no math to what we're going to save. The key is in new jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33742	I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law supplementing the PIO Act, the draft law supplementing the Law on financial support for the family with children, the Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the acquisition of stock companies, the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Debt, the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Insurance Act, the Proposal for a Law on the Obligation of the Republic of Serbia with Eurobank EFG.d. We move to a joint single search of the 7-11th agenda: – PROPOSALS ON CONFORMATION OF THE SERBIA ACCOMMODATION: WITH IBRD (development of the private, financial sector and public finances), SA EBRD (loan of K10) AND SA EIB (passway corridor 10 and loan for municipal and regional infrastructure B) I would like to inform you that, with regard to the consideration of 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11 points of the sitting agenda, and according to Article 88 of Position 1 of the National Assembly, next to the representatives of the promoters Diana Dragutinović, finance ministers, Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure and Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, has called for the members to attend both Višna Kuzmanovic and Aleksandr Popović, junior advisors at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33743	In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on proposals for the agenda for items 7 to 11, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that under Article 152(3), Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for MPs of all groups, are five hours, and that is: The Parliamentary Group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Plus MP Group - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS Group - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS Group - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once to three minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that, according to this point, the parliamentary group will represent MPs, and this: MP Zoran Kasalovic to the SPS-JS parliamentary group and MP Dragan Stevanovic to the SRS. In accordance with Article 152(3) and Article 142(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the second programme loan for the development of the private and financial sector), the proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the programme loan for the development of public finances), the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (K10) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank Autoput Corridor 10 (E-75) and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank (the Loan for Municipal and Regional Infrastructure B). Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, MP Branko Ljiljak, vice president of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the People's MPs Zoran Krasic and Lidija Dimitrijevic, who expressed their opinion at the session of the Finance Committee, want to discuss all five draft laws? Yeah. The word is Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33744	The reason for issuing an opinion at the Finance Committee's session on all points of the agenda that are united in this joint search is well known. I thus expressed the view of the SRS that it must cease uncontrollable borrowing. It has become a practice for each session to come to an end with proposals for laws that are in charge and whatever their number is, the debate on them is brought together at a time foreseen for one point. The opposition warns that we are increasingly in charge, that this is going nowhere, however, representatives of the ruling majority regularly press the key for and thus tighten the debt noose around the doors of Serbian citizens. Now it's five points of the agenda and all confirmation of the loan agreement. After this session, Serbian citizens will be in debt of 699m euros, but also for the amount of credit they spoke of under the previous agenda point, worth $25m. The fact is that the realisation of most projects is necessary. When I say that, I mean primarily the realisation of infrastructure projects, but taking loans this much is really not the solution. One part of these loans is for infrastructure projects. Two loans for Corridor 10 and one for municipal and regional infrastructure, while the second part concerns the development of the private and financial sectors and the development of public finances. For this other purpose, a loan of 140m 900,000 euros is intended. Interestingly, the Committee on Finance in presenting a programme loan for the development of public finances has said that these funds are intended for public finance management reforms, for external and internal public procurement audits. However, it has been said that this is not the usual project loan, i.e. that these funds can be used for other purposes, but is not said which. I must point out that the SRS welcomes the intention to improve the public procurement process and every kind of audit, because these are areas with the most apparent irregularities, but we can never accept this much debt. In the reasons of almost all loans, it is said that they are very favourable, long-term, with a favourable period of start. Thus, the agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, relating to Corridor 10, is presented as the most favourable which the Bank approves. The payment deadline is 15 years, the period starts for four years. Also, with the European Investment Bank, also for Corridor 10 most favourable by the institution. Payout is 30 years, period starts six years. Most of these agreements show a long period of start, which means that the start of repayment of these debts is delayed for another time, and the government does not seem to want to see that each of the Serb people was better last year. Defeating data that two average salaries are insufficient for the most basic cost of life, that the consumer basket is higher by 1,830 dinars in December compared to September and that prices in Belgrade are higher than in Budapest, Sarajevo, Zagreb, Ljubljana. At some other time, there will be more words about unemployment and other problems that the state does not take into account when borrowing, because any debt must return.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33745	Representative of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group at points 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11. will be Mr Milos Radulovic. Mr. Milos Radulovic has a word. Excuse me, Mr. Zoran Kasalovic, then you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33746	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33747	Mr. Nikolic has a word. He advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let me just remind you that we have a deal with the heads of the parliamentary groups that the participation goes from a smaller parliamentary group to a larger one, and that's why I was wrong. I didn't honor that deal. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33748	I reported to the Rules of Procedure, because you invited a colleague, Radulovic, first, but it's fine, since you admitted that the SPS is a smaller parliamentary group, then it's quite fine and consistent with the Rules of Procedure, we accept that fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33749	Mr. Nikolic, the concept is smaller and larger sometimes and relative. Mr. Kasalovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33750	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, proposed a set of laws in this principle debate covers several confirmations, in particular the loan agreement, as well as financial contracts with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank. All proposed laws in this set are acceptable for SPS - JS MPs for two reasons. First of all, it is standard terms to allocate funds by these international financial institutions, and in some segments and significantly favourable, such as the repayment deadlines of these loans, and on the other hand, what is important for the SPS - JS MPs is the purpose of the funds for which it will be spent. First of all, we appreciate that the funds provided by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank amounting to 534 million dinars for construction and modernisation, i.e. the continuation of the construction of Corridor 10, is very significant, as the Corridor is absolutely defined as a priority route within the framework of the Republic of Serbia's 2008-2015 strategy. Of course, this government and the resolution ministry and resolute minister Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic completely removed the political mortgage from this project and fully affirmed it. It is clear to all that the realisation of Corridor 10 is the key to overcoming the economic crisis, above all, because it will lead to an increase in liquidity through the realisation of these funds in these 534 million dinar arrangements, and on the other hand, it will certainly lead to an increase in demand and inclusion in this project of many other activities and, of course, to an increase in employment. What is important to say in this procedure and this arrangement is that the procurement process will respect the World Bank procedure and that, therefore, the additional transparency of the spending of these funds will be respected when it comes to public procurement of goods and services. On the other hand, when it comes to an arrangement for municipal and regional infrastructure, this arrangement provides an additional 25m euros in funding from the European Investment Bank, so the latest in the 75m dinar arrangement envisioned for the implementation of this 200m-euro project, with 125m euros in funds from the Republic of Serbia and 75m euros in the European Investment Bank. The funds are therefore planned for the purpose of improving travel infrastructure, building schools, health institutions, sports facilities, cultural facilities. We believe that this is a very important project, especially since capital investments require huge funds and many municipalities in the Republic of Serbia and regions do not have the opportunity to realise, unfortunately, in the 21st century basic infrastructure facilities in that area because the necessary funds exceed the total budget of these municipalities. That is why we believe that this is the way of realising infrastructure projects and all the others that I have cited absolutely should be supported. When it comes to the proposal for a law with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which primarily concerns the programme loan for the development of public finances, the funds focus on reforms in the field of public finance management, in particular through the improvement of the system of monitoring and control of public finances, and in this respect the strengthening of internal control and internal audit. Other reforms have been foreseen, but MPs of the SPS - JS consider it very important that all the legislation envisioned direct and indirect budget users really establish institutions and form internal control and internal audit, because the DRI report also showed, and this is one of the first findings, that the lack of internal control and internal audit and how it feels. Internal control is a system of procedures and responsibilities of all persons involved in finance and business transactions, and thus certainly and frequently resented in this report that there is insufficient documentation, thus already in the beginning it would be avoided, and through an internal audit, which, in fact, represents a verification of the legality and compliance of the regulation, would achieve additional efficiency of public finances and control of the legal spending of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, even an external audit would have a basis for making the audit easier, as internal audit and internal control would be a good basis for its work. Finally, I would also like to say about the programme loan relating to the development of the private and financial sector of $100m, which is designed to build a more efficient and stable financial sector. Under these reforms, I would like to support once again the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is also expressed in the memorandum on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and I hope in this way that it will affirm this position, that the Republic of Serbia needs one state-owned insurance house, such as "Dunav", therefore, efficient and reformed, and that it should not go into the privatisation of such an insurance company by post-poo or if the need arises, to wait for significantly favourable market conditions for that to be realised. So, in the end, I would like to say that for all of these reasons, and above all for the purpose of spending funds that will have multiple significance, the SPS-JS will support all the bill proposals in this principle debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33751	Thank you, Mr. Kasalovich. Again, I will have to apologize to Mr Radulovic, if he agrees, to give Mr Krasic a word, since he has an opinion of five minutes. He's a little late to call, but he's entitled to it. Do you agree? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33752	Many of us who have singled out an opinion at the Finance Committee's session on this set of laws which essentially means the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, so I would like to explain briefly what the reasons are. When it comes to this second programme loan for the development of the private and financial sector, the public must know that the first agreement was concluded this May and that before the first agreement was concluded, Serbia had to meet some conditions. After allegedly meeting these conditions, she brought some of her strategies, took some guidelines, gained conditions for this other one, and as a result of this second agreement, the state will have to reduce participation in banks' capital from 17, almost 18% to 10% and 34% in insurance companies to 30%. There are other restrictions and conditions. We believe that this type of conditioning is simply not acceptable, and secondly, we want to stamp, simply, the intention of the authorities to provide funds at any cost and any source without using any internal reserves. As for this programme loan for the development of public finances, which is, for the sake of the public, I have to say, a kind of disaster, a hundred million loans are taken to settle public finances in terms of logistics. Simply so we can apply the Budgetary System Act, the DRI Act. Someone in this country, from this government, is asking for credit, taking credit. I'm asking you a question -- how many more people you're going to hire at the Ministry of Finance and other bodies dealing with public finances at the level of an autonomous province, local self-government, in conditions where you're leading an action to fire people as a surplus. It probably takes five to six thousand people just to be able to rely on the Budgetary System Act and its need. I have to inform the public that one of the conditions for obtaining this loan is exactly that report by the auditor, where only 27% of the budget users have been audited and identified as many irregularities that we have finally heard are guilty of accounting. Just to draw your attention, and those foreigners who are giving us a loan, they said they weren't allowed to use loan funds for drinking, tobacco, terrorist financing, money laundering, etc. After this report and this report by the audit institution, think about what it's really about. We also have two, one agreement, one financial agreement depending on who is the lender for this part of the Corridor towards Dimitrovgrad. I'd just like to repeat that you still need to sort out the stock issue through Pirot. The local self-government is against the highway going through the site, already looking for it in a location between Piroth and Babusnica, so respect the citizens' interests. Perhaps you, Mrkonjic, remember in time that Paracina was also a problem, whether Moravia, whether the mountain variety, and somehow that hilly one won, did not go down the plain, where the most fertile land was. Of course, there is also this contract concerning this Corridor towards Vranj. We heard today at the Committee session giving allegedly documentation ready. You know that best, given that all these jobs will be run by the newly established company Corridor and that there are a number of restrictions in the sense that there is no absolute freedom of our side, but under the conditions which these two banks dictate. I have to say, purely from the financial point of view, these loans are favourable. Probably the cheaper they wouldn't be able to find each other, but you know when it falls into the hands of someone who's not really known to be a good host, and that shows a review report, then there's got to be some suspicion. At the end of this law, a loan for municipal and regional infrastructure, programme B, which will go through the Ministry of National and Investment Plan, is that it is 25m euros, but I have to tell you that it seems to me that these money is colored party. They will practically go to those municipalities where those who want to form a coalition with regional political structures are in power. I just have to draw attention to you that this morning we had a point of agenda amending the Public Debt Act, where the limit was increased, given more space to local self-government to...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33753	I have to distract you that it's been five minutes. Mr. Milos Radulovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, today we are having a debate on a set of very important laws regarding credit duties. It is also about agreements and financial contracts that we additionally owe Serbian citizens for the entire 755m euros. Just about 30 days ago, we held a debate here and ratified credit debt agreements of 154 million and 500 000 euros, so the total debt with those debts, that is, all of those contracts that we and the laws that we ratified in the Serbian Parliament, began from 1 January 2009 to today, reached the total of 2. 500. 000,000 euros. Taking into account that the Republic of Serbia has signed an agreement with the IMF of 2,900,000 euros outside the assembly, that already the first 788m tranche has been realised, we are reaching the amount of the already practically committed 33,000 euros. So many citizens of the Republic of Serbia borrowed this power in 2009. If state records are taken in the course of this year, we come to the fact that this amount is already over 10 billion and reaching a figure of over 12 billion. The public debt of the Republic of Serbia, gentlemen of parliament, is currently around 12 billion euros for respected citizens. In addition, for these state records alone, citizens of the Republic of Serbia due to interest on the state records, which was around 18% at the beginning of the year, is now around 12%, we additionally burden Serbian citizens with interest from 700m to 800m euros per month. Citizens need to know, as the esteemed colleague says, that this is exactly what falls on their burden. The total foreign debt, gentlemen, has increased to 22 billion euros. The state itself owes 7.5 billion euros to the outside, while economic operators and banks about 14.5 billion euros. Public debt from the initial 27% early this year, 27% of GDP, reached 42% of GDP. The question is, since there are a few days left by the end of the year, will the next sessions we will have by December 31st and increase? This borrowing, and in general for borrowing, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, gentlemen of the government, you show exceptional efficiency, but what we are concerned about, is that in terms of legal obligations for which this government and this government have and what the budget system law obliges you to do, you have not shown any efficiency or speed. The responsibility to the citizens and not to talk. To date, we have not had a draft budget rebalancing law here, even though you have exceeded the planned and allowed budget deficit of 70 billion 400 million dinars. According to the latest indicators, the budget deficit is already over 100 billion dinars. You did not get the consent of this congregation for such an excess, and you had to get it. To overcome the budget deficit, we expect to hold a debate when we talk about the 2009 budget rebalancing, although, by some logic, the draft budget rebalancing law should first come, and then the 2010 budget. That's what the law says. The responsibility is on you, on the Minister of Finance, on the Prime Minister, on the ruling majority. What about the 2008 final account? What about the DRI report? What about budget deadlines? We had to get the draft budget here on November 1st, we got it on December 3rd. By 15 December, the draft budget law for 2010 is to be adopted. So says the Bill on the Budget System, according to the budget calendar. That's tomorrow, today is December 14th. That's what citizens need to know, they need to know what responsibility you have about what creates the life of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Do you know, gentlemen, that next year, on the basis of an ino loan, the state of Serbia should return two billion and 600 million euros. If we recalculate it daily, it comes out about seven billion euros. You have come to every citizen in Serbia for 1,300 euros in credit next year. The prime minister and finance minister, explaining this 2010 budget, said here in the assembly that it was developmental, that it was projected to increase GDP by 1.5%. I remind you that last year you also spoke and promised that the budget was projected to increase GDP by 4.5%. At the end of the year, there's a drop of about 4%. In an exposé when this government was formed, Prime Minister Cvetkovic pledged a development budget, a socially responsible government, 200,000 jobs, along with Mr Dinkic's 1,000-euro free share of shares, an increase in living standards. What's in it for us? What about those promises? Since the planned growth, we have a 14% drop in industrial production, a real drop in earnings and pensions, the euro last year was 75, now 96 dinars. About 250,000 workers are out of work this year, Mr. Ljajic. There's nothing out of action. In October, 62,031 economic operators were in a blockade. In just a month and a half, it increased by 7,000. Now we have 69,270 economic operators in the blockade. There is nothing left of a favourable business environment. Internal claims between economic operators are over two thousand billion. Only banks owe one billion euros. The biggest generators of this state are the big systems that owe the most. Mr Ljajic, at the founding assembly of his party, said that seven tycoons hold over 50% of the country's total capital. Just, why don't you say the names. Why don't you pull the trigger and how did they get that money? Another party representative of the ruling coalition said that citizens are making more noise and more protests and called on the words "Rasim, save us". Who will save this people from such a difficult situation? That's something you need to answer here, gentlemen. No wonder about about a billion euros, namely 960 million, subsidized loans, 774 million went into liquidity, precisely because many economic operators, entrepreneurs, are unable to survive if the loans they take do not launch the production process to sell goods, precisely their products to those monopolies who pay, you know, after 250 days. No one does that. Gentlemen, these are the tycoons, the monopolies he spoke of, whose names Mr Ljajic did not say. Only 2.1m euros left for production of these subsidized loans. So we're asking you -- what do you think you're returning these loans that you're taking this easily and which, apparently, you're depending on? All your economic development strategy is currently based on increased and faster credit borrowing. The DSS parliamentary group has repeated this several times, that for you it represents the greatest success of just ratifying a loan with foreign banks. Exports in this year are down 20%, and six billion euros is the total. For 3.8 billion, it's smaller than imports. What we're worried about is the structure of imports. Over 53% is a commodity of broad consumption. Only 7.8% represent resources and equipment for work. No wonder then what happens is that even though we're famous for our branding, malaria, manufacturing, these days we're reading that someone has given himself the right to import 416 tons of raspberries from Chile, Suriname, Poland and we don't know which other countries. Who are these people who imported it? It is these monopolies who are after pressure on foreign reserves and are therefore raising the euro rate. The result of such a policy is that Serbia, although the agricultural country, according to the estimates of all of us, should be a regional leader in agricultural production, because we are also registering the only surplus in exchange with a foreign exchange of $750m, we have, as a consequence, that increasingly smaller areas are being processed and sown to certain cultures. Do you know that only 400,000 ha of wheat were sown, that it was 150,000 ha less than the previous year. No wonder, when last year's agriculture budget was only 2.2%, and this year 3% of the total budget, but therefore, gentlemen, you have exceeded all resources and recorded a surplus in public spending of 50 billion, 16% of the budget you spend on procurement, and that is the result of what policy this government is leading to. We ask ourselves, and all citizens wonder if we have an economy that collapses like this when we practically read and hear the news that certain factories and certain businesses have closed down. What's that? Where's the exit, how are we going to increase production? How are we even going to be able to service all those obligations we have? With these loans and this borrowing, you gentlemen are borrowing generations and generations. Today here, among other things, we are discussing two loans to Corridor 10. One worth 354m euros and another of 150m euros, a total of 534m euros and nothing is disputed there. We all agree that it is necessary for Corridor 10 to be completed as soon as possible, as one of the strategic directions for Serbia's development. For these needs, the European Investment Bank gives 600m euros, the World Bank 275m euros, the Greek government 100m euros, the European Bank for Development gives 150m euros, a total of 1.125m euros. It is a dispute, Mr. Minister, which is one of the planned works that should be completed in 2009, which you promised for Corridor 10 and which is 90.2 km, this year only half of them will end up, or about 50 km. The second half will remain for next year and the question is whether it will end next year, for reasons you are well aware of, which is that you are unable to agree between the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of NIP and the Ministry of Spatial Planning. By then, there will be a bypass around Dimitrovgrad, the entire average of the Red River, as well as a bypass around Belgrade. I believe, Mr. Minister, that I share the joy of all the citizens of Rasinsko, Rasko, Moraviga and Zlatibor County that you announced the construction of the highway from Pojat to Požega, via Kruševac, Čačka, Kraljev and Užica, and that's good, we all welcome. It's just that the most important thing, Mr. Minister, is that these papers have a beginning and a successful end. In the end, gentlemen, on Saturday, December 12th, Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic said that part of the 2010 budget deficit, planned for 107 billion dinars, would be covered partly by a Russian $200m loan. What scares me, and I'm afraid it's exactly the kind of credit that's going to cover the budget deficit. Serbian citizens would be much happier if production, exports were increased in Serbia in 2010, and thus a smaller deficit, less debt, if there were more work and higher wages. In the end, with this government, trust us, and I share the opinion of most citizens, that is difficult to achieve.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33755	The word has been made by Parliamentarian Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic. I have just been informed that the LDP MP for the 6th session will represent MP Slobodan Maras, who has a word behind it. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33756	If I could begin my presentation with a request to the government. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia had the budget money the way you in the Assembly have time for parliamentary groups, the opposition in particular, to discuss these laws, we would do better. But you count that precisely per minute, per second, but sometimes to the extent that the most important laws are thrown out almost mockery, as was the procedure when the debate on the budget was opened and as it is today. I've been an MP since 1992, with a short break. For the first time in my life, I've experienced that the proposer doesn't explain his bill. Those who were taught would say, "Whoever suffers this is worthy of all that will happen to him." The question is, are we suffering? Personally, I have a lot of patience. At four this morning, I went to bed because it was the only physically available time in which I could get two laws, which were part of the afternoon debate, to read, to write amendments and to submit. I read these two others during the debate, not because I spend even enough time with my family, not because I have other and more important jobs, such as those that are not in the hall, but because the dynamics of work in which the parliament and the insight into the adoption of the law, the solutions that are being proposed, because today I did not even get an answer to the unconstitutional solutions proposed in the law on the takeover of stock companies, because I asked the chairman Komic whether there was a report by the Legislative Committee on the constitutionality of that law, I didn't even get the answer. I'd like to at least have that paper, save it for a time when it's not going to be a practice anymore, and say, this is how it used to be bad. The budget story had five hours of debate for all parliamentary groups. If the importance of the funds is at stake, if it is the importance of the law, if it is an abundance, everything was in line with the business provisions of Article 153 and further, with the special process of the debate on the budget, and if someone is convinced that silence or that asylum is ignoring what we are saying as opposition here, and they think that this is going through, I will not stop warning about what is unconstitutional, illegal and inadmissible. In that sense, I also begin the story of a joint law search, three of which I will not comment on, because I will always advocate investing credit funds in infrastructure development, because these are the only loans that can be cost-effectively secured by the return of credit and provide some new jobs and inflows in the budget, provided that they are used for the purposes for which they are taken, withdrawn in time, followed by regular legal procedures, reports on the use of funds, and all of you, Mr. Mrkonjic, I expect, without any sounding of anything that is not exclusively the belief that you should do so. However, two laws that I will pay special attention to are one programme loan for the development of public finances and is worth 70m euros and is extremely interesting. We have a loan that we are taking, a second loan war for the development of the private and financial sector, and which is in the shortest economic policy of this country, prescribed in terms of credit. When I read to you, respected citizens, and the conditions, you will simply ask yourself – whether when you go to the bank to take credit, which you need, for example, to build something on the house or change the crep on the old house, so that when the bankers tell you – that I would give you a loan that you will use for purpose, which you must guarantee by your name, honor, material property, with two girants, bonds, etc., is still to guarantee me that you hold the garbage and separate the glass, organic matter and paper into special bags, if you guarantee me that you never argue with your neighbors, if you guarantee me that you respect your parents maximum, or that you respect them by the principles by which I was raised in some other part of Europe and other way, you have such terms written in a loan contract with 70 million. For example, this one for the development of the public sector of finance says – the activities that the borrower takes under the programme includes, as if they had prescribed the agendas of the session in this Parliament – the borrower passed a law on the budgetary system acceptable to the bank, and I say – but not for the citizens of Serbia, who, among other things, foresees a clearly defined work of the said law, which covers the state of the borrower. We say – budget law does not cover the entire sector of the state. There are a hundred two agencies, only a dozen, one part, visible in the budget. Over 90 gain revenues in billions of euros with which Serbia's budget has no bearing on it, but citizens pay some of the services the state has prescribed. It is absolutely unconstitutional that you as a state have a budget where not all income and all expenditure for what is the jurisdiction of the state is shown. That's what the 92nd Constitution says. The team, the state said, has taken measures to ensure the transparency of fiscal risks including indirect obligations. I will continue to ask the government that submitted the draft budget, and how in 2008, was the country's VAT of 88 billion dinars, how was 98 in 2009, then about 100 billion dinars, and 134 billion VAT in 2010 projected in the country? Based on what? Increased employment, job creation or more inflation, so since it is shown in current prices that it is a product, increased gross social products, or have two million of some unknown people who have a cost-effective demand moved into this country and will increase consumption by 34%? This will remain an excuse for the 34 billion euros. Or is 650m euros a subsidy, which the government has given through banks, providing them with a job and subsidising interest, part of it, saying it's 18 billion, to return to the budget to show its success, or is it the result of some other mathematics, but certainly real results or charges that it has, as never before, been taxed by the administration, nor is that a hint of what could be said to move the grey economy into legal flows? The fiscal risk implies that the tax regulations you make are measured in terms of their impact on the growth of a social product that does not show how much better each citizen lives, to measure how much he invests in the area where the message is sent that we are developing production, industry and export-oriented branches. No, we do not have such a report on the assessment of fiscal risk and fiscal effects, although the minister here was obliged to provide the ministry with information on the effects of the laws they propose, that we will also be reached by MPs. It didn't come. Even when we had the Banking Act here on the agenda, someone boasted of the representatives of the government that they had plenty of reasons, but that argument was not delivered to the MPs and to this assembly. Whoever had the opportunity, a personal printer, or maybe a club to print from the government's website an explanation, maybe he could read it. That measure of disrespect for those you can love, that you don't love, that you don't respect, can't be simply acceptable to the citizens who expect here to, in principle, say what they can't. You might know better than we do, but I'm afraid this behavior will welcome different answers from them, because when you have the unemployment rate you're hiding in part, so you don't show the failure of this government, but when the unemployment rate is over 14.7%, it's clearly recorded, in that number there's an extremely high number of young people who are a potential source of social unrest. If you are not guided by your desire for success, let your fear of preservation guide you in the positions you are in. I'll skip commenting on the time again. We who invest a great deal of energy to read this, to guide you really without cynicism, most well-intentioned, to change because we live the lives of citizens and share it with them, everything we invest, we invest here, all our energy and work, we expect it to return to us even by accepting the best ideas, and if I were to be owned, and if I could get a wish, I'd ask that this clock out of here, because it seems offensive. Because when someone with the sheer skill of abuse of state resources managed to make most of it, and now it represents power, which the citizens' money bought, powers, takes the time of those and wonders if they'll use all the time - the poor radicals, the advances, the Jorgenka, will get tired of that story. I'm even well-intentioned – you'll get tired. No, it's my job, I'm doing it with pleasure. I want my engagement here to make sense. I can't keep my mouth shut, nor can watching an hour make me stop analyzing and tell you what's good. Then I was counseled, and another of you will be weary. I'm not worried that you're going to get tired and very often some people are making noises and winnings, let the citizens get tired of what's called misery and poverty, and let me never and all of you here leave this feeling of other people's misery and responsibility to change something in the sense of that misery. Whether each of us has this responsibility, I am not asking, will measure it by citizens, but it is indeed a fundamental order to explain the law, to explain the law on the takeover of stock companies, where Vesna Djindjic is once again the chairman of the Management Board of the Commercial Bank, the only remaining domestic bank, the director of the Privatisation Agency, which has resigned from abroad and which is today a member of the Management Board. I didn't believe it until people handed me the document to see. There are no colleagues from the party who are personified by the failed director of the Privatisation Agency, the former director of the Treasury, in which today I criticise Mrs. Diana for not having an internal audit, which has neither internal control nor an internal procedure. Whose shame is that? Who's going to put up with it? This is when citizens cannot leave and raise interest-like loans in Europe, which has been promised to happen by the arrival of these and such banks, from whom they will be asked to make an account. And where's the request to destroy some banks? Here, in this loan. I'm not getting out of the subject. The following position 4 says – the borrower took measures acceptable to the bank by introducing a public debt administration, whose establishment is foreseen by the 2005 legislation, July 15th, they specify, and we all mention 2005. It says – including the appropriate budget for the work of the mentioned administration, the adoption of the organisational scheme and the appointment of the staff. Point 2 is said - the borrower has passed the Public Procurement Act, acceptable to the Bank. Ask our companies if it's acceptable for them to apply those clauses when 20% more expensive can't get credit, but have to appear as producers? Do you know which companies? Serbia is the largest city in the world today. Maybe others don't know who he is? I was the privatisation minister when the company appeared before the French to buy the Beocina cement factory and was reported to the European Commission that at the time of the sanctions it was trying to work with Serbia. I know what these people offer, how they do, and that they were owners of a French company, and when they didn't know about it with 20% in the 40s and something from the beginning. I know that me and my colleagues have been immune to their stories, their offers and everything else that goes on in such a business. It is also known today who was not immune to these and such bidders, and performers, who work today throughout Serbia, and for them are producers of those surviving domestic companies. What's the big deal? This few other good companies, someone mentioned "The Bridge", "Energoproject", and to add to them "Politicals", "Evening News", "Simpo" and "Tiger", is just a few companies that next week, when you adopt a law on the abolition of the action fund, to put this kind of take over without public offerings, behind closed doors, past the criteria of competition and the public, someone you agree to sell to, and that part of the capital in these companies that have managed to save themselves. I'm surprised by the peace with which you leave your coalition partners to rule over all the resources that are not in this Serbia, said someone today, left behind no one but the property of all of us. If someone pretends not to understand the consequences of the devastating effects of such effects, I say that at least seven laws will be broken at the moment when you abolish the action fund and set up actions, which will be put before the Privatisation Agency, the agency that has most compromised reforms and what we all expected to happen after 2000, with few cancellations of contracts, a large number of unemployed and lost hopes. Is that what they deserve to take and decide and place in these companies with economic representatives, they did not say well to the protectors, because they are not in a portable sense words, social capital where privatisation has not yet been made, because the Share Fund is the owner of the share of assets in these companies? The fact that there's not much to talk about, that the restructuring regulation was brought to the government by the 27th, published in Official Messenger 98. Who else reads the messengers? We few. Who's watching what's going on? Do you really think one day he won't be able to draw a line like he spent on privatisation and say, "Where's the money?" One day she's gonna have to, like this thing that just scratched the DRI, take the bill and say, "Yes, we did it." Someone has to take responsibility for that. I know the persistent and hardworking who file charges to the Constitutional Court, or protection from the Constitutional Court and, for example, ask for a decision that the judge cannot be elected, 13 cases are in Novi Sad... High-level judges, assessed by the best assessment of expertise, could not be chosen because their spouses are lawyers. This kind of possible conflict of interest is solved by procedural laws, criminal, litigation. It is known that not women can judge but third or fourth generations, any kind of family relationship cannot be repeated in the same dispute. No one has ever announced that as a condition for selecting judges. No one has even indicated, no one here has heard it, but 13 people have been eliminated in Novi Sad and 22 in Belgrade. Imagine your child dreaming of being a judge, a successful, the best. She was lucky to find a good, solid guy, accidentally a lawyer, and marry him now and now, not knowing what would happen to her, she's losing her constitutional right to work because someone says they can't be spouses (President: Time). ) because this allegedly leads to a conflict of interest. Thank you. I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33757	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go, Mr. Grouchy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33758	Don't make a mistake again? It's my duty to say a few words, no matter how many of your discussions go to the budget maker, to the lovely wife Diana, but I've written down everything you've said. Now maybe that gets in the way of the previous agenda. Mr. Mirko Munjic and Aca Martinovic spoke about the law, I wrote down, I will convey, even the personal problem of the lady who has, who is now carrying a child, etc. And a whole series of other women, I'll pass it on to the authorities. Ilic was critical of some things and I absolutely agree with him. Please give me that paper because I don't have it. He's partly right. Where's he wrong? Traffic infrastructure funds, I started using a new term, because now the infrastructure is, and I'm proud of that, for the last two years, I've entered all the pores of society, I'm saying I'm in charge of traffic infrastructure. So part of the funding for project implementation and transport infrastructure went three or four years back and this year from NIP funds. That's why we agreed that part of the money, which refers to the Kragujevac-Batocina highway, is coming from those funds. That's why the NIP Department runs the business. Of course, all professional and operational things continue to work for Serbia's roads. As for my friend and colleague Radet Obradovic, he's absolutely right. When the government was formed, my first question as a layman was -- what category are we in, and they exist in these world banks three or four categories, we as a country? Not in charge, in charge, in debt? That's when I was told we were not in charge. Today they tell me we're in charge. So we decided to enter into the realisation of these corridors, because it took a billion and a half euros to complete 250km of highway through our country. I answer to my colleague Obradovic, we are still in charge of the country and taking credit for those projects coming back is positive, because we can do this. The quality of these projects is proof of what Mr. Radulovic has collected. Thanks for what he did. We've secured a billion and we've provided 125 million to fund Corridor 10 through our country. It's not like I'm the biggest optimist and corridor lover, bigger than Boris Tadic, I didn't believe. Today I am proud of my new obligation to organize. Part of the criticism is right. Let's get organized faster to make it happen. I would correct Mr. Radulovic, this year we could only do what we did, complete 20km in the south to complete and edit only the second tape, not brag about what was not done, in the north and end the bypass around Belgrade. That's 48.5 kilometers, and there's a total of 9 billion dinars, how much money we had in the budget. Also, this year we have made all the necessary preparations for the next year and that year to be impacted. So next year, we can realize 100 or 120 kilometers and that much more, and then Corridor 10 would be finished. The goal is that the government that will be next in 2012, I will not comment on that part, as long as the government will continue, that this corridor will be completed and what is for me as a man who has invested 20 years of his knowledge and work in Corridor, that this time, at least the traveller will not stop. These are the answers to people who have been professionally analyzed, especially thanks to my friend Zoran Krasic. He's absolutely right. There are ongoing problems with Piroth and some other shares, but these are not the problems of that order that could stop the realization of the Corridor. Of course, Mrs. Tabakovic, who analyzes with a lot of confidence, at the very end of the line, I hope to endure this entire government and that for my term, at least a hundred more kilometers will be completed. So we're going to be taking bills for every dinar invested in Corridor 10. There'll be no theft, and we've got problems. Last time I announced it to the Assembly, I even suggested to the Prime Minister that we come soon with a new law and that we pray that he goes over the line for our businesses, which is now a problem, to get a job. I remind you, all of these 50 kilometers this year have been working for our companies. We could do that because we went to a domestic tender. When tenders are international banks, we can't influence it at all. That is why I am now giving an idea of what the bill will be, because I don't see that anyone else can make that decision, so that our companies can work in the north from Horgos to Novi Sad next year, there will be another 10km of highway and the total value of 60 million works to be done by our companies, they have suggested that they join themselves and ask for a special law to work at the prices at which they have worked and so far on the project they work that north end up in a year. Believe me, it's a fantastic offer and she's in the government right now and we're gonna ask her to come before you in the form of some special law. Mr. Jovanovic said it nicely, I'm glad he knows it, the two tenders we have today for Corridor 10, one travel, and one railway, have problems. Why? On this railway that goes discreetly, but goes slowly, on one bridge of 9, 10 million euros, ten foreign companies are the first, our companies are not worthy of positions, say Mostogradnja, I was talking about Mostogradja, which is 70% owned by the state, there are no even conditions to compete. On the tour around Dimitrovgrad, Mr. Krasic, there's no problem, there's a problem now that our company's consortium is fifth. The tender is open, five companies are before ours, and there's the Alpine, already called the Alpine, but now there's some idea of how we can get past it. However, we cannot break the terms of the banks, but we can negotiate. So, the goal and my goal as minister is to overcome, and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, to get as many jobs as possible from these loans to our businesses, because that's what we promised and what I think we can accomplish. Please help us here. As for criticism related to these other laws, I must say that all the laws relating to loans, first of all, Mrs. Jorgenki Tabakovic, are very strictly analysed. I can't get the money, and she knows it very well, she remembered the time from ten years ago, and then we worked together, she can't get any money from foreign loans to go for any other purpose. The situation is verified in the World Bank or the European Investment Bank or in credited banks. We just have to have projects, like Corridor 10, and I'm proud to point out, the full consensus of all parties, we can criticise ourselves that the government is wrong, should fall or should not fall, but somewhere we must be all for our party one time, let's act like Rasim, has escaped, as a party, Serbia, our party is Serbia. That's the point. Come on, I'm always talking about getting us together around Corridor 10. Let's keep it that way in all national programs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33759	Mr. Mirko Munjic advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and the word after that is Mr. Maras. Oh, no? Injury of the Rules of Procedure? There's no basis for replication. The minister said he really didn't have a basis for replication. Mr. Free Maras has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33760	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, unfortunately, after Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic's euphoric speech, I have to turn a little bit to the atmosphere in which we talk, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, and above all, Madam President, about this point of the agenda, that is, about the united points. As we are talking about and in what atmosphere we are talking about this morning and Friday when we started discussing the 2010 draft budget, I think it is irresponsible and unserious. It is unserious that we are in violation of the Rules of Procedure today, and you know it very well, as we insisted on Friday that without the opinion of the Finance Committee, we cannot begin the debate, and also today we are in violation of the Rules of Procedure, because we are not discussing the budget law in particular. The government couldn't respond to the amendments in two days, and that's why we couldn't talk about it today on the Finance Committee, and we moved on to these points that matter. Why do I find it irresponsible and irresponsible? We, Mr. Mrkonjic, received the DRI Report, received the 2008 final account, and we entered the debate on the 2010 budget. The problem, Mr Mrkonjic, is that the DRI report showed that the funds allocated by the ministries were not used in accordance with the law. The one who's your prime minister, he said it was the accountant's fault. I'd like to, I'm sorry he's not here, you said you'd like to come along with the Prime Minister as soon as possible with some law. Unfortunately, the prime minister when he explained the budget was there for three minutes. The prime minister did not explain how accountants can be guilty when public procurement is not done in accordance with the law. It has nothing to do with bookkeepers. We are listening here today, or discussing new tasks of the Republic of Serbia, but what is interesting, and I have not heard anyone mention it, and that is what is in the 2010 budget. Serbia's public company 150m dollars, 270m euros, JAT 50m euros, Railway 600m dollars and 837m euros. It's all waiting for us in 2010, where the state will give guarantees. We are going back to that important item of the budget again, why we continue to lose the subsidy and why still the citizens of Serbia, i.e. the state, guarantees on its behalf. I have to get back to the railroad. The other day, you agreed with that, of the 12 billion dinars going to the railroad, 12.5 billion goes to pay. As our president said, if he can bankrupt the state and fail, then so can the Serbian Railway. As long as the citizens pay. We have JP "Srbigas", which God knows, when you add up all the statements from the directors of "Srbigas" you get to some 170m-euro loss figure, and we will now in the next year, the state of Serbia will give guarantees, which is a member of the 3rd budget for 2010, $150m and 270m euros. These losers keep showing up in that budget like a big item. That's why we suggested, and I'm sorry that there's no finance minister here, we met outside the gym, and we realized that the amendment that the LDP submitted was very acceptable, but there's no political agreement. You're looking for a political deal for Corridor 10, that's fine, that's Serbia's dry need, like the NIS vein, so is this Serbia's spine and that's necessary, and of course you have our support to complete such a corridor and that kind of work is done. And I hope so, and I know you're full of energy, and with the right support, you'll probably end up when you've planned it. The problem is that we were looking and you heard the other day, and the head of the parliamentary group that makes up the ruling council asked for a public conversation with the prime minister and finance minister. We of the LDP also asked the finance minister to try to make some kind of deal, not some deal that will be valid from today until tomorrow, but some agreement that, in the long run, put some kind of stability on this country and at least some hope for citizens to pour in and distribute responsibility. Unfortunately, our colleagues from the retirement group didn't understand our idea very well. If we have to sit down with them, we'll talk to them and try to explain to them what our idea is. One country that owes so much has to be here and someone has to speak up and explain today's agenda. I respect my SPS colleagues, because of you, he came out here and supported and said he'd vote, and that's fine. We had a question on the Agriculture Committee the other day that was referred to the assistant minister and Mrs Diana Dragutinovic. Why will pensions for farmers only be paid in 2011 as set out in Article 43. Bills in the 2010 budget? Our country is in debt, it has an internal debt, external debt still goes through these borrowings. So I'm not just talking about what's on the agenda today, but I'm also telling you what's in the 2010 budget. That's billions. The railroad itself, over a billion euros. They're amazing numbers, and someone's gonna have to pay for it, which is why we suggested an intergenerational arrangement. To share that burden in the right way, to reroute a certain portion of the funds, we talked so much that that 10% increase in pensions didn't actually bring anything, it just collapsed even more systems. I must, Madam President, ask you a question - the head of the Parliamentary Group of Minority Mr. Pastor said he would not support this draft budget for one simple reason why the Constitution was violated, Article 184. Madam President, we're breaking the Rules of Procedure here. We're breaking laws. The expropriation law that exists is deregating a special lex specialis by law for a single company. We're breaking the Constitution. Vojvodina must get 7% of the budget. Only when you hear what the provincial finance secretary said, when you listen to the head of the Parliamentary Minority Group, who today confirmed there is no response from the government, no desire to talk, no 7% foreseen by the Vojvodina Constitution. The government has skillfully, but truly skillfully, transferred certain funds, i.e. 6.5 billion that are transfers to local self-government, as if that's the part that belongs to Vojvodina and in fact, instead of 25 billion, we came to 31.6 billion that are total funds for Vojvodina, not counting the part that should go for capital investments. That won't reach 7% of the constitutionals. Therefore, I must ask you, Madam President, to return to the beginning, irresponsiblely and unseriously, for days, look at how many MPs sitting here from the ruling majority have kept silent for days when we passed the Statute of Vojvodina and the Law of Jurisdiction. They had no intention of defending that law. Today he was declared in the Duke's Assembly. It wasn't you who were invited, it wasn't President Tadic, he wasn't the prime minister. The two were in Sremska Mitrovica, far from Novi Sad less than Belgrade, but they did not find it appropriate to attend the declaration of Vojvodina's statutes. You weren't. Why are we devising everything we're doing here? Why aren't we standing behind what we're doing? Often, we from the LDP, who were against this constitution, must defend this constitution from those who brought it. We are really warning, the budget is counter-constitutional, not a respected member of 184, you will not have support, not only the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, but that day I saw that Mr. Esad Judžević applauded Mr. Pastor. Why are we going into the 2010 budget debate without any talks with the opposition? Do you really think that's the government's budget? No, that is the budget of the Republic of Serbia, according to Ivan Andric. I agree that we all want to do well here and that we want to help, to help make that budget look better and be acceptable, but in the way that Mrs Diana Dragutinovic presented it here, that it is both social and developmental, it is impossible. Unfortunately, he's just maintaining the status quo, and we need to make a deal to move forward. I know that you, Mr. Mrkonjic, I really have a lot of respect for the energy you invest in the work you do, I know that you will invest all your energy to do what you started, but unfortunately, without having an account, and that step was the report of the State Auditing Institution, to repeat, as our President Cedomir Jovanovic said, we do not think that the ministers are thieves, but in order to be able to give you consent for 2010 to spend the money of Serbian citizens, we need to see how it was done in 2008 and where they missed. I think it is very important, as you are asking for a consensus for Corridor 10, to find such a consensus on other important issues, and above all the future of this country, and the future of this country is not in this budget for 2010. This is still standing in the mud, surviving, but standing in the mud. There's no policy here, there's no politics at all. Unfortunately, Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic doesn't understand it, not because she doesn't want to understand, but because she's simply not a politician...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-14-0.u33761	Mr. Marash, it's six o'clock, we haven't extended our work, and I'm guessing no one would want to break the Rules of Procedure, so we'll work longer, and that's why we'll continue work tomorrow at 1:00. Mr. Marash has the right to complete his exposure, so we're actually going to start working with you. Thank you for your participation in the debate. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that we are 116 Members of the People. To accurately determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert identification cards into the MPs' units. Since you're 89, I realize the conditions for work have been created. Would one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Rule 235 of our Rules of Procedure? The mandated representatives of their parliamentary groups are Mr Milan Dimitrijevic and Sasa Milenic. First, Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic has a word. Here you go.
