ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19637	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, last Thursday I began with a parliamentary question regarding the statements of Minister Dacic. In response to the parliamentary question, he linked the party organised in Bujanovac to the problem of preserving the country's integrity, to continue, in the same sentence, that "MUP will take whatever is in our jurisdiction to prevent any violation of our country's territorial integrity and, as you know, several criminal groups have been arrested in that area and a group belonging to the former KLA, who committed war crimes against Serbs and other non-Albanians in Gjilan County in 1999." Last time I pointed out as a very tasteless and inappropriate connection of the Round Table to the problem presented by Mr. Minister. However, I am now asking the question of the Ministry of Justice – what will be done to prevent such pressures against the citizens of this country, because I believe that any citizen, in any context, needs to be provided with an objective judicial process, in which it will be proven whether someone is guilty or without grounds? I consider this a kind of pressure, and I ask the Department of Justice to take steps to prevent this kind of practice of pressure and publishing to guilty citizens who are suspicious at these moments. The procedure would have to be done objectively and properly, not pre-proclaimed guilty even though, in my knowledge, there is still no valid evidence. Second question. For 10 years, Albanian-language schools in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji have been working without work licenses, as the state does not allow them to pass a professional exam. We organized an expert exam for teachers who performed teaching in Albanian 20-30 years ago in a single-party system. Now, for five or six years now, in all my contacts with all the ministers of education, and there were four or five of them in this period, I am unable to prove that teaching methods in Albanian should be held in schools where they teach. A man teaching in Albanian cannot pass a methodology in Belgrade, in schools where classes are conducted in Serbian. There's been no solution for 10 years. In 2006, it started with a group of teachers and teachers for Albanian language, and it was necessary for all teachers of all courses to do so and organise. After that, however, we have a three-year break. Although I visited the minister, I explained this problem, so far there is no concrete solution. And this school year is going, and professional exams for Albanian schools in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji are not and will not be organised this year. So I ask the question in this way – what will the Ministry specifically do to solve this sensitive problem and to allow the legal right of teachers in these schools to pass a professional exam, to have a license and to exercise the rights laid down by law from working relationship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19638	Thank you. Issues will be forwarded to the government, i.e. the resolution ministries. Mr. Dragan Shormaz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19639	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday we witnessed a visit by the US Vice President to the executive government in Serbia, since it is obvious that Serbia has not been visited. He was in Bosnia the day before yesterday and spoke in the Bosnian Parliament. It is now located in the territory of the Serbian AP Kosovo and Metohija, but speaks in the parliament of the false state of Kosovo, addressing lawmakers in the assembly where, mainly, all terrorists and criminals are. Thank God, he didn't have the courage to show up here, because he didn't even have the place to appear in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so I can say that everything came down to visit the executive authority in Serbia and Serbia, i.e. America's favorite NGOs, at a dinner held by state president Boris Tadic for Biden, Miljenko Deretta and Miskovic. This morning it flew away, the crowd passed, flew into the territory of Serbia's AP Kosovo and Metohija. Otherwise, he went to greet some Kosovoers, he went to support the creation of the state, which he supports and, above all, NATO, with forces below present in the coverage of Resolution 1244, which serves only as a cover, legitimacy, to make Albanians a state. But we didn't hear anything yesterday from an executive in Serbia that she told the United States through a man who called us criminals, primitives, murderers. We have not heard that they made any remarks about the work of EULEX in Kosovo. We have not heard that they have made any remarks about the behaviour of EULEX or EU representative in Kosovo, Peter Feith, who calls the Serbs there extremists and northern Kosovo the last black hole in Europe. All we heard was that Serbia will never recognise Kosovo. They don't care. They don't care what Serbia says until it does anything. That's the problem. When will the executive power in Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, begin to act? When will they ask the United States, as members of the UN Security Council, to restart the process of negotiating and determining the status of the Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija, based on the UN Charter and on international law? While we are waiting for the International Court's advisory opinion in The Hague, and we told you that this was a mistake, that it should be sued, because on the basis of the lawsuit, the Court must bring a solution, not an advisory opinion, during that time the Kingdom of Bahrain recognised Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state, and now it is 60. So, what President Tadic said, that this process of recognition would stop, did not happen. The United States puts pressure on countries in the world every day to recognise Kosovo, and that happens. They're not our friends, and whoever doesn't see it is blind in the eyes. Cooperation should exist, but we must protect our national and national interests. When will that question be asked? I repeat, once again, I ask the question, first of all, to the groups in the parliamentary majority, the SPS and the DS -- will you vote for the SOFA agreement? If you vote for the agreement, it will be another proof that you, in fact, recognise Kosovo's independence as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19640	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. The word is Mr Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19641	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I would like first to inform you that I have answered all the questions that the NS Parliament Club, namely the NS MPs and I, personally, received with a delay, but we are pleased with the fact that almost all ministers have answered whether or not we agree with the content of these answers. There's only one question we didn't get an answer for. Since we've had the intervention and your cabinet to deliver, not to say, sue ministers who haven't answered the questions, and since I think you've figured out the style of work of the NS Parliament Club, we're going to be asking that question behind this pay phone, from this place, until we get an answer. My question is for the Minister of Energy, Mr Peter Skundric. It's about the price of gas for households. Explanation. Do the citizens of Serbia remember, do fellow MPs remember what we are like here, from various party heads and all of us here together, told Serbian citizens when the price of gas was raised, above all, for households? Now a lot of people have shut up. I want to remind the public that it was then said that the price of gas for household is formed at the average nine-month price, so nine months ago, oil derivatives. I would like to remind all fellow MPs that at that moment, when the price of gas was raised by 60% for all citizens of Serbia, the price of a thousand cubic metres of gas from Russia, or from where we're getting it, was $450; now that price is about 300 dollars. Today, in all the media, we have a statement from the Energy Agency, which announces a new collection of gas prices, so it is my question – what will the Ministry of Energy do if it has some power over the monopoly company "Srbigas" to do? I note that, at least in western Serbia, at least in the town of Cačka, where I come from, citizens directly by their means participated in the construction of a secondary network. Now they have to put up with the monopoly of a public company, not to tell the state, and that someone, as they say in our neighborhood, is "clamping" at the price of gas. I would remind my fellow Social Democrats Vojvodina League counterparts, who these days are distracting Serbian citizens and this congregation by making up some fascism in Serbia, that their great leader waved a stick in this assembly, though, in that hall there, in King Milan, that he would bring down the government, that there is a gas mob in Serbia, and now there is nothing left for anyone; now there is only left for New Serbia, with its nine MPs, to try to protect the citizens of Serbia who are heating up the gas from the monopoly of the public enterprise and the state. I would point out to colleagues from the Social Democrats of Vojvodina that, out of 100% of Serbian citizens who use gas as energy to heat their houses and apartments, 70% from Vojvodina. It's so much stranger that they don't answer these days, they don't protest. From that, their silence, I can only conclude that perhaps they or their leader personally got free gas. Of course, I say this a little ironically, I don't think so, but I expect them to talk about the real interests of citizens, not inventing interesting, flammable political topics, which are further shared by political space and political scene in Serbia, about some fascism in Serbia. So my question for Minister Skundric is – why is the price of gas increased for Serbian citizens, when the world price, i.e. the import price, fell and whether there is a monopoly of the public company "Srbigas"? I want to use these 20 seconds left to ask, will anyone answer to the citizens of Nis for which the route of gas, so, South Stream, bypass Nis? Whose idea is that, and who's in the interest of it? The citizens of Nis and that region are certainly not in the interest and we will talk about it from that place these days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19642	Thank you. The word is Munir Poturak. Of course we'll update the answer to your question and ask professional services to do it this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19643	Dear President, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens of Serbia, a few days ago, I came from this pay phone, based on an article in the daily press on the problem of the shadow cheese producer, to contact the Ministry of Agriculture and those in charge of the area. I intend to inform of a broader action by the Ministry of Agriculture and the people who are in charge in the area, who have already launched the action so that the problem, piled up with hundreds of tons of shaded traditional cheese, has resolved, where, above all, the endangered farmers, the people who traditionally produce this cheese, because of the difficult export conditions towards Montenegro, where they sold it most often, as they have produced it, and towards Kosovo, where the consumption of that cheese was higher. As of last year and this year, people have been limited in the possibility of selling this piled cheese. The chance is that these new laws on agriculture, which are in the procedure in the Assembly, and the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture, solve this problem in an adequate manner and in the next Thursday, a procedure will be established with producers on how they can export the cheese out of Serbia, as well as to be available in Serbia, in trades, "meraclys" for traditional shadow cheese. For this reason, I would like to thank the people of the Ministry of Agriculture for their quick action, thanking the daily press for recognising the problem and thanking all citizens of Serbia who, with their support in the papers and electronic support, helped the broad action to solve this problem as soon as possible. The second thing I wanted to mention was the government and the Ministry of Finance. On 21.4., a letter was sent to customs office in the Kingdom concerning the reregistering of foreign vehicles on domestic plates, within all those measures established by the Government. The problem arose when customs in Novi Pazar could no longer perform such a re-registration. All customs in Serbia are allowed and allowed, this is not yet possible in Novi Pazar. I would like to point out that if the government intends to make these measures in Serbia to make decisions so that people are equally, evenly, throughout Serbia, using the benefits and benefits of the law, it is an opportunity to reregister people from Pazar, Sedica and Tutina in the customs office of Novi Pazar, there are, I think, tens to twenty thousand vehicles with Montenegrin plates. The effect is multiple. People will be reduced by at least 300 kilometers to the King and back, for some of the municipalities that are surrounded. It's a direct aid to our citizens. Some revenues will come from customs in Novi Pazar. Since the municipality, due to the current bad financial situation, the area where these vehicles are to be placed for a few days has no money to asphalt, tens of thousands of vehicles planned to register in Novi Pazar will be made an income of 110,000 euros, which is enough to pave the way for the part to be paved and arranged as it deserves. The question is, what are the customs deficiencies in the New Market that this re-registration cannot be done and when, during what period, can these deficiencies be eliminated? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19644	Thank you, Mr. Poturak. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19645	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, unfortunately, this is not the President of the Administrative Committee, because the question I want to refer to has big ties to the Administrative Committee, but I am asking you a question, as president of the Assembly, is there a citizen of the first and second order in this country, is there an untouchable citizen and what is the difference between those people who have immunity, whose immunity is being discussed by the Administrative Committee, and people that the Administrative Committee does not discuss at all, or does this not put on the agenda? What kind of country do we live in? Who gives the right to any individual to exempt anyone from the law or obligations they should meet? As speaker of the assembly, you should consider this, among other things, because you yourself were the victim of the political persecution of the DS, or the then DOS, in 2003. I'm sure you haven't forgotten when they asked you, like me, to remove immunity for, I hope, the alleged crimes you've committed. In my case, the court confirmed it. When things change, when someone else comes under attack, there's not a single letter. Nothing's going on. I've got proof here. Prior to the start of the hearing, the president concluded that he had pooled the criminal records of Case number K 854/08 and found in the same statement that the judge in question had sent three orders and one letter to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, noting that a criminal case against the defendant Boris Tadic was being brought before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, because of the criminal act of defamation referred to in Article 171(2) in connection with Article 1(1). The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia, and that until today's Administrative Committee has never decided. You remind the SRS MPs, allegedly, because someone has done something other than the Rules of Procedure, you exclude us from the session, and the head of the ZES Group is one of the harshest swearings in the Serbian language to the second head of the parliamentary group, and you do not find it appropriate to warn her. But this is where the question arises – do you protect Boris Tadic and thus acknowledge that he has spoken slander? Why are you doing this? Boris Tadic is a man who likes to come out on the line. At least that's how he boasted. I call him on the line, to say that he had the courage to say on television at the time of the election campaign – to decide whether or not he lied or not, whether he was slandering or not. Why is he hiding behind the Administrative Committee and behind the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Where's Boris Tadic? At least now, Mr. Micunovic, we don't have that law on protecting the character and his actions. Why does Boris Tadic, who had the opportunity to learn from you some democratic principles, not act on these democratic principles? Why doesn't he look up to the President of the Republic of Italy, Mr Berlusconi? He's a little bit, so he goes to court, doesn't call for immunity. If he had the courage to face Serbian citizens in a pre-election campaign, three days before the elections, to say what he said, what does not appear in court? (President: Time. Time will show that Boris Tadic has slandered, lied, and this is important for Serbian citizens to see how you behave, and I ask you a question... (The microphone's off. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19646	Since you asked me too, I will collect information, so I will answer you in writing, but I must say it is true that Mr. Tadic likes to come out on the line and he wins when he comes out on the line. Mr. Free Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19647	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... Thank you very much. Madam President, first of all, I wanted to remind you of Article 235 of our Rules of Procedure, paragraph 1 – that all persons to whom MPs of the National Assembly, in the days when this is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, are obliged to make the request for an explanation, or notice, in writing, to deliver to the MP within 15 days. Unfortunately, it has been more than 40 days since I first asked the question of which is the public interest, the market interest, that public enterprises that are monopolies advertised by the daily newspapers, although, by law, they are not only bound to advertise, but also to advertise, etc. I also asked a question for the NIS final account and I didn't get an answer. Your service contacted us and last week we reiterated that we wanted to get an answer to these questions and, of course, we haven't gotten them yet. In terms of the second issue, related to the NIS final account, what is interesting is that Serbian citizens have the worst gasoline, the worst diesel sold at our pumps, but at the same time the most expensive in the environment. Only in Slovenia, for some cent, is more expensive gasoline. Diesel's cheaper. All countries in the environment, and those in the EU, such as Romania, Bulgaria and Greece, have cheaper fuel than Serbian citizens, or pay it cheaper. All I care about is, is that why we sold NIS 51% to pay for the most expensive fuel? Serbia's oil industry is no longer owned by the Republic of Serbia, more specifically, the minority part remains, and I am interested in how the government will react, it is a question for Prime Minister Cvetkovic, at the request of NIS to raise fuel prices? What is very interesting is that through the media we have been informed that a report by an independent audit institution, which should be checked, or by an agency that should check and determine which NIS final account is valid, will the one who has submitted the old management, in which the profit was shown, or the one in which the new management, requesting an additional deadline, indicate the loss. All legal deadlines have passed to deliver the NIS final account, up to a few months ago, in the 100% ownership of the Republic of Serbia. We don't know if it's a loss or a gain. Is it true what is speculating in the public, it is my particular question to Prime Minister Cvetkovic, that because the loss has been made, because NIS was additionally in debt in 2008, beyond any agreement signed with Russia, whether because the large funds were leaving the NIS account to advertise certain television shows, or to finance the films of the cantator's first, the ownership structure in NIS, or whether Serbia will have a smaller percentage of ownership? The second question, which I also have to ask Prime Minister Cvetkovic, is – how does he have the cheek, how is it possible to go to open works on the Horgos highway – Novi Sad, which have already been opened 17 times, in order to show the three vehicles, one house and one guard, that they all split up in the same place the next day? You could have organized a press in the government, in the presidency, and you could say -- we want constitutional changes, we want to reduce the number of MPs, not open the highway. It's extremely irresponsible, inconclusive. What is worst of all, why are citizens of Serbia treated like this? (President: Time. ) A concrete question for the prime minister – when will the works on the highway begin and when will they be completed?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19648	Thank you. It will be forwarded to the Prime Minister. Mrs. Nada Kolundžija, then Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19649	President-in-Office, I am using the right to replicated Article 104, given that I am not only directly mentioned, but that the most harsh untruth has been given to me, as well as to the president of the party and the President of the Republic. I've never sent anyone an ugly word or a simple word, and those whose language it is, which is used in those words, even in the freest translation, would not be able to narrow it down to that language. Also, what I'm trying to say is that the criminal report here is essentially an ordinary slander against President Boris Tadic, who was filed by the SRS, but there is something much more important to deal with. It will deal with the court's request to remove immunity for crimes committed by some MPs hiding behind immunity, and criminal acts do not fall under what normal political activity and exchange of political arguments, regardless of what level these arguments were.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19650	Thank you. Mr. Vladan Batic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19651	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that the practice of asking parliamentary questions has been introduced, but it would be even better if the ministers in charge were to give answers, or give correct and concrete answers. So far I've asked about 40 questions, got four answers. From most ministers, never an answer. Of some, such as the Minister of Culture, a completely pointless response, from the Minister of Ecology, to the accent that occurred at the ashes of the Termoelectrica B, when, as if the sun eclipse had occurred in the day of day, people shut themselves in rooms, houses, ashes entering the freezer, I get the answer that he was an inspector and that he found no pollution. That's absurd. That's not normal. Secondly, I received the only concrete answer from Minister Dacic about some financial abuses, the criminal activities of some phantom companies in Obrenovac, and that is fine, but I never got an answer from him about the criminal events in the football club "Belgrade" from Karaburma. I ask a question, more requests, some question, to the ministers of justice and finance. Here I have copies of the personal incomes of three municipal court workers in Obrenovac: Vukanovic Marina, housekeeper – 11,000 monthly salary, Ilic Dragana – 12,200, Lazić Mirka, also housekeeper – 12,000. How do these people survive with 12,000? Will something be done to restore these people to dignity, that they can live and work normally? The next question – for Minister Dinkic, or Mrs Dragutinovic. I have never received any answers from Dinkic about his delusions, fraud and lies over the Fiat in Kragujevac, as well as his delusions, frauds and lies over a fee for 1,000-euro free action. As a matter of principle, don't take the donkey to green grass. The next issue concerns privatisation, which is the current topic in Serbia. I'm asking the Minister of Economy to answer us about the privatisations in Obrenovac. "The first spark" Baric was once a giant, hired over 5,000 people, thousands of citizens of Baric, Obrenovac and the environment lived and worked thanks to "The First Sparks". There's a few dozen workers working there today. There were some suspicious privatisations of some first spark plants, about 30-40 personal incomes for workers not paid, the social programme is not respected, everything has healed into thorns and weeds, and this is clearly infested as Alajbeg's straw. What about privatizing "First Spark" Barich? What about the privatisation of Bora Markovic on the Sava coast? It was once the famous scraper Simovic, 70 years ago, known throughout the region. Zabrežje was the largest port on the Sava. This Simovic had a world-class fire protection system in the factory. He had built apartments for all the employees 70 years ago. He was nationalized and killed as a state enemy. Grained thorns and weeds, put in a lock. There was one failed privatisation. That's the balance. Let it return to the owners, as well as Komgrap, which was also a nationalised property, but here we do not have a law on denationalisation. Instead, we have new nationalizations, like Wet Gora for Emir Kusturica, or Nemanja Kusturica, I don't know what his real name is today. What about Dragan Markovic, a agricultural combination with several thousand hectares, which could feed, as was once said, this whole part of Serbia? Tavori, barely makes ends meet, huge potentials, one unsuccessful privatisation. Privatisation of the Posavina commercial company, where hundreds of employees protest, disputes in the Commercial Court, etc., problems with upgrades, upgrades, etc. The topic and the questions are more, I mentioned only a few companies in Obrenovac and asked for concrete, not unblemished and pointless answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19652	Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19653	On a parliamentary issue concerning the work of the Agency for Privatisation, Criminal Privatisation, or the actions of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, we are not as the Prosperity Group Forward Serbia yet to receive an answer. However, I would like to ask today a very current question to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and the Privatisation Agency, which reads: Why does BD "Agro" from Dobanovac allow crime and privatisation of BD "Agro", whose small shareholders are in protest today in front of the Agency for Privatisation Against Unconscious Treatment and Inaction of the Agency in accordance with the contract? I particularly insist on this particular case, as it is a matter of surrender, before the state authorities, material evidence confirming the dissatisfaction of small shareholders, who proved to the Privatisation Agency that the buyer Đuro Obradovic illegally raised from the BD "Agro" account about two million euros in the name of the previously executed investment obligation under the privatisation contract, that he gave to his associate 1.2 hectares of attractive pay without legal basis, that he illegally, meaning, without a basis, took about 4.2 hectares of the country's BD "Agro", which is located along the highway. The country later sold by 1.8m euros. At least two payments for the purchase price he paid from the company's account he bought, and he had to do it personally. For over 1m euros, illegally, he mortgaged BD "Agro"'s assets in favour of other legal entities. At the sale of 100.2 hectares of the country in the Dobanovci industrial zone, companies and small shareholders were damaged by sevenm euros. Unwittingly and unintendedly, 25m euros of credit were spent, while public information funds, including the Public Service, are advertised by successful privatisation. For each of these allegations, which on any of the convenient occasions, perhaps even today, I will explain to you with concrete documents, there is valid court evidence. Is there a threat to the right of any shareholder, the right that this state must protect as it promotes the Law on the Market of Securities against Value, Privatisation and Action, or is it more of an obstacle to the interests of certain powerful people, such as this case? Please ask the Privatisation Agency for an answer. Is Mrs Vesna Djindjic's resignation directly related to the investigation conducted in this process and to the close ties of former privatisation ministers, whose assistants, assistants, in particular, are employees of this company. Behind every alleged claim, I say, there is judicially valid evidence and a concrete example, which I present, because it is the principle of robbery privatisation, which the SNS is fighting against.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19654	Thank you. Mr. Todorovic has already had an address. There is no basis for replica (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Since there is no basis, please don't, it really doesn't make sense. ) Please, you're nothing, will you please tell me, nothing offensive, nothing vague. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: False and wrong, and wrong and false. ) Wrongly understood? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19655	Don't, please, it really doesn't make sense. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, this is the best example of how the chairman acts and how he treats the MPs of the SRS. First of all, Mrs. Kolundjia, you behave in the manner of your party. When we press you with evidence, then you claim it's perfectly normal. It is normal to slander, it is normal to deceive citizens of Serbia, it is normal to abuse the position, it is normal to steal, it is normal to do everything, but on condition that you are a member of the DS. You are harshly deluding both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia. I will read to you what Velimir Ilic said, it was published in "NIN": "I have attacked some of the items set out in the bill, and I have also commented that there are more members of the Serbian government in the Assembly Hall than MPs in the ruling coalition. When Hope Kolundji heard that, I guess the truth hurt her, turned to me and said, "Eat..." ". You know the sequel because you said it. Therefore, Mrs. Kolundjia, just like the president of your party who has denied the truth, slandered, it's not an SRS lawsuit, it's my private lawsuit. Let him come out on the line and prove what he said or answer for the slander he has spoken. That's what every citizen is bound to do and what should apply to every citizen. This is the best example that some things don't apply when it comes to DS. I'm glad, Mrs. Slavic, that Boris was coming out on your line, just tell me, which line did he reach?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19656	Of course the citizens have come to terms with that line, I'm talking about it, and your associations are something that you absolutely can. So when he came out on the line, the citizens pleaded, that's something that's known to the public, and I'm just saying. Mrs. Hope Kolundji, replica. You know what you said. Here you go, Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19657	Every time I face simplicity and vulgarity, I simply withdraw, because those who do it show who they are, not who I am. So, if someone could have invented that I said something like that, they're really talking about whoever invented it. It's part of the dictionary of whoever could have made it up that I said it. It makes absolutely no sense for me to explain such things that in my dictionary, in addressing people, such words never existed, nor would they exist. It is pointless to explain to those who use such words, who think that, as they can say, others can. I don't expect any apology or justification, or any explanation that what someone has claimed is essentially incorrect. What I'm expecting is to stop saying that, because I'm really going to sue for something that I've never said and for something that someone thinks I'm like myself, not me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19658	Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19659	You know how, I'm very uncomfortable when someone keeps telling someone how he behaves, how he is someone who criticizes us all and warns us – a saint or a saint. All MP groups have responded. There's an extraordinary lot of MPs here. Only Mrs. Hope sat from the DS, in the first row, and everyone reacted because there were no MPs of the ruling coalition at the debate. I was talking, and we're all primitive, just certain gentlemen cultural, they should give us a lecture. Mrs. Kolundzija, I met you in Morovic, when you were making bahanalia, with the security of 300 police officers, with the then Deputy Prime Minister, not to list his name... Mr. Ilich, please. Mrs. Kolundzija, you, the saints here of the ruling coalition... (President: Don't talk to Mrs. Kolundji. Now I continue you, behold, we have witnesses, while Nasha Chanak beat you, not drunk, but a mortus drunk, on the piano, and while you spent loud nights until the morning, because we were baptized for what a lady could do... (President: Please, Mr. Ilich, you have no more words. Mrs. Nado Kolundji...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19660	Mrs. Kolundjia, she has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19661	So, what Mr. Ilic is willing to invent without blinking, I think the whole of Serbia knows and everyone would engage in denying what he is making up, would be engaged in a completely empty business. A man who can say that he forbids journalists to sexually assault sheep, for me, he's not the man I want to plow with anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19662	Mr. Vladan Batic. You didn't mention it. Just tell me the base of the call.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19663	Respect for Parliament's dignity, Article 100. I would like to appeal to you, Madam President, that we interrupt this kind of dialogue. I'd like to appeal to Mr. Velija Ilic, he's still a gentleman, there's no point in talking to a lady like that... (Velimir Ilic, from the place: It makes sense. She'll answer eventually. Don't let me say names. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19664	Please don't throw it away. Mr. Ilich, please. Okay, can we finish the dialogue? Please, please. Since none more than representatives, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, report to the floor, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sessions were prevented from attending Zeljko Tomic and Donka Banovic. We're moving on to the 64th item of the agenda - Proposal for a decision on the termination of the judge's duty I'm sorry, I thought you were done.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19665	Madam President, I'm not exactly an anesthesiologist, so you don't feel it, but okay. I just wanted one more detail, in order to preserve Parliament's dignity and the authority of a lady. Simply, the truth is, it is not true that Mrs. Kolundzija made any bahanalia in Morovic, because, at that time, in this Morovic, I was, myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19666	Thank you, Mr. Batic. People's MP Velimir Ilic is asking for a word. No more elements. Thank you. And thank you. You don't have a word. You have received a proposal for a decision from the Justice and Administration Committee. I remind you, according to Article 163(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 Group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the E-mail group – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak once, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to file for a word, with a number of MPs, if they have not already done so. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on this agenda point: MP Miroslav Petkovic, the DSS Parliamentary Group, and MP Zoran Krasic, the SRS Group of MPs. According to Article 163(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Bosko Ristic, president of the Committee, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19667	At the beginning of the debate on this point, the motion for a decision on the termination of the court's duty, I would give notice that it is the judges who cease the judge's office on a personal request and, second group, due to the completed working century. In this time approved by the SRS, given that it is the reasons, the first group is about the will of the individual, and in the second group – the force of the law, as it was the legal condition for the termination of the judicial function. I wouldn't stick around so long on the names of the candidates. It's about a total of five judges. I would use this time to remind the public in a principled debate, to remind people who work in courts, lawyers, citizens who are due tomorrow to address themselves for the protection of some right, or for the achievement of some interest that is controversial, i.e.. to inform about how far we have arrived with this reform of the judiciary, which has been spectacularly announced. I must remind the SPS MPs that, when the judicial system reform started in 2002, we represented the position that the announced reform was going the wrong way. In the meantime, they've changed their attitude; it's their right, I have no intention of criticizing. It's their autonomous right. The SRS hasn't changed its attitude. What we were talking about in 2002, we've been doing all these years. I must remind you that even when the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, we insisted on certain provisions which do not go deeper into some matter of the judicial system organisation, which should be regulated by appropriate law. We are now in a situation where these decisions today will be made by the majority of MPs who form the parliamentary majority, who support the government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm just drawing attention to you that the introduction to these decisions is calling for historical regulations. What does that mean? This means that the judicial system is jammed, still in some state since 2000, normatively, a vision of some new courts, which in nine years have not been made, not only physically, in terms of building material, but no decision of the Court of Appeal has yet been made to this day, as an example of your rapid orientation to go towards the EU and their standards. There are no decisions of the Court of Appeals, and for eight years we have heard about this reform of yours. We basically have one variant of the most rude lustration in the judiciary. She's based on the next one. If we wanted to choose someone to be a judge today, we wouldn't be able to do that, because regulations don't allow it. Let me remind you, almost a year in the National Assembly, no decision has been made on the choice of judges. I say -- a year, maybe more, two years, if not more. We're just making decisions where it's been determined that he's stopped a person's term of office, that he can no longer be a judge or a public prosecutor. The situation is identical, you know. This is how Batic's case is conducted – to be fired, to leave the court, in this particular case, by natural course of things, and no one comes to this place, because we do not have formed bodies that need to decide in accordance with the Constitution. Why do I say we don't? Because one of you is going to jump and say -- two very important authorities were elected a few months ago, one judicial, one prosecutor's office. I must draw your attention, there is already a great conflict of interest. You see, the proposer of this decision is, formally and legally, Bosko Ristic. He's not there right now, the real region in Nis, since he's committed -- if Pajtic could have an autonomous poktrajin as a member of the DS, which I, as a member of the DS, wouldn't have a Southeast region. You heard him a few days ago. He is a lawyer and chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly of Justice and, by the force of the Constitution and the law, he is a member of both of these bodies that decide almost everything, on all issues concerning courts and prosecutors. Lawyer. I'd understand if he broke up with a lawyer, left. However, no, he's active. A few days ago, we discussed what his contribution was, as a power of attorney, in resolving the dispute "Borovo-Borelli". This is the most obvious example of conflict of interest. Lawyers probably do most of their work in courts. Of course, if he as a lawyer can participate in a collegiate body that will decide who will be the judge and prosecutor, it is the best example of conflict of interest. That is why we do not need a change in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as many have now become addicted to the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because when they have no reason for a situation, they say – it is the Constitution. It's always the Constitution in this country, not those who enforce the Constitution and the law. The problem could have been solved by selecting another person, a layman for the judiciary, to be the chairman of the Justice Committee, and to be a member of these two bodies and to be involved in the job. But, no, the DS insists on Bosca Ristic. Everything Bosko Ristic did was bad. You remember the Constitutional Charter of the State Community – the state union is torn apart. Remember the many laws, regulations and decisions under consideration in the National Assembly, in 2001, thanks to him, in Nis, the President of the District Court was a pensioner. Thanks to this and this view of the judiciary, we had a situation in Valjev that the man, Malten, first became the president of the court, so the next day he became judge. Of course I do, but on the same day, he's chosen twice. Just to remind you, the SPS was criticizing it, because at the time it was a persecution of everything that looked like an SPS. I don't think the SPS can support this kind of reform of our judicial system, so before you remember how Batic lustrated the judges, they were returned to work. I have to, the public does, to indicate that this lustration has its continuity. Sometimes it's public, sometimes it's hidden. Not to mention the names of these people who have a judge's office stopped, but this is a way for the courts to be empty. The courts are empty, awaiting some next step in judicial reform, and praying to God what will happen to us and what we will get in the courts. It's long known that a large number of people who know the job, that he's an expert, and, you can say, and tradefully, he left the courts and the prosecution and went to law school. We're one of the few states where our lawyership is stronger than those who need to make decisions. In order not to bring up any unreal expectations now, I need to draw attention to you that 20 years ago, lawyers fought more in court for basic human rights and protected the interests of their clients. They were not of any god that was respected by judges, nor of respect. Today, the situation is completely different, when this materialistic view of life – only once you live, and you're worth as much money in your pocket, well, now lawyers have become a very important link to the implementation of justice in Serbia. So we have former judges as lawyers, who dictate from the attorney's office the verdicts to their interns who are now judges. Both human rights and protection of client interests have been lost. I have to say, that's not a general attitude. There's still those old law schools, and all I'm saying is not generalization. There are good examples of real, loyal lawyers fighting to preserve their profession at that level that was prescribed by that code, which is much older than our regulation that has been passed over the past nine years. That must be said, and there is a division of good and bad lawyers. Today it's divided into good and bad by results. You know, it used to be -- I have a good lawyer, he's barking at a light bulb in the courtroom, and today -- I have a lawyer, he doesn't have to talk, he's gonna end up with a judge and a prosecutor. That's how some very famous law offices like, say, one joint... Here, as the topic today was, for example, Boris Tadic's private lawsuit against Dragan Todorovic for the defamation. The nearby office is Nenad Konstantinovica, chairman of the Administrative Board. As you can see, it has nothing to do with the line and who was on the line. You also know that the four horizontal and one horizontal are the lines used in the table. We're not at a table party here, we're talking about our judiciary -- where it is, where it's stuck. Now I must inform the public that we have discussed some laws regarding the judiciary almost in the National Assembly. Of course, when he takes it into his own hands, it's always pro-European, the highest degree of democracy. Thank God, they remembered, so it's best, everyone has to support it; whoever doesn't support it, he's against Europe, against this, against that, not to talk about all these praises, like that, let's just say, it's perfectly normal to vote from Bodrum, that it's desirable to arrest 12,000 people overnight. The voting from Bodrum, we saw here a few days ago, on television, came back again, that ghost came out of the bottle again. It's all democracy. When DS says, during the campaign, "vote for us, we will hire 500,000 people", then make sure that 300,000 people lose their jobs. That's a fact. When DS says in some additional elections – "vote for us, since we are in power in the Republic, we will bring in big money to build your local community, your street", then know that you have been deceived. Why? The budget has recently been rebalanced, reducing from the Republika Srpska budget by 15 billion dinars to local self-government units. So, deception, lie, who knows which way, to trick voters, that's that line on the line. Of course, the lie only works when big media support appears, and yesterday you had the chance to hear that three top advisers Boris Tadic hold almost 80% of media houses under their control – Dragan Djilas, the Shaffer, and even this doctor Krstic, and that's the problem, which virtually looks nice, except he can't get his hand, something slips back. And the area of justice is also shown in a much better position than it is through the media. Without intending to replicate or point out anything, but just now Mr Batic has read three payroll lists for some who work in one court, so you have seen what they stand for, and he has asked a question that no one will and can answer – how does someone with these parades participate and help those who need to carry out the interests of justice in court? I must remind you that we do not yet have a complete Constitutional Court. We don't have many organs complete and I just get a chill when Boris Tadic proposes a candidate, because then I know it's a bad candidate and something bad is expected of him at the start. You've seen it yourself for the past 10-15 days, one television showcased what's going on in Belgrade with city building land. In each of these affairs, a lawyer was headed by an authority, led by a board of directors, or was represented by one, or several of those companies that were the subject of television interest. Then a principled question arises – can someone who deals with law enforcement be involved in any other activity, or does he perform a public function? The answer is that it cannot; there is no greater conflict of interest than a lawyer and a public function. This isn't a prosecution of lawyers, this is just one contribution to determine what it is incompatible. You have, say, Slobodan Beljanski, been on that board to solve conflicts of interest, and now he's working at this anti-corruption agency. When he was elected to the anti-corruption council in 2002, he resigned because there is no bigotry, but on this committee he accepted, because he has an appointment as a national MP. You see how widespread justice is with him. By the way, the University Law has been amended three times, and during that 14-year period, he somehow managed to master, doctorate at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad, thanks to Momcilo Grubač. And he's giving you some justice, he's giving moral lectures. Until a year and a half ago we talked here, and it was the subject of interest and the public, whether something is in accordance with the law or not, and now, thanks to this media domination of this yellow color, and what's legal is the subject of criticism in terms of whether it's moral or not. Then, as Velimir Ilic said, moral sermons are held by someone who does not meet any conditions to answer, let alone say something. That's the inversion. She's the most painful in the judiciary, and that's why I'm using these picturesque examples to make people in the judiciary understand what's going on, what's going to happen. You probably remember that a month ago in Strasbourg was the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and then these controlled media outlets informed our public about everything and everything. Micunovic's statements, etc., have been broadcast, but remains undetected, from the public's point of view, what they said about reforms financed by the Council of Europe or other institutions abroad. They don't share the opinion that you've promoted through the media to citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19668	I'm sorry, it's been 20 minutes, so you'll probably continue later. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19669	Thank you, Madam President. I really had to take this opportunity and the last sentence that Mr Krasic said, if you would allow me, given that I am a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and that, in front of the SRS Parliamentary Group, this parliament has chosen me. Mr Krasic, you are right when you say that you heard and saw the statements of our delegation's president Dragoljub Micunovic, but unfortunately you couldn't hear the words of those representatives of our Serbian delegation coming from the opposition, above all, my smallness. I must meet you, Madam President, and all of you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that I have been prevented from speaking to you, as MP and vice president of the National Assembly, in the Council of Europe. Namely, although I have applied neatly to talk about the report of Mr Gross's Monitoring Committee and Resolution on our country and new hints of what they are asking us to do and what they want us to do as a country in the coming period, our delegation's head, Dragoljub Micunovic, because before that he had insight into my English speech, he tended to insist that I be the last one on the list of all the participants reported on that agenda, which was a scandal and what was seen by colleagues, above all, from the Russian delegation, who could not believe, and also from other countries, that I was prevented from talking about the point concerning Serbia. The public works, because of the fact that, when it comes to the Monitoring report, I end up, Madam President, putting a special accent on the dungeon, for six and a half years, the president of Serbian Radicals, Professor Vojislav Seselj, the president of our delegation, has made it impossible for me, so, Mr Krasic, you couldn't hear the words on the other hand, to hear what I wanted to say on behalf of our party and on behalf of the Assembly, about disagreement with that report, which, in my opinion, is scandalous. To inform you more, it's my duty...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19670	Thank you. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19671	Madam President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected after these sets of judicial laws and the changes of some people who perform certain functions in the judiciary that, however, the situation will normalise, that we will have the judiciary that Serbia requires, that these will be the real reforms that have been discussed for years. However, all this revolves around party justice. Unfortunately, even today, after so many years, we have one party judiciary, where certain people, certain parties, who come to power, have fully represented all the main functions in the judiciary, in their legal teams connected, and it is impossible to break through that wall that is being created, so certain judicial authorities cannot do their job properly. Every honor to judges who consciously and securely perform their functions, but at higher levels and their decisions fall and they become powerless and surrender. I'd just like to remind you of a few very important things. Many laws are being broken, Parliament's decision is being broken and, worst of all, the Constitution is being broken, and no one is answering for it. We have one very interesting thing these days. Someone, we don't know who, owes this Serbia with three billion euros to the IMF, someone talks on behalf of Serbia, someone already splits that money into certain projects and we don't know anything about it. We have peripheral themes here. We are here discussing some laws that will bring us closer to the EU, and key things are passing. MPs are asked questions, but there are no answers – prosecutors do not respond. Is it possible that no one can answer one very important question – where is the money from the "Mobtel", which has been sold, and it has been said, a decision has been made by the Government to build from this money Corridor 10? Why was that money spent when a third operator was sold to a suspicious gentleman of suspicious origin, who was later financed by a political party? No one wants to answer those questions. There have been many questions here – is it true that Mr. Deputy Prime Minister bought a hotel in Sokobanja? No answer is given, no one responds. The D.A. doesn't care about that at all. How is it possible that this parliament has no role in deciding whether Serbia should be in charge, how much to be in charge, under what conditions should it be in charge? Is the contract signed with the IMF important for Serbia, not important? What's in that contract, what's it say? Everybody's doing solo here. We serve only as watchers, and the Messenger's majority, that he may nominate it, that he may make a decision, without any further question. I cannot understand that one race is now being made across Serbia and are competing for the funds that we have received these days under the accelerated procedure, because Kosovo will also enter the IMF. We gave it silently and therefore we were rewarded, but Serbia is in charge. How is it possible for the country to be in charge of Serbia with such a loan, of 3,000,000,000 euros, without going through Parliament? Does the National Bank of Serbia have anything to do with this parliament? When was the last time you saw the governor of the Jelasic National Bank file a report here, see what he's doing? We asked a hundred questions – what is the real price of the dinar compared to the euro? Who were those big exchanges sold to to stabilise the dinars? Who bought it and where's your dinars? What's up with them? Have certain sums of dinars been withdrawn or not? These are very important questions. They've been asked by the D.A., and he never responds to such questions. If we want to make a state administration that will take care of, if we want to return, as we have heard, credibility to Parliament, we will not do so by whether someone will speak or not, whether someone will sit in it and act, etc., whether someone will come to Parliament with a tie, or without a tie, where someone will sit, to line up the MPs when someone important comes and tell them what they can ask, what they can't and that it is considered to be some nice behavior, while we're talking about decision-making, about key decisions, no one asks us anything. We recently made some decisions in one government, here, as far as, specifically, Nisha, where that pipeline would enter. It is also a certain route of the pipeline, to follow the route of the highway, because it is completely free, because through land that is taken by expropriation, one and the other investments will be made. Then in the media, we hear that some guy named Zika, Pera, was somewhere, and he said, "Well, we're gonna change that. "Why are Serbia's spatial plans being violated? Everything I've talked about is in line with the Serbian state's spatial plan that brought this parliament. We change and do whatever we want. Individuals can do whatever they want. I remember, when the Ustasha building was sold into devastation, after the bombing, it was said that it required to collapse, to recycle on the ground, to remove everything, to store it in a safe place, and to build a brand-new facility there. However, the facility has been resold. Some high-ranking official of a ruling party has now done it, has taken a large amount of money – neither recycled it nor destroyed it. It is said to be dangerous waste, that it is radioactive, that it must be removed etc. And it takes a lot of money to do that. Here, we see there's a mouth shopping mall. The city and state of Serbia are said to have been damaged by 27m euros, and no one is responding. It is said that Luke "Belgrade" has damaged the state by 2.5 billion euros. A little something, what's that for us? No one's responding. Someone says there's gonna be an investigation, but it doesn't say when. The country's president comes out and says -- we're going to fight corruption hard, and I'm not running power in Belgrade. I don't know if anyone here in the O.R. has been influencing that power in Belgrade, which is being held by a particular party, here, for ten years?- I'm sorry. Where are those measures? Where are those measures, where is that justice system to react? The resolutions of the Assembly are being violated. Three times resolutions were made in parliament that EULEX could not enter Kosovo and that Ahtisaari's plan could not be respected, but all this was done at a small door. It was said, "Some six points are very important." Which are six dots, we have never heard, nor received, nor disputed. What happened to those six points? Ahtisaari's plan has been fully implemented. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been violated. Three resolutions of Parliament, this one of ours, the Serbian Parliament, have been violated -- no one is responsible. No one can ask anyone. Here everyone runs foreign policy in private – whoever they want. Here, this morning I'm listening to the Secretary of Defense, who apologized to the Vice President of America yesterday. They ask, "What was most interesting to you?" He says: "The most interesting thing was that he asked him – where did you get that badge, what does it mean, that you wear it on a lapel?" "and he also explained what his badge is wearing on the lapel. That's what's important about what the defence minister apologized for, in an official meeting, that cost millions of this country, with the vice president of America. I wanted to hear some serious questions were raised. However, the topic was – let's have a little chat and go to Pristina. But if we didn't just skip you, we'd stop by here a little bit, show you what the Force is, how you'd all stand still and not walk through the park all day, or walk down the street. You have to stand with dignity, because someone who is very important to this country has come. You'll all be waiting for what he tells you, and he'll be gone and he won't say anything important. Today they will say something down, and we hope to hear something, but is it in the interest of this Serbia, is it in line with the Constitution of this Serbia what is to be said today in Pristina? Is that in harmony with this congregation? Why is the Serbian Parliament serving if no one, whether on the outside or on the inside, is competent to respect? There's no answer for many of the violations being committed. Here is the main theme for all financial transactions – budget inspection. I've often said it was a party inspection, sent by a certain break. It is now being sent to municipalities that are opposition, which are not controlled by the DS, and they say, "If you don't let our people in power, we'll send you a budget inspection tomorrow, you'll have a chance not to go out for months." The budget inspection is formed by the finance ministry and the ruling party is fully controlled by finance, and who controls the finance ministry? Is there someone in charge of this assembly, who passed the budget law, to control the budget laws? Has anyone answered here what happened to the funds transferred to the Vojvodina Capital Fund? It's not? Are certain projects that were to be done and that had to be largely charged and what the funds were transferred for? Therefore, the budgetary inspection is doing its job as a certain ruling set up for it, because it is a party body and is therefore acting accordingly. We wanted to see why the judiciary, on whose orders, allowed certain procedures to become obsolete. Let's take the privatisation of Sartida, a series of privatisations that were controversial. The procedures are outdated, they are kept in the drawer until their obsolescence occurs, and when that happens, then all the ad act is placed and said – you know, there may have been some irregularities, but there has been no court proceedings. I remember when the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" was established. A minister has assumed a legal obligation to bring a public enterprise, when established, to zero. It must be granted initial capital and must be established in accordance with the law. I remember perfectly, then both the Assembly and the Government made a promise that the Roads Directorate, which was a budgetary institution and responsible and guaranteed that the budget funds would pay for the work done, in the establishment of a public enterprise, would cover the problem within a few months, up to 10.5 billion dinars. To this day, it's not settled. The director said, denied, no one calls him to account, no one asks him for any responsibility. Someone comes out here and says in an election campaign -- Serbian citizens, you'll all have 1,000 euros in action if we win. That's not gonna happen. You think someone's responsible for that? No one answers, no one has any obligation to this people. You can promise whatever you want, you can say whatever you want, and it doesn't matter at all. If someone said that on March 31st, a contract with Fiat will be concluded, and that is why certain funds are set in the budget, and to this day no one can say whether or not it is concluded, where the contract, that the funds have not entered into rebalancing if the contract, provided for by certain financial means, is never concluded, is not respected? Therefore, there is no responsibility. Furthermore, here is a very good topic – about lawyers. We had one big problem. A friend, a party, very important, holds a chain of law offices. His best friend from the Resistance was given to the State Secretary in the Justice Department. They cooperate, socialize, both privately and familyly and in every way possible, and there's no problem. Everyone says -- if you want to solve it, you get it, well, man, you know where the road is, you go to that office, and the problem is solved. Then the judges are just puppets to do some work, which, unfortunately, happens, but it's all about us so sorted. There is no conflict of interest anywhere, so the lawyer's office will get the role of keeping all the billboards in Serbia's territory on the road plot for free. How can someone on a roadside land hold billboards and sell their service every day without the Serbian Roads getting any single dinar of the work done there? Who puts such billboards in the territory of cities? Does he pay any obligations, who are these people, and what are the political options? I remember an example, which is very characteristic for me, when it was a dispute over unpaid work on the road to Feketiæ, which formerly worked by former Serbian President Milosevic. I remember the contractors sued and no one ever paid for it. The dispute ran, the lawyers bonded, the judiciary bonded, the republican lawyer connected with them, and everyone kept quiet. The dispute ended, the lawyer did his job, lawyers did his job, put their jobs down, took this poor country's 30m-euro total, for works worth, perhaps, severalm euros. That's a huge number everyone's sharing. Of course, we replaced after the republic's defence attorney, but he didn't even inform the government that the Republic of Serbia's budget would be blocked and that the money would be removed one day, he didn't say it was blocked and that the time was running for appeal. We didn't complain then, and in just one day, lawyers who also belonged to one political option, all of them ended up taking 30m euros, rubbing their hands, sharing that money, and no one was responsible for it. As it is possible now that some of the presidents of district courts, municipal courts, become powerful law offices, former ministers, too, become powerful law offices, and perform certain tasks, and by yesterday their subordinates become ministers, and all that is going around in a circle, and we say that the judiciary is independent, no one can influence it and everything that happens in the judiciary is happening in one way. I recently had one case, very incorrect. A judge from Novi Sad, ma'am, I don't remember the names, but I can look at it, she judged some dispute – that I once dumped, five or six years ago, a folder to a journalist there, and I was released, when the whole procedure was seen, I was released. However, he found the opportunity to sue me in Novi Sad, although the event took place in Belgrade, and my place of residence is Cacak. The trial was in Novi Sad. The judge, without sending a call, without any invitation to the hearing, reached a verdict of 100,000 euros and gave to the execution the day I was in surgery, when I was in the intensive care room after the surgery. My parents in the house, in an accident, came to the hospital and said – a court enforcer came. Please, 100,000 euros is being fined because he didn't show up in court, so much as he sued, and the court in Novi Sad ruled. Of course, it went down and went back to the original procedure, but that judge must have had a grip with a lawyer, and now he's going to be ashamed to judge in Novi Sad, and he knows he's not the competent judge who could lead that dispute, either at the place of residence or at the scene of the crime. It is for Serbia that such judges are still in court and are doing certain jobs. We hope that it will be better, that there will be elections soon and that all of this will be brought into order, as it is appropriate. We lost hours in this House... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... making decisions, but no one listens to us and no one respects our decisions. I've listed a series of violations here, and I hope that someone in the judiciary will react to some of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19672	Mr. Petkovic Miroslav has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19673	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, unfortunately, the Serbian Parliament only discusses the situation in our judiciary when decisions on the resolution of judges or prosecutors are on the agenda. It's been a long time since we've seen representatives of the Department of Justice answer any important questions. They used to argue that no proposings were authorized, sometimes other reasons. I remind you how long it has been since the adoption of the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary for as long as this House has chosen the first meeting of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. This could be a major problem, and Mr. Ristic, as chairman of the Justice Committee, as an authorised proposal for this item of the agenda and as a member, by function, of the High Council of the judiciary, is not present today to answer whether a meeting of this incomplete High Council of Justice has been held in the meantime, on which certain decisions have been taken, which discussed the number of courts and some documents on the basis of which the High Council of Justice will work. It's not good if it's done without a representative of a lawyer, without a representative of a law professor and, at that point, certainly without a representative of a municipal court, because they haven't been elected yet. If the law wanted to regulate differently, it would not have provided for representatives of law enforcement, professions and all courts, and municipal and district courts in Serbia, to be representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. It was a great torture in this assembly to elect representatives of the Bar Association, because you know for a fact that no agreement has been established on the fact that the Board of Attorneys has reached a decision and an initial proposal for members of the High Council of the Judiciary. In this House, laws have been passed, a set of judicial laws have been passed, but the problem is when will their application begin. We have pointed out many times so far when the re-election of judges in Serbia will take place, when a network of courts in Serbia will function, what about the appeals courts, when they will start working, when eventually, the composition of the Constitutional Court of Serbia will be completed. If anyone believes that the Constitutional Court of Serbia does not matter, it is his honor. I remind you that Mr. Slobodan Homen, State Secretary of Justice, Mr. Slobodan Homen, said on 18 February 2008, that the work of the appeals courts and the Supreme Court of Cassation began on 1 January 2009. It is now the end of May, and what has been done to make this system work on 1 January 2010, for when the application of these laws has been moved? I also remind you that this parliament, the ruling majority's MPs, voted for more than 100 courts to be abolished in Serbia. Now it's not clear to me how some people, in a local election campaign, have the nerve to go to their voters and say they've suspended their courts in these cities and these municipalities. We at the DSS have told you that these laws will come back on the agenda. We are sure that the application of these laws will not be possible until 1 January 2010. Obviously you've been deaf to all our objections, but there's time, in the next few months it'll show up, so we'll discuss all this again. Our courts have increased the number of cases. I don't know if there is any communication between the justice ministry and the president of Serbia, because they all complain that they have an increased number of cases and that they lack a certain number of judges, and it is certain that when this law is applied, if ever applied, there will be a reduction in the number of judges in Serbia. I think the least these people can expect, which is responsible for them, is to say what the number of judges is, how much will be reduced the number of holders of judicial functions, so that they can plan their jobs, or someone is really trying this way to get all those honest, honest and hardworking people, who have results in courts, exiles in law enforcement or some other professions. What was done in the meantime to improve the system of protection of judicial holders? There's a lot of talk about it, and we haven't heard anything about it being fixed. What about the information we requested here in Parliament and in the Committee on Justice, on the state of the justice system of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija? At the KIM area, Eulex takes over objects and processes from the Serbian judiciary. So, false courts of a false state about false laws judge citizens of Serbia. I think it is inadmissible and the least we could get from the justice minister is the answer to our question, but it is obvious that both the Ministry of Justice and this irresponsible government are looking indifferently at the integration of Serbian judges into the Kosovo judiciary, as if it were happening on another planet. I'm interested in what happened to the proceedings against the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Slobodan Homen and State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Mr. Ciric, because of the conflict of interest, which was launched and, as far as I remember, which ended, the decision was made? It is obvious that laws do not apply equally to all Serbian citizens, or individuals from the government are protected as white bears. Is the fight against corruption and crime, advocating for the rule of law, just an empty flossule or a philosophical category of you from the DS, or is it an obligation to respect the Constitution and the laws of this country consistently for all citizens, regardless of where they are or whether they are performing some significant state function? In my opinion, there can only be two reasons, either it's sudden dementia, or a great haughtiness that characterizes DS. I would ask the ministers in the government of Mr Cvetkovic to read again the oath they took before the people's electors in Parliament. They took the oath to the citizens of Serbia, not Boris Tadic, who apparently apologises and tolerates all their actions. I remind you of the following. The end of the school year is approaching, and the class elders will soon re-evaluate their ministers and officials on the DS Board of Directors. Some will surely go to long-term classes, some will repeat, but Serbian citizens no longer have time for bad students and repeaters. Madam President of the National Assembly, you said one amazing thing a while ago, this morning, during this debate. You seem to have forgotten that your new pet, Boris Tadic, won your candidate, Ivica Dacic, in the presidential elections, twice again, by your candidate, Mr Mr Mrkonjic. Unlike the people of the DS who are acting arrogantly, you seem to have a lot of dementia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19674	I don't want to comment on the diagnosis, you're not a doctor, otherwise it would be considered a Vitium artis, an expert error, if someone with qualities like me were declared a demented person, but good. Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word, since there are no more registered representatives, or president of parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19675	I'm going to pick up where I left off, and I stopped at the Council of Europe and a session of the Parliamentary Assembly that was at the end of last month. The public should know how you're assessed by the Council of Europe. For the sake of the public, just to remind you, Serbia was admitted to the Council of Europe in April 2003, during the country's state of emergency, and in that sense you entered the Ginis Book of Records, because it never happened to become a member of that institution, which is fighting for human rights in Europe, which has 47 Member States, to receive one state at a time when it has a state of emergency, and by definition, the state of emergency is evidence that human rights are being denied. But it was done at the request of a gentleman, or application, begging. Just to remind you that we have some history of these relations with the European Community and the Council of Europe. We couldn't be members of those two organizations before, because there were two problems. The first is that there was no multi-party system in our country, and the Socialist Union of Workers was told to look alike, but it wasn't, and the second problem was that there was a death penalty in our criminal law. Look at the wonders of the great, when we solved these two problems, and we did it in 1990, to be more precise, as far as the death penalty was concerned, in 1992, then you from the West and bombed us, and tore us apart, and to prove who they are, what they are, and what they are. Yesterday, this gentleman was so picturesquely expressing himself about members of the Serbian people for the past 20 years, so between that Chanko bill on the fight against anti-fascism and that friend of his who came yesterday, I see that Chanak was right, he suggested it in advance that Biden would not come, and he came symbolically, in a vehicle called "the beast 2". The vehicle “Beast 1” was hired yesterday in Congress and the Senate, where the President of the United States was even more blackened because he did not pass the concept of closing Guantanamo prison, where the rights of detained persons are also violated, for a shade weaker than the rights of our citizens in Cheveningen, but about that. To remind the public, it is normal in Western Europe that both politicians and citizens share in their opinion, so there are so-called "EU Parliamentary Assembly". Eurofanatics, which also belong to those with hepatitis B, with this type of jaundice, and there are Eurosceptics. It equally exists and, in a far larger room than this, it faces its opinions, with the goal of finding the right solution and a better path. We've had opportunities to find out in these nine years that only Eurofanatics can exist in this country, Eurosceptics can't. In this way, the DS has shown that it is not compatible with the multilateral system, because the democratic standard is only the interest of some individuals from the DS and those who act on the side are not members of the DS formally-legislatively, but it is very important to be close to the DS. I must draw your attention that you can protest in Western Europe. The French are protesting when the American president arrives. The Germans protest when the American president arrives, the Italians protest. The flag is on fire, the dolls are on fire, thus expressing their political attitude and opinion toward something that symbolizes the guest. We had a guest driving in car "Beast 2" yesterday, but he gave a message that he needed everything to reset. You had to do this reset operation, and it just clicked on the mouse, to forget Milica Rakic, to forget the bombing, to forget the destruction of the former SFRY, to forget the humiliation. Everything has to be forgotten. It's starting over. Someone's crying a little bit and they feel like they're new. It will remain questionable to our public whether the gentleman whom you gave a warm welcome was the man who returned to the scene of the crime, or came to repent. Just to remind you that it has to do with the judiciary what I'm saying, because in 2001, when you came to power, the first thing you did was ask the Attorney General, or the Supreme Court, to return to the retrial, and then the DA, by your order, had to give up the prosecution of those most responsible for the bombing of the SRJ. For the public's sake, I have to distract you, the bombing was without the Security Council's consent. In the reasons that so far, for these ten years, you've been quoted as to why the bombing was, you have 70 separate reasons. If necessary, each of them shall be removed in a given situation. The first reason was a humanitarian disaster, and then it was reportedly to remove the dictator, reminding the SPS that they said that the dictator was Slobodan Milosevic, and recently we had the opportunity to hear from your friend Javier Solana that the bombing was to force Serbia to accept European standards. So, as any opportunity arises, so is the appropriate justification, and then the media, under the control of these advisors of the President of the Republic, can do it nicely, paint, and even this topic can be in one of the "48 hours weddings", "I'm changing women", changing the state, changing the party, changing the party. You know for yourself, who is able to deceive God, he is able to deceive every single person. We have as many examples as you want. It's Serbia since the Democrats took her under their wing. I must warn and inform the public that there is some legality regarding procedures, measures, modes of work, and that legality tells us that we are obliged to call on something that is knowledge, and knowledge comes through experience and calling for some experience. Serbia was also in this situation between 2001 and 2003, and then there was political persecution, and it was a very difficult situation with the media. It started with one non-critical co-operation with The Hague tribunal. MP groups were expelled, all of them, during that period – one of the DOS members, the DSS, recently – the SRS, in order not to allegedly alert the public, or, as one of the representatives of G17 plus a few days ago, on a show – well, you know, you are the opposition, you are obliged to criticise us, and we are obliged to work. What you're doing is dangerous. It's dangerous. Just to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the former SFRY on 1.1.1991 had an external debt of $22 billion per budget, according to the second budget – $30 billion. Know that today, the Republic of Serbia, such a small, fildjan, owes 30 billion dollars. However, much of that amount is, they say, a commercial debt is not a government debt, but no matter how they interpret it, it is paid and will have to be paid from this territory. That's the result of your democratic authority. You've done something that's impossible. What the former SFRY was in charge of from 1946 to 1990, you took care of two of your five-year-olds. Now you say you're getting some three-billion-dollar loan, then there's going to be an even bigger amount, so grandkids, great-grandsons, can hardly get out of what's called debt slavery. He who is in slavery must listen to him who plays the Most High. It's supposed to be this yellow company. But let's see what the Council of Europe has said about the successful journey, because you're still in the SE observation phase. The Council of Europe didn't say you were reset, but you'll have to be on observation. Now you'll see what it says in that resolution. They say – in terms of European integration, reforms are recommended that allow citizens to feel the well-being of these integrations. It's a media aspect now. You should praise the EU, a special Euronet show, and now you've started a show where some shithead who needs kids, fifth, sixth, seventh grade, high schoolers, sings some songs in English, and how all the honey and milk from the EU goes. But what's reality? Reality isn't like that. What have we learned from the EU, and what good has it come to? The Fiat contract, it's gone. What's the other good? Schengen visa? Well, you've been talking about a white Schengen visa for nine years. Tadic had to warn you and say – don't beat people, aman, around the date, there's none of it. You've made a scandal about passports. How do you reset that? I am the opposition, and I must remind all citizens. It's dangerous when something takes DS into their own hands. It's drying up, people. The legality of DS authorities is a disaster -- a vote from Bodrum, an arrest, and at the time of privatisation, layoff. You used to have crisis headquarters. You've been trespassing. Thanks to crisis headquarters, all physical teachers became principals of primary schools. First, the Bulldozer of the Revolution. They've done well with the Assembly. What is the second benefit of the EU, which you should promote? The European Union kidnaps KIM, 22 countries recognise it. What is the benefit of a unilateral application of your famous agreement, whose one amendment caused an earthquake? You've abolished customs duties, and now, at dumping prices, goods come from abroad, and I don't know why that hook for that shadow cheese. Let the Minister of Trade, Minister of Agriculture, Minister for Regional Development and Economy address him. With five sentences of his pi-ar, a certain Pupko, everything is resolved. That sounds nice. What's the next benefit to be presented? You're the one who called Eulex. Last year you blocked the Resolution. You invited Eulex and now that Goran Bogdanovic is complaining about that Eulex, he says – so he's not looking at our interests at all. You brought back Oliver Ivanovic. Goran Bogdanovic was the first minister in the fake, transitional Kosovo government. What's he gonna listen to? He'd rather listen to Thaci than Tadic, even though it's the same, it comes down to the same thing. As I said a few months ago, Tadic will always say -- I will not sign independent Kosovo and we will never admit it. What does "beast 2" say to him from the car – we know, we're not looking for it, we're already done, who's asking you for your attitude? What can his attitude decide? He says - we broke diplomatic relations with Macedonia and Montenegro, stabbed us in the back. The one who stabbed him in the back, he's been walking around Belgrade for two days. What are you doing? Where are you taking this country? You can't do this with media manipulations. Sometimes it comes on the charge. Now let's reset. What do we reset? The only thing you got was a warrant, it's to reset. Let's move on, what the Council of Europe says, it's yours, Terry Davis and the company, though, Russell Johnston died, but it's yours, it's yours. He says, "... guaranteeing the rights of the opposition in relation to the functioning of Parliament." And they noticed that there was something wrong with expressing their opinion in the National Assembly and said that the president of the National Assembly should be characterized by tolerance, understanding, and some words that are not very merciful. The fact that Mrs. President has changed her attitude, so now she likes the man on the line, in the political sense of the word, that's another problem. I knew there'd be a flight change, I knew it. As soon as I'm serious, they put my Goc in. Here, to inform the people of Vojvodina, what you're experiencing with Bojan Pajtic, it's my fault. When he pushed the cards in 2003, I went behind him and threw those cards. If we had done something to remove the Democrats from the political scene then, what is now happening in Vojvodina wouldn't have happened. They also made "Development Bank", by literally stealing a bank, "Metals Bank," and it should be the bank of some future independent province. That's all you've done. Citizens, don't reset it, just remember. The better you remember, the less someone will fool you. He says -- the resolution welcomes the co-operation of the Council of Europe and the Serbian authorities with regard to judicial and prosecutorial reform, the fight against corruption, money laundering and terrorist financing. Apparently some laws have been passed, and they have to say hello, because their money makes some projects come true here. How can they say that the project has fallen, that everything has been radically done? Someone will ask them in Western Europe – what did you give money for? In order not to be responsible for where the money is, they have to fall. What they say in the following sentences -- authorities in Belgrade are calling for the adoption of the laws of courts, the status of judges and the High Council of Justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office, prosecutors and the State Council of Prosecutors, with guarantees that the judiciary and the Prosecutor's Office will be immune to political influences. Everything's been done since January, February. That didn't pass the test, you have to go to juvie. It is clear to them that you are doing something to gain political influence. This is a link to today's agenda point and to the one that follows, it finds the end of the judge's office, it does not choose a new one, it goes to some new rationalisation, transformation, which will not be effective at all, or the future appearance of the judiciary will not be transparent, nor will these important institutions be independent, some more independent, and especially what you put in the Strategy to be effective. Now you're gonna build an institute to train the judges. Who's gonna train them? God forbid they are trained by Homen, or Nenad Konstantinovic, or Snezana Malovic. Please don't talk about it. What will our future judiciary look like? How can you imagine the future justice system transforming DS? Whatever you've got in your hands, it's dried up, absolutely everything, everything's ruined. It doesn't exist anymore, which you handle. You also have this government phone session today, so we'll hear what happened on the phone. So, the judicial transformation operation was unsuccessful from the Council of Europe's point of view. Speaking of the judiciary, they say you should without delay adopt a European Convention against the limitation of time for the prosecution of the guilty of crimes against humanity and the Convention on Compensation for Victims of Violent Crimes. Then they warn you that 33 of the 47 members of the Council of Europe have so far recognised Kosovo and are opening this as a big topic, and Mr. Head of Delegation is looking forward to saying – a great success, we have now reached the postmonitoring stage. Someone might conclude that you're capable and willing to deceive these friends of yours from abroad, too. Forget it, it didn't work out for anyone. You see for yourself, who, on the political scene of Serbia, trusted the Americans -- no more, who acted on their orders -- is gone. You need to concentrate a little in time and space. This time you lead Serbia is bad. This time it's downhill, in the ambis, and it wouldn't be good if there wasn't a way out, or if he turned away, to get out of the ambis that you dragged us into. You can see for yourself that these beautiful stories of democracy, of human rights, only the media have some meaning, that someone is being deceived, that apparently the new government would not make bigger problems in the region. I have to give the citizens this information, too. All those from the West, who come to us, want to cross over Serbia's political scene, to have as many smaller parties as possible in some new government as possible, which, individually, mean nothing, and then, from time to time, a small coalition partner can make a big break. You know it's a small stone that knocks down a car, not a big one. That's how they control everything and control the crisis in this territory. They're interested in the crisis here. They're asking you to reset everything. That's what they were looking for in BiH. Two months ago, at a consultation, or NATO seminar in Sarajevo, they literally said this – the NATO Pact is grateful to Bosnia and Herzegovina...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19676	People's MP, please bring your presentations, based on Article 106, in connection with the agenda point. The time at your disposal is only your time, but it is your duty, with the right to use your time, to talk about the agenda point. If you accidentally interfered with the mind, it is the item of the agenda that is called – the termination of the court's duty. Either bring a seminar to the NATO Pact in connection with the end of the judge's duty, or I warn you that we are starting to listen to you within the rights of your time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19677	Mrs. Comic, if you'd just had a little bit more nerve to hear a few more sentences, I think you'd understand that between what I'm saying and what's today's agenda there's a big connection. If you'll excuse me, I'll make that effort to try and convince you of that. If I may. I probably can. Okay. Mrs. Comic, it's about the next one, and you weren't there this morning when I started the exposure. This decision has two parts. In the first part, one judge stops the judge's office on a personal request. So the man gets sick of something happening in the judiciary, and then he says, "I don't want to be a judge anymore, I want to get out of this court." I do not want to be the subject of the High Council of the Judiciary – Boška Ristić, Snezana Malovic, future Supreme Court President, excuse me, the Casation Court, and I accept, here, I do not want to be called in my place with the judge, but I am running. Now I find the reasons why a man runs away with his head no matter what. Of course I use the principle of lawfulness. The principle of lawlessness unquestionably indicates that the cause of all this lies in the DS, which thus exercises power. In the second group of judges, the court office ends, there are people who have met one condition, which is that they have completed the working century. To translate that, for the sake of our citizens, it's time for them to retire. Mrs. Komic, I'd like you to follow me, so you don't lose the connection. Don't reset. Let's move on. If a person has met the condition – a working century, it means that years of internship and years of life indicate that he has lost that specific working capacity for a judge's office. Mrs. Komic, you in the coalition also have pensioners who have lost their workforce, by law enforcement and by natural law. They've lost, they've earned the right to retire. Why does someone retire when it's a full-time job? Because the law and nature say that he can no longer do the job as well as is necessary for that function and for that job. However, I ask the question, can we only realize that someone has fulfilled this condition – a working century, or to see what he has done, how many items has he left behind, where are these things that he has not finished? A team before the end of office in the National Assembly is established in reverse? You know what reverse is? Backwards. In March, they met pension conditions in February, and were formally held as some judges. I know they didn't work. Mrs. Komic, the judges are very intelligent. Basically, there's a philosophy, not an imaginary number. That's why they took care of it. By 2001, we had a fantastic law. This did not come to the Assembly, but came to a conclusion, and it was not for the fate of someone who had met the conditions for retirement to be tied to the majority of the National Assembly, but was settled by law and automaticism. But you weren't this morning. This morning I explained how much the previous law was incomparably better than your concept of judicial reform. There's that connection. As far as Sarajevo is concerned, there is a big connection, Mrs. Comic. You were in 2001, when you came to power, all those who were legally sentenced freed of responsibility. Not you, specifically, not even Mr Batic, but someone ordered the Supreme Court to cancel, return to the trial, and then, at the retrial, the public prosecutor says - I am giving up prosecution. Do you know who was the subject of prosecution? Javier Solana, Tony Blair, and don't let me order you any further. It's not good when a man resets, but if you know one more thing, you can reset it, but it's all on the hard line. Everything stays on the computer. Serbian citizens must not reset what was in Serbia. They must not reset – like, "Pull dots, don't apply, don't apply, "Peace, peace, peace, nobody's guilty." No, no, 15% of your territory is being taken from you, Mrs. Comic. You need to raise your voice. You have to remind me. Some peoples have been reminded for 2,000 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19678	I warn you that you are obliged to talk about the agenda point, based on Article 106, it is now a warning. So either you bring in 15% of the territory and the agenda item called 'deceased of the judge', or I will be required, under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to apply the criminal measures. Please take this warning seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19679	Mrs. Comic, judges work in court, and when that court finds that the prosecutor has given up prosecution, that's what judges do. The judges are the subject of our interest. Whose pursuit has been stopped? The pursuit of those who ordered us to bomb ourselves, you know. The judge is in his business, you have introduced such provisions into the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under the obligation to apply the Constitution, laws and international standards. Who's doing this in our courts? Who are these people, are they educated? You can't stop us from informing the public what a court is, what judges have to do, how they do it, because that's what we should live on. You know, the future doesn't start today. Every man's future begins the day he's born. That's what some people say, the future starts today. He reset, well, the future today. No, when life comes, that's when the future begins. Don't forget that. Don't reset it. It's an important thing, Mrs. Comic. I know you're a believer. Don't cheat on God. If you're capable of cheating on God, then you'll cheat on people. I can't believe you're that kind of person. What will happen to the future choice of judges, and how will they end their role in the future? A large number of judges are likely to be defined on this step, as defined in point 1. of this decision. Not a man, out of personal dignity, to allow someone in the reelection to treat him as unprofessional, unquality, doesn't fit in, and we all know that there's a political resemblance behind it. We all know that political similarities are at stake and nothing else. What happens when it meets this condition -- a working century, and what little remains in the courts, will the secretaries of agricultural cooperatives, sons and daughters of some lawyers, or some close Democratic Party, take the most responsible positions in courts? What's the court gonna look like then? Can you imagine a court where the Democratic Party takes pictures of its personnel? Is it possible to achieve justice? We can talk about judges from another aspect. On the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because of three members of the constitution, primate, international law or domestic law remained disputed. Those who wrote the Constitution were divided, but the National Assembly gave answers. Primate is domestic law. Why? Well, you see how many contracts and international conventions we've ratified. And why are they ratified? To become an integral part of our legal order. There's no calling for anything imaginary that hasn't been passed through the National Assembly and that hasn't been adopted. How does the West apply its international standards? Mrs. Komic, you are probably informed that on February 17th 2003, Zoran Djindjic asked Carla del Ponte to take Vojislav Seselj to The Hague and not to return him. If you didn't find out, I'd recommend her book. It's her source, it's not mine, you know. You've always trusted her. It's basically a complete process that happens in The Hague. Mrs. Komic, from a few months ago, against Vojislav Seselj, our citizen, the procedure is under way and because of the book...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19680	National MP, bring in Mr Vojislav Seselj and the agenda item – Abortion of the judge's office on a personal request and by obtaining legal conditions. I remind you that you have already been warned that your right to use the time available to you as a parliamentary group implies and the obligation to speak on the agenda point, and I warn you that the violation of that obligation implies a statement of the measure. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19681	Mrs. Comic, candidate number 2nd of this decision is monitored every evening by the transfer of the trial to Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19682	People's MP, you can't get details out of the private lives of other people. This is a violation of Article 2. The Rules of Procedure, which refers to offensive expressions and details of the private life of other persons. Before we both get into both of these unsolicited situations to give you measures, last time I warn you to stick to the topic of the agenda. The item on the agenda is – The termination of the court's duty on a personal request and obtaining conditions for retirement.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19683	Mrs. Comic, I didn't bring anything out of this gentleman's private life, or who his wife is, or whether he's sick, whether he's healthy, whether he's cheering for "Star" or "Partizan". I didn't bring anything out of my private life, or how hard it is, or how much blood pressure it is, nothing. All I did was give the information that a man is following the trial professionally, because he wants to be educated. I don't know what kind of attitude you have to education. The transfer of trials is a form of control of how the Court works; then the general public controls whether the proceedings are conducted in accordance with the law or not, as judges perform their duties, how the defence works. What's private life about? I'm sorry, I don't understand physics, but this is, however, some terrain I know about. The public proceedings, well, that's the most important thing in every court case. Secret procedures are past, Mrs. Komic. I didn't bring anything personal about this man's life, absolutely nothing, I didn't say his name, I didn't say his last name, I didn't say his address, I didn't say his marital status, I didn't say what court he was working in, I didn't say anything. I am merely giving you a position – all the judges and all the prosecutors are following the trial of Vojislav Seselj because they want to be educated, to learn something.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19684	People's MP, you can't get details out of the private lives of other people. You can't know, or present as true information, whether "all the judges and all the prosecutors are watching the trial broadcasts." I remind you that the topic of the agenda – The termination of the judicial duty due to the requirements for the resolution and acquisition of the legal conditions for retirement and that you are obliged to, by using the right in time given to you as a parliamentary group, respect Article 106, to speak of the agenda. Since, after two warnings and one reminder of the provisions, you do not want to talk about the agenda, I give you my first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19685	Mrs. Komic, I'm sure you made a mistake, as did Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic 30 days ago. I was sitting in the fourth row, where the LDP doesn't sit.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19686	National MPs, members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I have no doubt that you understand them better than I, according to my formal education, can ever, clearly prescribe the conduct of each of the MPs and the conduct of the chairman. The statement of the warning measure is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, as are the obligations of the Members of Parliament, who apply all their other rights to the Rules of Procedure. Please either start talking about the topic which is the point of the agenda – Resolve the judge's duty by submitting a personal request and by obtaining conditions for retirement, or to continue both unpleasantly, in each parliament unpopular, expressing the measure of caution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19687	Mrs. Komic, I am fully aware that I cannot influence you to understand clearly what this is all about. It's an unsuccessful attempt, and I have no intention of doing so, but, may I express a protest that leaves someone with so many years' work experience in the judiciary as a good judge. As a man who raises his voice against human rights violations, I can talk about that fact and only talk about that fact, because if we go to the best judges, what are we going to have left? You know, a man who has 20 years and a few years of court staff, 30 or more, becomes an authority. He's respected by his colleagues, respected by lawyers, respected by prosecutors, respected by the parties. The proof of why he should be respected is that he shares his enthusiasm for what is called an international standard, and that's what Mr. Seselj is saying in the courtroom. We need real human rights fighters, not these imaginary ones – Natasa Kandić, Sonja Biserko and this system of NGOs. If this authority treats the judges this way, what will it be from our court? I need to take a critical look at this dimension of our judiciary, because that dimension does not exist in the Justice Reform Strategy. Just to remind you, this strategy has been adopted by another majority in the National Assembly and in that strategy, there is also something about respect for the dignity of anyone who performs his duties as judge. I'm talking in that context. The fact that the government wants media to represent something in one way does not prohibit normal people from critically looking at it, seeing it, and finding that the situation is completely different. We're going to have a little bit of people who are going to leave the court for a while because they can't take this. NGOs do not have any favors towards the SRS. The great critic of the Society of Judges was the SRS, but the Society of Judges has now come to our positions, now they are talking about these political influences on the judiciary. How do we free the court of politics, to personify it, how do we free the influence, say, of Bosko Ristic? Mrs. Komic, ask around to see what's going on in Nis and the surrounding area. In those elections conducted within the framework of courts and public prosecutors, within the framework of the two bodies prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the territory of that future Court of Appeal, Nis, etc. She was left without any candidate, because the criteria stated – there is Bosko Ristic, but he is an MP, a lawyer in conflict of interest. How can one lawyer decide who will be the judge and who won't be the judge? The decision to terminate the judicial post is the right place and a good reason to apologize for the situation in our judiciary and must not strictly, or precisely, or closely observe such a proposal for a decision. It must be widely observed, in a broader context, in order not to be exposed to one of these situations on a daily basis. At the personal request of people, they leave because they cannot stand, and we are obliged to give them protection and to relieve them of these pressures. I've located one type of pressure, one member in office in two state bodies, concerning courts and public prosecutors. I know he's a member of the DS, and you have to accept this kind of criticism. Much more important is what needs to be protected based on this criticism than what is being criticised. How is it possible that a man who is in a real conflict of interest is representing foreign companies before the court, while at the same time the chairman of the Justice Committee, a member of two bodies, and he should participate in a collegiate body that should cheer and dress who will be the judge and who will be the prosecutor? Mrs. Komic, you probably know that according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, when it comes to these things and this matter, solves the trainees, and when it comes to continuity, invariability, then one organ. Don't you think that's a little bit turned around? Why would the congregation here be in a position not to approve someone to be an intern? By definition, he's going to study. Why would the congregation hold someone back? What is most important, when he is to sit in court to judge, to represent independence and independence in the exercise of the judicial office, then someone else, Bosko Ristic, is asked because he is acting as chairman of the Justice Committee. Don't reset. A failed attempt with the Constitutional Charter, a failed attempt with things it does in the National Assembly. The law says everything he does is bad. Not that he doesn't know, but he's deliberately working badly, because there's some larger force that dictates something like that. The situation is identical with this lady Mr Batic says was his intern. By mixing cards, she became minister of justice. I've got to distract you, hard on us, hard on our judiciary if this reform is carried out by these people with this ideology and the way they started, and if that's not good, here, and those who give you money say it's not good. You have to change everything. There is no mechanism to prevent political influence on courts and on public prosecutors. So far there's been a situation, when I'm saying it and I'm saying it -- criticism, and after two months, the IMF finds it, then shut up. In the area of the judiciary, I say something, and you, criticism, after a month of that word, repeat these words abroad, you keep your mouth shut. I want to act preventive. It is our duty, as People's Messengers, to act preventively. You know that old Max, it's better to stop it than to treat it. If it is prevented, at least the cost of the drugs is reduced. How can this be cured after you? This is impossible to treat after you. If I didn't go to that medical termology, I could get a warning. It's very difficult. So I urge the DS to withdraw from this business. It's not a problem at all. No one will find that ugly, it will come with great enthusiasm from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You just pull yourself out of this job and say, "We don't know how to do it." When we do that, we screw it up and screw it up. We need a stable judiciary, free of all pressures and all influences. Just to remind you, the Constitutional Court is due to be completed soon, in 2006, the Constitution was adopted. Not to remind you of what the Constitutional Law has not done yet. Something that's done in a hurry, here it is, said it's bad, not good. Expressed political influence. If you go to court a little while, to the D.A.'s office, and you talk to these people, you'll see what kind of situation they're in. They say openly – we can count on re-election if we are close to DS. There has been a great political impact on our judiciary before, but in those political cases, and around the border around these things, there was no influence. Today, by means of a lawyer, which in another way must go to the OODS, or to a committee like what led us to Draganic in Belgrade, and to put pressure on the court, even when it comes to the border. Not to remind you of what was read in your former president's diary about some lawyers. In such conditions, people decide on these things. On a personal request, they're leaving the court. I appeal to judges and prosecutors not to do so anymore, to have little regard for what the court is, to take some responsibility and to remain at all costs, especially those with 25 years of working experience, who have just matured as judges, to remain to be tried by law and by the Constitution. If Bosko Ristic changes them during the re-election, let it remain recorded that they are not selected, not at personal request, and that this looks, about, at the announcement of the resignation that Dragan Djilas has almost said. Whoever announces resignations, don't ever vote for him. He shows instability, uncertainty. I ask the judges and prosecutors not to leave the judiciary on a personal request, to stay and fight for their profession. Then these two authorities in the re-election process don't have to choose them, but it will be recorded that they didn't kneel before this force. This force is only seemingly great, it's media big. Just to remind you, how can you be left with someone in the judiciary when you, through the media, come down against a judge because, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, he's made some kind of decision? Is the judge supposed to be worried if he's going to go out in the paper in a couple of days and get some stuff for him? I'm not generalizing this. And there are those who do it. Then, by name and last name, if you need to go through the authorities, not put them all in the same basket. Another thing that you use with judges and prosecutors – stick something together, and then it is later found that it is not, and then there is no depression. There's a man stuck to the label for life. How come he's denying it? With a Belgrade girl to throw out a torn pillow and collect feathers afterwards? It's always dangerous to make coalition governments, who are pushing, allegedly, their own personnel. It used to be pushed through the Committee and the National Assembly, and now through these two bodies – the Council of the Judiciary and the Greater Prosecutors. Feel those from abroad and say, you have to go back to juvie, all these laws to redecorate. Well, for nine years, we've been spinning a hundred laws. These laws are constantly changing and each one is European. You keep reset, reset, from the start. Not to tell you how much the law has changed about the status of judges and prosecutors, about the election, the termination of office, etc. Two months ago, you picked one lady with the worst results. Why are you doing this? What do you want to prove that way? So you can do anything? All those in power can do anything. It's limited, because nobody burned until dawn, you know that, I guess. Change that for a while. Turn around. The mood of the people changes. A little better control of the election, and, look, the mood of the people changes, and it wouldn't be good if they were to go after each other again and reset again, and we're starting from the beginning. The government passed, the second came, so now let's see what she did before, it's an election promise, etc. It's all putting pressure on the judges. You can imagine the pressure on the judges a few months ago when the Ministry did some analysis, some inspection, and you even put the presidents in the report because they spent money on coffee! What kind of impotence is that? Unintentional spending, the report says – spent on coffee, and you put one on – helped to buy medicines. How in that court do you keep working on it? In one judge, or president of the court, jurisdiction has been delegated to Piroth and Bosko Ristic has gone there to imprison the case because it is his home friend. What are we talking about? You forbid me to criticise the situation in the judiciary. Why do you forbid me? So the public doesn't know that? Well, the public already knows, that local public in Pirot and Nis knows. I have to warn the judges what's ahead of them, the way she's headed to the courts. Where are your buildings? Where are your computers? The English gave, the Americans gave computers for commercial courts, now you have insight, supposedly, of the subject walking. You'll make some institutes, educate them, create a mediation center. As soon as someone doesn't listen to you, they're on TV right now. While Gordana Mihajlovic, the president of the Second District Court, the municipal court, was well, now no longer answering, went to lawyers, now on "Luka" television, or, I don't know, "The mouth". What are the judges gonna do? He couldn't pass for the president of the court, but he could pass for the assistant minister of the judiciary. Well, if he couldn't work in court, how could he work at the Ministry and run the judiciary? It's DS, it's your policy, it's a policy of pressure, of threats, of sowing fear in Serbia. They sow fear by the system – they can do worse. Oh, it can't get any worse. It can't be worse than this condition that's with you. That's your lawfulness, that's your nature. You don't have ideology. I call upon the judges and prosecutors no longer to let any of them dare and go this way to make a personal request to be released from the office of the judge or the prosecutor. Give the possibility to Bosko Ristić and Snezani Malovic and the presidents of the DS municipal committees in your places not to choose you, which will mean that you have been expelled, that you remain recorded in history as judges who have been expelled by the DS. Especially those who have more than 25 years of work experience. Excuse me, please, if you have any evidence for anyone that he's been doing wicked things, start the procedure. No, you want an block, all of it, because it doesn't suit you, because it doesn't come to your office, knock on the door and say, "I have this subject, how do I decide it, what do you think?" What locks you've done in the judiciary for the past few years! It's tragic to read some judgments, some solutions, some decisions. My people, the unit of the local self-government of Black Treva, with six thousand inhabitants, and no status or neighborhood of New Belgrade, with 300 thousand voters. What bright mind could have come up with? You ask the judges to tolerate, support such things and to call on them. In the same situation, two district courts have made different decisions, and one and the other judges from that district court have been consulted in Vrnjačka Banja and have been told that this provision should be applied, but you are being forced. Why? Because you're a front. Remember, in 2001, it was a concept of democratic authority. An individual with all his virtues and weaknesses is a democratic authority and a crucible of democratic and international standards, but it cannot live in Serbia, so your employers abandoned the concept. Now it's a concept -- the less, the more, that it can be controlled. That's the problem. That's the problem with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We can handle it. We call on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to handle this with us. They can't solve with you. You misread their support and, when you get a vote, you twist it, you feel that you have the right to absolutely implement your wishes, so no wonder that someone has 16 agencies, this other counselor - seven, the third - one. I just get chilly when I read -- according to the Constitution, the President of the Republic can propose a candidate for something. I know right now it's a bad suggestion, and at first I know it's a bad suggestion. What do we do? We don't trust the SRS, but in two months we'll say the radicals were right. That's the law when it comes to radicals. The SRS - no, no, and after two months - is right, you were right. Wait, what are you talking about? It's too late. It's not too late for Serbia. Serbia has a perspective. Soon it will be much more obvious. (President: I ask the People's MPs not to earn or interfere with the speaker. ) Mrs. Komic, don't keep me from Srdjan Milivojevic. To me, he's the head ideologist of the DS. I'd be uncomfortable with Hope Kolundji throwing it at me, because we know what she's throwing at me. When Srdjan Milivojevic, an exponent of the American Embassy, does it, please don't, except it's inspiring, it's a big commercial for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19688	People's MPs, no one is to throw you away and no one is to interrupt you except the chairman, and to warn you of the respect of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure; I am here to protect your right to speak in peace. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19689	Mrs. Komic, I'm very fond of Srdjan Milivojevic. It's that he's in trouble with that animal law, but I like him very much. Mrs. Komic, without some big words, the situation in the judiciary is bad and know that it cannot be fixed, especially it will not be able to be fixed, I must tell you, do not be offended, with Bosca Ristic and Snezana Malovic. I have nothing against them personally, to tell you the truth. Bosko Ristic was, even, my defender in one procedure where the SPS was stalking me for posters; your coalition partner was stalking me for posters. Crying - a means of expressing your opinion. There was a mustache on those posters, and now it's gone, it's my college buddy. Bosko Ristic helped me, defended me as a witness. I have nothing against Bosko Ristic, Snezana Malovic even less, but the ideological setting of your concept is wrong. Get away from that job, you don't know how to do that job. The state is a serious thing, it can't mic-mic, "peace, peace, peace, nobody's guilty," it can't reset. Remember, he can't reset. They've been living 78 days over this country. Don't reset. Remember, remember one thing, you defiled that monument on the mouth, that torch, you fixed it. In a month you'll be moving the remains of the great Aleya and you'll have to apologize. Thank you, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19690	The SRS parliamentary group is available for another eight minutes. The word has the People's MP Miroslav Markicevic, in line with those declared for the word, but not present. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word and before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go. I ask the People's Messengers not to earn and not to come out of the framework of respect for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which involve the divided duties of him who presides and all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19691	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am once again expressing my dissatisfaction that there is very little talk in this House about major problems in the Serbian judiciary. Today, we needed a representative, i.e. the chairman of the Justice Committee, to explain these proposals and to answer specific questions raised by the MPs and members of the Committee on Justice. We recently adopted a set of judicial laws and issued a series of objections, which are, above all, related to the application of these laws and the possibility of the system in Serbia operating from 1 January 2010. I remind you that, as the DSS Parliamentary Group, we have submitted a number of amendments to the Supreme Council of the judiciary and that seven key amendments have been accepted, on the basis of which this law has been significantly corrected, but it is unacceptable to wait so long for this body to be formed, or a body that should elect all judges in the Republic of Serbia. Also, I would like to point out that it is not normal and it is certain that there is a conflict of interest when the chairman of the Justice Committee is a national MP, who is a member of the VSS, and, in private, professionally performs his role as defender in the legal profession. Imagine the situation – when a judge knows that his re-election is decided by a lawyer who acts with him in the case. We think it's abnormal for the same man to perform four functions. As a member of the VSS, not only participates in the election of judges, but also in the election of prosecutors, so that his conduct in Serbia's courts can be challenged in many ways. We're telling you on time. That is also said in the principle debate over a set of judicial laws. I also believe that the minister of justice, as a representative of the executive government, should not have been a member of the VSS, but should have entrusted the job, above all, to judges, prosecutors, lawyers and professors of law schools. As for the most painful subject affecting the judges - the reelection, that is, the first election of new judges, we believe that there will be great difficulties. The basis is to determine first the number of judges to be elected in the Republic of Serbia, because if these new laws are applied, if more than 100 courts in the Republic of Serbia are to be abolished as provided for by the law, many of them will be out of work and should go into the whole procedure in time. It is in our interest for the Serbian judiciary to be independent and to do the job as the law provides. This is not a suspicion of the honesty, ability and honesty of individual judges, but of opening up the possibility for numerous manipulations – that only the most similar are re-elected, i.e. the first time elected judges, given that the VSS is under great pressure, on the one hand, the executive authorities, and, on the other hand, the legislative authorities, and therefore, there is also a party pressure in that body that needs to do a very responsible job. We in this congregation, apart from some exceptions, have been practically, since November 2005, not seriously engaged in the choice of holders of judicial functions. Most of the time, they were discharges and terminations, because people retired or went on a personal request. The fact is that there is a need for a large number of judges and the staff refreshments of the courts are really necessary. The situation in our judiciary is, according to many objective estimates, and people who work in the judiciary, and those who follow their work, alarming. The basic condition to correct the bad situation is to create a good, sustainable and functional system, in which both legislative and judicial and executive powers would take part. Instead, the Ministry of Justice is proposing, and the Assembly is adopting, law-broken laws, which can already be seen, except that the names and last names of people to be elected by Parliament are not listed, and I think the biggest problem is that they will be absolutely inconclusive in practice. I have to express my suspicion that by the end of this year, the buildings of the appeals courts will be equipped and that, in all those places where the courts have been abolished, abandoned judicial units will be possible, i.e. objects, techniques, and people who are employed, will be transported to some different cities. When the law was passed, our objections also referred to many procedures that mean the implementation of, above all, the investigation process, which will be impossible to implement in certain parts of Serbia. In our opinion, it is not normal for cities such as Prijepolje to travel to Belgrade for appeal and to skip, for example, Kragujevac. We had an idea and we talked about it with the minister of justice -- that the number of appeals courts in Serbia is increasing, because we think it is not enough for only four appeals courts to function. A specific example is the city I come from, it's Chachak. For example, the Moravic district includes Cačak, Gornji Milanovac, Ivanjica and Lucana, so Ivanjica, as far as the police are concerned, is related to Cačak, and as far as the judiciary is concerned, for Užice, so that all cases from the Municipal Court, instead of going to the center of the district, go to Užice, means, in another region. In this way, the possibility of citizens already coming to the center of the county and finishing some jobs is complicated, too, as far as their protection is concerned in the court itself. The most important thing for us is that there are no well-intentioned suggestions, both by the profession and by the messengers of the people. You know for a fact that Serbia's Society of Judges has raised a number of objections to these laws, that transitional and final provisions in certain laws have also been seriously criticised by the Venice Commission, but Mrs Malovic only pointed out in the debate that the Venice Commission has praised certain provisions, while she has skipped all those objections. We talked about it, but it didn't burn again. Some of the things and practices that existed in the former work of the Ministry of Justice must change. The fact is, it looks like it's in vain and we're going to face one big problem. There are a number of reasons why the situation in the judiciary is like this. In addition to the bad laws, which do not open any hope that something will change for the better, it is unacceptable for the media to insult, demean, that individual courts, because they are located in smaller environments, as people in the small community know one another, are accused of both nepotism and association with lawyers, and that there is a line between police, lawyers and justice. That would mean that courts should work and operate only in large centres, in millions of cities, such as in Serbia, unfortunately, there is not much. We believe that this is indeed an incorrect relationship and individual MPs, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Justice, who presented this to us as an argument to abolish a certain number of courts. We think that the availability of justice is a principle that must apply in Serbia, and based on the network of courts, as provided for by these laws, it will not be possible to implement it. It is also worrying that 78% of citizens do not trust our courts. I recently had the opportunity to read that just in the municipality of Ivanica, in court, the case lasted for decades and finally the party in the process managed to exercise its right and charge compensation from the state for all this has been done. Imagine 25 years of first-degree procedure! This cannot be done by justice or by bad laws, or by some procedural justifications, but there is indeed an evil intention of these people. The Serbian judiciary needs to be cleared, so that we do not come to a position that because of a few people who do not do their job properly, which has been proven to have engaged in some illegal and dishonest activities, which should be stamped, carried out in front of justice, to answer for all that they have done, the whole judiciary, hundreds and hundreds of people who are responsible for doing their job, we put them in the same basket. Citizens must have their trust back in courts. It must return to respect for these judges, but I pointed out that in my previous presentation. We have to provide these people not only with objects to work in, the technique they will work in, because now it seems to be the greatest achievement when a single court in Serbia gets a dozen computers and they are networked, because then that's why one of the state's secretaries appears to appear, or the minister himself, to open up a new department, and that in the field of what is very important for their independent and professional work – to protect these people in the right way, it is not mentioned that we have recently and tragic situations in which either judges or members of their families have been killed, no movement has been made from the Ministry of Justice. I remind you that Mr. Petrovic, when he was minister of justice, said a system of protection for judicial officials would be restored. We really all believed that and I think, first of all, that Mrs. Malovic's associate's task in this field is to do something, because it's not pleasant to read that a judge's house or his car has been bombed, that the perpetrators can act like that, because it creates fear in people who need to do their job responsibly for their lives and for their family. It's not enough that the secretary of state told us that we don't know how many months they haven't had any intel on a bomb being planted in the courthouse building. You know how it just changes, if someone wants to do it. But people who have been caught doing such a thing should be brought to justice and sanctioned as strictly as possible, so that we can get in a position not to interrupt individual trials, that people who have come to carry out someone's right, whether it's an authority or a filing of certain submissions, can do so right, not that they wait for hours for the special and intervention units of the MUP to check the facilities and therefore be delayed trials, because the biggest problem is that some trials last for years. I think there's a big space in that field to change something. It is also extremely important that we get the information as soon as possible so that people can plan on time and carry out everything the law predicts about re-election of judges, about the number of holders of judicial functions. I don't know what was done with the State's Major Prosecutors, whether the candidates, all who were proposed, have finally passed the necessary procedure; these are people who are also responsible for doing their job. One of the candidates, I personally know him, since he's a respected lawyer from my town, he asked me what the reason was and why it didn't happen. If you're proposing some people, then don't let them come into a position to be shot without anyone pressing a button for them at the vote, or all of these proposals are returned. This must be seriously prepared with both the Bar and the Law Schools. We pointed out, when there was a principle debate over the adoption of this set of judicial laws, that this would happen, but obviously there was no understanding. We are sure that this will not lead to the realization of everything that is foreseen, so that in some new procedure by the end of the year, when the amendments and amendments to the applicable laws come to pass, we will correct it through the amendments and then they will understand us in the right way. What has to be said, and the proposer of this decision is not here today, is what we are potential today, and this is an examination and a detailed report on the state of the judicial authorities and the work of the Serbian judiciary in the area of KIM. We don't need to remind you that Eulex there has taken over all the intelligence. If someone believes it is normal for citizens of Serbia living in the southern Serbian province to be tried under some false laws of a non-existent state, it is shameful and unacceptable. We have left sufficient time for the Justice Minister to give us a report, since more than a month has passed since that committee we requested to maintain. (President: National MP, the time available to you as an authorised representative has been used. I'm done. We didn't get that report, so there are still a lot of questions that need to be opened, but it takes dialogue, it takes talking, it's not enough to publish, I'll use the time of the parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19692	People's MP, you can't use the time of the MP's group for two reasons. First, because you received a word after I said that there were no word reports on the lists of MPs, which means that the course and part of the debate that was discussed on the basis of the time available to the parliamentary group has passed, and now you have received the word as an authorised representative, in the time of 14 minutes, how much time you have left for the second address. They're Parliament rules. We can publicly say that you and I are in favour of breaking the Rules of Procedure, but you don't have an associate in me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19693	Far from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19694	National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19695	Mrs. Komic, I think that Mr. Petkovic, vice-president of the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly, has opened a principle topic that has in some way been on this agenda point. I think you should also allow a debate about this situation in the judiciary, because this broader aspect is necessary to see the concrete things that are happening. He also called for some views of the Venice Commission and others who observe what is happening to our judiciary. I have to distract you, one dimension is conversations, another dimension is what they see, the third dimension is what they're looking for, and the fourth dimension is what we find out as the public about all of it. I have to tell you that those four things don't match at all, they're four separate things, completely different. It is shown in the people – the cabbage is watching, the meat is being drawn. When talking to these people from abroad, since I have these transcripts, I need to inform you that this is incompetent, unprofessional. Talk about the system – tell us what we need to do, what project you could finance, what means, etc. We need to change those representatives who are discussing the process of reforming something. The second dimension is what they're looking for. I need to draw attention to the fact that in a few things they represent something that is an international standard. I don't know if you know it, but the UN has brought its criteria for independence and independence to the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19696	Two minutes, MP, because you did not say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured, unless, in the first part of your explanation, your invitation to allow MP Miroslav Petkovic to violate the Rules of Procedure does not mean solidarity with that request.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19697	Mrs. Comic, then there's absolutely a misunderstanding between us. I've been informed I have eight minutes. I'm sorry if I was wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19698	People's MP, I informed you that you had eight minutes before I gave my word to MP Miroslav Markevic, who was not in the hall, and after that I closed that part of the session, by reading the text that there were no more statements on the lists of MPs, and before the conclusion, the right to speak in that part of the session was given to presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups who did not exercise their right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19699	So I have no right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19700	I assume it's a misunderstanding and you haven't been closely following the course of the session. Is there anyone else who hasn't used his membership rights in 93 wants a word? (No) I am concluding a single search on the motion for a decision to suspend the court's duty. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We move to the 65th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision to suspend the duties of the Deputy Prosecutor of the Public Prosecutor You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the Committee on Justice and Administration. I remind you, according to Article 163(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. The time available to the parliamentary groups is as follows: MEP Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; G17 parliamentary group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; DSS parliamentary group - Vojislav Kostunica – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; SPS - JS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Send group minority – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak once, up to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on these agenda points: MP Zoran Nikolic, Parliament group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, MP Vjerica Radeta, SRS Group of MPs. According to Article 163(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the motion for a decision. Before I continue to give my word, let me inform you that today, on the basis of Article 85(5), we will be working after 18 hours to discuss the agenda point that will be discussed at that time. Also, let me inform you that RTS Secretary General Stanislav Veljkovic has sent a notice to the Secretary of the Assembly, Mr Veljak Odalovic, that today, on Thursday, 21 May 2009, from 17.55 p.m. due to earlier programming obligations – the transfer of the quarterfinal football match of Serbia's Red Star - Partizan, will not be able to follow the meeting of the Serbian Parliament directly, but rather in a delayed transfer. For a word, on the basis of Article 100, a national MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, registered in the electronic system. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19701	Thank you. Madam Chairman, it is not unexpected, but you are really putting us in a position to be surprised at every time by your way of interpreting the Rules of Procedure and setting up someone only known to you in the work of this Parliament, because you have moved to the 2nd point of the agenda, in violation of at least a few members of the Rules of Procedure. Since you're probably going to ask me what members are, and it's my duty to tell you, first of all, in Article 85, which tells you how much we do, from what time to what time, that we need a one-hour break, which you can determine when you want, but obviously you don't have to, that we're only doing extremely after 18 hours, that we're only doing extremely Mondays and Fridays, but it looks like it's become all the rule, and it's just what you're saying. Secondly, you took eight minutes for Mr. Krasic to discuss as an authorised representative of our parliamentary group without having the right to do so. You can now look at the stenogram, you were obliged to ask if any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups were answering for a word. Mr Krasic took over those eight minutes, answered the word to speak, and you took his word, interpreting that he had reported to the Rules of Procedure. There you have harshly broken the Businessman, but let it remain on your mind, and it is obvious that work in Parliament will mainly be based on when any basketball, football game happens...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19702	You've used your time to report on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. You did not give an explanation for the injury of article 85 because you stated in your explanation that a one-hour break should take place during the day. Of course, it will be determined, when the debate on the item of the agenda is completed, which will be opened – the termination of the deputy prosecutor's office. With insight into the stenogram, you will see that after the presentation was completed, by his will, MP Zoran Krasic received notice from me that he has eight minutes to go. There were no more speakers on the list. I called National MP Miroslav Markevic, who was not in the O.R. National MP Zoran Krasic was free to register either in the electronic system or give me a sign that he wanted a word and would get it. After we finished that part of the session, I moved on to the proposal and asked if they wanted the word from the authorised representatives or the president of the parliamentary groups. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please also follow your own obligations when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19703	Thank you. I'm calling in an article. 104 and 85. This is one human request. I think you're bound to tell us when you're going to take a break. We came here at ten o'clock. There was no quorum, but it's not our responsibility. He started work at 11 o'clock, and now it's 2:30. We need to know, to plan, we need to get that kind of information to plan our time. I think by now, by the way, we've had a break between 14 and 15 hours. You've decided to start this point and that's fine, but I think it's time to take a break, because, as you said yourself, only the SRS has 108 minutes to discuss this point, so if we take that right to use, we won't have a break until 5:00. So if you've dignified us and told us that we're going to have extended work, that we're going to work after 18 hours, then the logic is that you give us information about some previous time, or when we're going to have a break. There are now ten MPs in the ruling coalition. They're probably at lunch, or they had other obligations, but they're, anyway, on break, so it would be really nice of you, as president, to say when you're gonna take that break, so we can keep working. Everything else is, believe me, a violation of the spirit of this Rules of Procedure and of an atmosphere that goes in a direction that is neither democratic nor tolerated.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19704	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, nor did you explain it. If you had listened carefully to the explanation, which I am obliged to, the MP who pointed out the desire to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you would have heard that I said that the break would be determined after the debate on the point that is open. When you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, please talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, everything else is abuse of law. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19705	Madam Chairman, you are indeed demonstrating force, but it would be good if the camera showed this room and counted the MPs sitting here, who apparently intend to work, to take part in this debate. You abuse us more or less, and you do it on purpose. Every employee in Serbia has at least half an hour's break during eight hours' working hours, and you're harassing us here that 12 hours' work and we can't afford a half-hour's break. We're not asking you to take an hour off, because your colleagues went to sleep and shower, we're looking for half an hour, to get some rest and get ready for further work. Since you have a deputy, you replace each other, you can work day and night, if you want, but we're no one to replace, the MPs here are irreplaceable, everyone is responsible for himself and does his job. If you continue to do so, I won't be surprised if the bombers come before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19706	People's MPs, you have misused the right to a word and I warn you not to do so. It is your duty, when you receive a word under Rule 100, to state what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure and which is a member of the Rules of Procedure, everything else is an abuse of rights. The assembly today has been working since 11:15 p.m., now it's 14.35 p.m., it's three hours and 20 minutes, and it's a time in which every average worker who performs any work can keep his concentration and work. The break will be set when we complete the debate on the agenda item that is open. The People's Messenger of Gordana Pop-Lazic casts a warning. It is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and after warning that you do not abuse your rights. Thank you. National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19707	Article 27. In this finding of yours, this is a demonstration of force and I think that, at the very least, those who watch the transmission can judge it themselves, but you have one logical mistake in what you said. You said there'd be a break after this debate was over. This debate can take 18 hours. So when are you gonna take a break? You cannot assume that representatives of other parties will not return, as the ruling majority, from lunch, and that other opposition parties will not come here and participate in the debate. So, you just said we'd have a break once we've finished this point. If, say, at 1805 this point is still not finished, and before that, you said we'd be working long, until the end of the agenda point, then we won't even have a break. You owe it to the Rules of Procedure, Article 85, to take a break and ask you, explain to me when we're going to have this break, theoretically, and for God's sake, and practically? This debate will last until 18.05, or 18.15 hours, when we will, in fact, conclude a working day without a break. It will be obvious, materially, that you will break the Rules of Procedure. Personally, I'm rooting for you who never admit to breaking the Rules of Procedure, I guess that's when it'll be clear, at 18.05 or 18.15, that you broke it, because we won't have a break. Now, all the way to the side, it's normal to give an hour's break, so let's keep working on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19708	The same Article 27, which you did not point out to have been violated, I used it to inform myself by parliamentary groups who are participating in the work who will participate in the work. When the time of the parliamentary groups participating in the work is collected, you will have a break before it is 18 hours. Don't worry about anything. National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19709	Mrs. Komic, I'm reporting from article 31. Rules of Procedure. I tried, as one of the vice presidents of the National Assembly, to ask you most kindly, while the microphones were on, when there would be a time for a break... (Microphone turned off)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19710	People's MPs, you can't advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure that's already been said. It's the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Does the proposing representative, MP Bosko Ristic, want a word? Is it not the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, who want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Verica Radeta, the authorised representative of the SRS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia who are monitoring the work of this Parliament, it is obvious in what conditions the opposition is under, what force is being applied, instead of the Rules of Procedure, in the work of this Parliament. I don't want to calculate the time and talk about when there might be a break, but given the times that MP groups have reported wanting to participate in this item's agenda, I've calculated that the break should be somewhere around 17.15 to 18.15. I don't know how you can oblige us to do what we're gonna do after 18 hours, unless we move on to the next item of the agenda, and we won't do it until then. That's quite certain, unless you take away our word. How you started today, and that's possible. Mrs. Komic, you are working on this synopsis that you have in front of you, and so it was during the previous agenda. I don't know who you're distracting, I'm sorry for the expression, it may not be nice, but I don't have the other one, when you ask if a representative, Mr. Bosko Ristic, wants a word, when we all see that Bosko Ristic is not in this room at all today. Where do you expect him to answer the word? You, Mrs. Komic, were obliged to say – Mr. Bosko Ristic, the authorised representative, is not here today, and then we do not have the conditions to discuss this item of the agenda, because there is no authorised representative present. Since we Serbian radicals never do anything in vain, we have today, according to the Rules of Procedure, and we have had this business right, tried to draw attention to the fact that there are no conditions to discuss neither this item of the agenda nor the one that was just finished, because we do not have an authorised promoter here. We did not want to draw attention to the Rules of Procedure, for the reason why yesterday, when, for the item of the agenda under discussion, the authorised representative was Mrs Nada Kolundzija, when we intervened because she was not in the room when it came to that point, because she was the authorised representative on behalf of the 121 MPs who proposed it, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic said that it was true that Mrs Kolundzija was not in the hall, but there is one number, a dozen MPs, of those 121 who signed the proposal, and those present MPs listen to the MPs who spoke about that item on the agenda. However, she left out something very important. These MPs, apart from Hope Kolundzija, were unable to participate in the debate, since they did not register neatly, as the MPs involved in the work of this parliament do. For that reason, we didn't draw your attention that there are no conditions for working on this point. I don't insist on it now. We will make our views, our arguments. You order a violation of the Rules of Procedure, one by one. All of this remains recorded, all of it is seen by the citizens and believe that they laugh when they hear each and every time you say it reverently and sharply – there is no harm to the Rules of Procedure. They say – is Mrs. Comic the only one who can assess whether or not there are injuries to the Rules of Procedure? Of course, as much as you abuse it and do not use your right, Mrs. Komic, as a graduate lawyer, I must tell you that regulations and rights exist to be used, not to be abused. You show that you are strong, but when the day comes for the vote and the quorum, then something else happens. I'll be able to, using this agenda point, of course, I won't let you judge that I've broken the Rules of Procedure, because I won't break it, be sure to say what I have on that subject. Right now, we are talking about a motion for a decision to suspend the Deputy Prosecutor's office. The proposal was signed by Bosko Ristic and was designated as the representative of the Committee's proposal. This motion for a decision on the termination of the prosecutor's office has an explanation and I will read it. First of all, the motion for a decision: "It is proposed that Djordju Mahovac, deputy district attorney in Sremska Mitrovica, ceases the office of public prosecutor on a personal request, dated 12 April 2009. "Article 78 states in the light of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is scheduled to decide on the termination of the office of the public prosecutor and deputy. ''In accordance with Article 77. The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office is proposed to suspend office at the personal request of Djordjo Mahovac, deputy district attorney in Sremska Mitrovica, on 12 April 2009. In accordance with Article 48(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee established a proposal for a decision to suspend the prosecutor's office. ''As a reason for the decision to be taken by emergency procedure, it is said to be Article 164. The Rules of Procedure provide that acts may be adopted following an urgent procedure, which could have a adverse impact on the work of the authorities and organisations. The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office laid down the moment of termination of the prosecutor's office, when it ceases because of the completion of the working century or on a personal request. ''The National Assembly's decision to determine the termination of functions in that sense has only a declarative character. In view of the fact that the decision finds the termination of the duty to the public prosecutor who, under the law, has already ceased his duty, it is necessary, by making an urgent decision, to bring the legal situation into line with the fact. The publication of a decision to suspend the duties of the deputy public prosecutor shall ensure the legal certainty of all participants in court proceedings. "Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected judges and prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia, I read from word to word the reasoning of this proposal. Is there one single word here that speaks to the MPs, Parliament of Serbia, which is why Mr. George Mahovac, deputy district attorney in Sremska Mitrovica, is requesting that his prosecutorial office be suspended? These proposals appear mainly, or, even regularly, for the last nine years as far as the DOS has been in power, in one form or another, and we regularly draw attention to that these are incomplete requests, that the arguments are not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Since it was said here that Article 164. The Rules of Procedure provide that by an urgent procedure, acts can be brought whose non-compliance with the work of the authorities and organisations, I ask, I just don't know who, since there are no representatives of the High Council of Justice here, nor V.D. The public prosecutor, or Bosko Ristić – what are the adverse influences, and on what work the authorities and organisations have been created because Mr. Gjorge Mahovac asked him to stop his prosecutorial office on 12 April? Today, many days have passed since that date, and I ask, "What harm has it come to mind that some harm has occurred to Mr. Gjorgh Mahovec, for he is not resolved, and will not be resolved on the day when he willed it?" You've been able to put this on the agenda of the Fourth and Fifth Sessions, but you haven't done it, for your only known reasons. So, SRS MPs, members of the Justice and Administration Committee, every time we have on the agenda of this decision, we insist that the motions for a decision to suspend the duties of the judicial or public prosecutorial office, at least the members of the Committee get some documentation, so that they can participate in the debate, that they know what the reasons are, which is why someone, on a personal request, wants to stop his judicial or public prosecutorial function. I must admit that in the previous session, when the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration was Mr. Jovan Palalic, in one period we really received valid documentation when it came to proposals for such decisions, but it was only during that short period. Neither before nor after that, we never got the proper documentation. We didn't get it, and we didn't know the real reasons why Mr. George Mahovac and anyone else wanted to stop him from being a public prosecutor or a judge. More importantly, we haven't received a report on their work. It is impossible for someone to spend a certain number of years in the office of a judge or a public prosecutor, or a deputy public prosecutor, to wish for only his own known reasons that he would no longer be involved in this work, and that the National Assembly, which elected him, that the Committee on Justice and Administration, which is responsible for dealing with this work, by the public prosecutor, in this case, of a public prosecutor in Sremska Mitrovica, would not receive certain information relating to the work of this deputy public prosecutor. I apologize to Mr. Gjorge Mahovec as often as I mention his name, I don't know the man, and I don't want to guess what his reasons are, but in that second part of the debate, I'm going to ask him publicly, because it might be that we get a proposal here to stop a judge's or a public prosecutor's office without him having any results in his work, or, on the contrary, that he's had various abuses in his work. I'm stressing that I don't know if this applies to this gentleman, but it's theoretically possible. We know that there's been someone who understands, or is signaled to know that he's using a judicial or public prosecutorial function, to know that he's not effective enough in his work, and that he's threatened to be proposed for resolution, if he has good connections in the High Council of Justice or in the Great Personal Council, he can get that information and write that he no longer wants to do the job. In this House, such a item of the agenda is considered irrelevant, it is considered sufficient to read the number of decisions and to talk about those who do not participate in the work in the day of voting, except that they vote in favour or against, vote, depending on what they are told, and that someone with such a burden, with such a burden, starts to deal with legal work, some agency work, etc. Just so things don't happen, we in the SRS insist, so far we've always insisted, today and in the future, we'll at least talk about this. If we can't get Mr. Bosko Ristic to be present at this session, then we can try to convince Parliament Speaker Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, who is not present now, to get acquainted with what is happening here in her absence. We're trying and we're going to try to distract her that she's responsible for the application of Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You are it, Mrs. Komic, only when you are sitting in that seat, and she is responsible for it and when she is not in this room and she is responsible for the work of every committee. Of course it is, Mrs. Komic, I know the Rules of Procedure perfectly, and you have never given me a warning so far because it was really by the Rules of Procedure, but it was then your immediate will. But, well, use that right, you can do whatever you want, but not as long as you want. I draw attention to Mrs. President of Parliament that the Committee on Justice and Administration and Mr. Bosko Ristic, the chairman of that committee, above all, Bosko Ristic, the other members of the Committee do not have that kind of responsibility, because they cannot take over the board president's authority, is not doing their job in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The proof of that is also this point of the agenda, and that previous item of the agenda, and I call on the MPs of the assembly majority, there are three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 11, here, and 12, if there are any graduates among them, I invite them to report for the word and say that I am right when I claim that such a proposal, with such an explanation, without some documentation, cannot be found on the agenda, as this item of the agenda cannot be debated if there is no representative present. Also, when we talk about a decision on the termination of the deputy attorney general's office, it is necessary here to be a representative of the High Council of Justice, because these opportunities and these points of the agenda are always used to talk about the situation in the judiciary, of course, very much related to the agenda point, and we are talking here, and we don't know who. We Serbian radicals know, we address, first of all, Serbian citizens and we know that Serbian citizens and all employees in the field of justice, when these points are on the agenda, with great care listen to what we from the Serbian Radical Party are going to say, because they know that we are with a large number of them in daily contact and that our information is accurate. I hope that now you can't generally say that I have opinions, or something from the personal life of judges and public prosecutors, but I repeat that the SRS MPs have regular communication with a large number of judges, and public prosecutors, and their deputies, not to misuse it, but to introduce the citizens of Serbia to the state of justice. Since it's been 20 minutes, I'll continue in part two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19712	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? (No) Yes. Savior Srdjan. Here, you have a word. National MP Srdjan Spasojevic delivered a notice to which, for this item of the agenda, a proposal for a decision to suspend the deputy prosecutor's office, is an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the respected citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us the item of the agenda that is being discussed – the termination of the prosecutor's post. The agenda item speaks of what will often happen in Serbia. We are aware of the fact that a set of judicial laws was passed last fall, that, practically, all judges and holders of judicial and prosecutorial functions will have to go back to the election. We know that, territorially, the judiciary is fully redefined – there are basic courts, appeals, and, of course, cassation courts. All of this contributes to legal uncertainty, especially in the case of judicial officials, some of whom will be elected, but a large number of judicial officials will be found on white bread. The New Serbia MP group has repeatedly pointed out, when we talked about the territory of the courts, that it is not the best way to do all this and that this will lead to a chaotic situation in the judiciary, for the simple reason that some judicial officials will have to travel hundreds of kilometers to the place where they will be offered a job, or where they will be elected as holders of judicial functions. It is not clear how all this will be done, whether it will be implemented in a constitutional and legal manner, because, obviously, as I said yesterday, the institution of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which will be formed, will have great authority. Parliament will only put what the High Council defines here to vote. Last night, in my presentation, I spoke of the fact that it is not natural for some of the MPs, who are chairman of the Justice Committee, to be in the High Council, for the simple reason that, in the opinion of the New Serbia Group, it is a particular conflict of interest. It has nothing to do with the particular person who runs the Justice Committee right now. There's nothing personal about it. That's what I'm saying in principle, and I'd say the same thing if we were in the ruling coalition. We also expressed similar attitudes when we were in the ruling coalition, unlike others. It is certain that there are a large number of judicial officials who are extremely high-quality, but because of the changed circumstances, or because of the territory, they will have to travel hundreds of miles, especially I think about female law holders, who are also mothers, who are in huge and family obligations. For them, it will be extremely difficult to adapt in a new way, as planned, and I fear that some high-level judicial officials, who have excellent results, who have completed the cases in a record number, who meet all the standards for a good legal holder, will, because of such difficult circumstances, unfortunately, leave the judiciary. I'm sure we'll have a huge outflow of justice personnel, like it did in the early 1990s. I'm saying all of this about this point, where we're sure to have a large number of resolutions and judicial functions holders and prosecutorial office holders. Simply, these people will either be forced to find another job in the profession, or go to law school. It's not good for the judicial system, it's not good for the state, because great personnel, who have been doing business for years, instead of making progress, to be the holders of judicial functions in their city, will have to, unfortunately, share justice in another city, in some higher court, with all these difficult circumstances that I've said. The specific reasons why all this was done, one of the great reasons, here the minister also stated, to God, I have to say in a folk way, is that this will prevent the influence of those people who are in a lawsuit or in some criminal procedure in that environment where the judge is currently judging. That can't possibly be the reason. The holders of judicial functions are mostly very honorable, honest and responsible people. Of course, there are exceptions, and if the minister, first of all, or anyone else thinks that someone who is subject to some corruption, not being in their town, but being tried in another city, in this way will prevent corruption, I'm not sure about that. He who wants to be corrupt will be found by the party, so he can judge anywhere; it's about the character of a person, it's about a professional person and everyone is responsible for their actions, no matter where he works, where he lives, whether he lives in his town, or if he's in another place. But time will show who's right. I am sure that the citizens of Serbia will feel the great consequences of such solutions in the judicial system, because some people, hundreds of miles away, will have to do for the most ordinary disputes, let's say, for disputes where the revision is scheduled, have to travel hundreds of miles to get justice out, and it's very logical and good whenever they were able to finish more of these things in their midst. What I fear most is that in such situations it will be strengthened, as lawyers say, the inflow of cases in criminal proceedings, because citizens will take matters into their own hands. Because when you have to travel, or when you're obliged to go a hundred miles and pay expensive legal services and huge court fees, and we've seen that, for no reason, we've raised them by 50%, then what's going to happen? People will take matters into their own hands and I'm afraid there will be an increase in criminal acts. Citizens will feel it all on their skin, but even the state can't be satisfied if I'm right, because it will bring additional instability and uncertainty. Of course, the biggest observation is that in the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and yesterday we saw with this agency, representatives of Parliament, although I am also a representative of Parliament, should not be members of any committee that directly decide, because they ultimately propose, and then here they vote for it. We also saw with RIK what the situation is. There's been a lot of dust about whether certain people are in conflict of interest or not, where votes are being decided, and people's fates are being decided here. I'm afraid that the Anti-Corruption Agency, which takes over the board's intelligence on the prevention of conflicts of interest, will first have to deal with these internal rules and then start doing the job from 1 January 2010. In all of this, I would like to read a letter from a non-governmental organization of families of the victims and the disillusioned persons, because through this, you can also see how the state works and how the courts function...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19714	People's MP, please bring the reading of the letter to the agenda point – a solution at the request of the deputy public prosecutor in Sremska Mitrovica. I remind you that you are obliged to use time as an authorised representative or president of a parliamentary group with the obligation to respect Article 106, which is to speak on the agenda. I warn you, before you go into argument, to bring that letter into direct contact with the agenda subject, and that is the solution to the public prosecutor's request.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19715	I'm going to make an effort to make a difference in the end, if not, in any case, the NS Group will read this letter, because it's very unfortunate people who can't even get their justice today and they've lost their loved ones. This is about judicial authorities that aren't responding to all this. Mrs. Comic, if that's what you think, I'm going to give up reading the letter right now. Believe that the human fates I am talking about, by not conducting criminal proceedings against the responsible persons who have blamed what is in this letter, should be a message to all the public prosecutors and the entire justice system in the country, because it is people who have lost their children in the wars that have happened to this country. There'll be time to read this. As I was saying, we have a long period ahead of us in which, during the summer, judges and prosecutors will be elected. What the NS can be pleased with is that, with a number of amendments that have been accepted, the laws have been corrected in certain segments, above all – a delayed moment with prosecutors, a connection with the conduct of the investigation, which has come to our general satisfaction, because the prosecutorial function is the time when they need to take over the investigation. So, the NS amendment will make a certain order, so the choice of judges and prosecutors will be agreed, and if that amendment had not been accepted, we would have run forward before, which would have further led to confusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19716	Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Zoran Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19717	I have to report a breach of Article 104, the dignity of the Assembly, which I am prepared to harm. You put me in this situation. Please listen to me. Trying to impose today the start of a discussion on the Transport Law proposal will lead to me and my colleagues talking about this item of the agenda, and we didn't intend to, frankly, in violation of the Parliament's dignity to talk about something I didn't intend to do. Now I'm talking to you and the ruling majority, the traffic safety law is a law that affects hundreds of thousands of people in this country every second. At 5:30 a.m., the transmission is interrupted, Mrs. Comic. The police are the promoter, the government has accepted my amendment that the traffic safety law does not apply eight days after its publication in the Official Messenger, but only after six months. Serbian citizens must be informed and familiar with these fundamental changes, which every day and every second have an effect on hundreds of thousands of people. The public's work on detail, amendments to the traffic safety law, will allow citizens to meet. It's a contribution to meeting citizens. When the promoter says - you're right, the law cannot be applied immediately, because people need to get acquainted, then it's insane to impose a debate on the law without direct transposition. Which is why, Mrs. Komic, we do not start discussing this law tomorrow, with cameras, so that citizens know what is ahead of them and what change is made in their driving lives. It's nice today to finish our work on the agenda in principle and take a break. When the transmission stops, we stop working and we don't try like that... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... to do damage to the citizens. I'm appealing. The government believes citizens should be informed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19718	People's MP, I can't tell you that you took the time to hurt the Rules of Procedure, since you were talking about the intention to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Anyway, you have two minutes for that. Two inaccuracies are in exposure. So, the transmission will be by 17.55, not by 5:30, and the delayed transmission, after that. We're done discussing the break. The president is there and all sorts of decisions are made against your proposal to break the Rules of Procedure together, or that only you are violating the Rules of Procedure, the President will, I have no doubt, refuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19719	The word is made by MP Zoran Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19720	I don't know if what I'm about to say first is defined by the Rules of Procedure. The Most High has sent you to this assembly and I truly believe that your arrival of the atmosphere in Parliament will be much better. I don't know if you've had the chance to monitor the transmission, but Mrs. Comic has managed to unite the parliamentary groups in the appeals that we are working on some planned programme today. I'm referring to article 85. I expect you, as President of the Assembly, to tell us when the break will be, because Mrs. Komic said, "Let me give you all the information before you consult, and I believe that Mrs. Komic, by her good old custom, will also be able to subfling, or extend the debate to 18 hours, or after 18 hours, until the end of the item on the agenda, but she did not give a break. Now we already have a real possibility, at first it was theoretical, that this last, 65th point we're discussing up to, say, 18.15 hours, but then we're not meeting Article 85, or we're not having a break today. You gave one condition that applies to 18 hours, and you didn't tell us, according to the Rules of Procedure, when it's a break, because if we discuss the 65th point by 18 hours and go in and after 18 hours of further discussion, we won't have a break. Let's put the Rules of Procedure aside now, but it's perfectly natural for you to tell us – we'll have a break, I don't know, at 15 o'clock, at 16 o'clock. The opposition MPs were here at 10 o'clock; although at that hour, according to the Rules of Procedure, the ruling majority did not have a quorum to begin work, it is natural to include it in three hours and to be the break. I really think that this break will be noble and we'll sit down and make a deal. Mr Ostojic, who spoke according to the Rules of Procedure, made a concrete proposal and opened the problem in the right way, which is that the law on traffic safety, amendments, debates also before representatives, or competent ministers, and in direct television transmissions, tomorrow morning. If in half-six transfers are interrupted, and you intend to work on the amendments, then this whole law and all the efforts made by Minister Dacic and the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Mr Mrkonjic, who came out of line with Boris Tadic, as well as all the efforts of MPs, who have worked and submitted amendments in the best possible way. Many amendments have also been adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19721	Thank you. Technically, we've been working less for an hour today, because later we started. That's one thing. Secondly, as I understand it, the heads of the parliamentary groups have not yet finished, and it is in progress. Let's finish that part of the work, and then we'll see. Mrs. Tabakovic, Jorgovanka.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19722	First of all, I have a question for you, Madam President. If I speak as an authorised representative of the Prosperity Group, and I use Serbia for 20 minutes, can I spend all the time and continue to spend it, or will you give it to me on two occasions, and I intend to talk about this point for a total of 45 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19723	You can't talk because not everyone's authorized representatives...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19724	Thank you. I'll share. Given that at 15.20 p.m., we are talking about the 65th agenda -- a motion for a decision to suspend the deputy prosecutor's office, I am obliged to explain to the citizens of Serbia who are following this transfer why we have misunderstandings about how we work on this agenda point and, in general, according to this session. Proposal for a decision on the selection of a candidate for a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency living in the territory of the AP KIM, paragraph 62, point 63 – The selection of a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency, point 64 – Proposal for a decision on the termination of the judicial duty and point 65 – The proposal for a decision to suspend the duties of the deputy public prosecutor, according to the earlier established practice of this assembly, was included in the category of appointment and resolution, which the Assembly did not open at all, but left for the day of voting a statement on these agenda points. Not entering into the essence, this good, or bad custom, which was established in the Assembly, was clearly abolished, when many other good customs were abolished – that in this assembly we agreed on a way of working and that we were given the opportunity to have time, a total of time, a total of time, a single parliamentary group, or all together, of five hours, to be allowed to present such important topics. Given that agricultural laws are, even one submitted two days before the sitting alone, 15, place them in one same basket, that is, at the same time as five hours, and that the ratifications, which were 38, of which were only four, are not diminishing the importance of remaining 34 points, financially binding, and not only for us, as this generation, but also for those who are coming and who will have to pay off the debts that we accept with these ratifications, then they were really expected to enable each of these points individually to make their total estimated time-consuming topics, not directly but in a very close relationship with the topic. In that sense, in the time that belongs to the Prosperity Group, Serbia is talking about the termination of the Deputy Prosecutor's office, in fact, I will speak in general of these appointments and resolutions and of touching what for us as a state and as Parliament means a judicial function, but also of a public prosecutor, and all of it as part of some generally declared fight against corruption, which is the cancer of this society. Why do we feel that the issue of termination of the public prosecutor's office is important? The judicial system and all those who are part of this branch are of great importance to achieve some of the values of this society that qualify us, firstly, as a good society of their citizens, and then a country that qualify for some broader integration, for business and for partnership with other regulated states. Is that what we're doing, and are we serious about it? The way we have proposed judicial laws, the way we work in respect of the contract, the way the judicial authorities are pressured, above all, by the executive authority, does not speak in favour of it. On the contrary, the reduction in Parliament's role and decision-making in such points of the agenda and in such laws speaks of a trend that is not local and is not only in Serbia, but is wider. I'm free to say, at least European. What is happening today in the House of Great Britain, where all have defined the danger of the outbreak of an affair on illegal, or legal, but excessive costs in Parliament, in which the President of Parliament offered his resignation for the first time 300 years back, has led to the conclusion that the government from Parliament, the legislative branch, is knowingly moving to executive power, or that the government wants to have a prevailing influence on the lives of citizens, but also on the migration of the role and importance of the state to the European Parliament and on that level of decision-making. Since we do not have such an old tradition of parliamentaryism, or parliamentary democracy, as a multi-party state, that we do not seem to be such a soon-to-be member of the European Parliament, we must seriously work to maintain the role and importance of the Parliament in which we are sitting, by seriously adopting laws that depend on the regulation of the lives of our citizens. As long as you gentlemen from the ruling majority, don't make up some better and more useful way for citizens' lives to edit more meaningful, cheaper and to live better, we will fight here for a decent parliament, for a public word that is decent, in a manner similar to the Prosperity Group, Serbia. This means that we are talking to you about the importance of the prosecutor's office, but also about how we discuss the important points of the agenda. If we have agreed that we do not have a replacement for this parliament, and we do not have it because the doors of Europe are not so wide open to us, because there are many conditions, if we agree that we should not accept the pressures of the executive authorities that it is doing legislative work, then you will accept that there is a direct link between what corruption is and the examples that I will give you, where the state has failed to deal with the mechanisms available to deal with this corruption. And not only is it bare, and then it gets into newspaper columns, various direct and indirect channels of news channels and what's called'recet public words', but that, so stamped, it is also punished at those instances that are in charge of the law, i.e. that the police authorities, as investigative authorities, and prosecutors, the defence and judicial authorities are dealing with the work, because that is in the description of their work, and that is the real and only way to fight for the dignity of this country and for the better life of citizens. I'll start with a drastic example. The privatisation of "Mobtel" is one of, some say, better, significant, more lucrative, and I will say that there remained bitter taste in all of us, above all, because of how one company was allowed to form, and then, unauthorized ways, taken away by the one who had previously been allowed to form. This may concern us, more or less, as illegality, but we are directly concerned that the money from the privatisation of the "Mobtel" has been spent. I want to introduce you today to the details of who actually sold the "Mobtel" and for what amount. When Mladjan Dinkic explains to you and tells you that the government sold the "Mobtel" for one billion and 513m euros, much more than the government of Milosevic did, then he should be told that he is not telling the truth, or Serbian, clearly – that he is lying. This is because the government didn't sell "Mobtel", I repeat -- the government didn't sell "Mobtel", but the newly founded company "Moby 063". The company was founded by the government, with 30% participation in the Austrian consortium representing Martin Schlaf. Our public is that name, I hope, known and hard to forget. It's not the same thing, and that self-proclaimed expert would have to know. The question arises, why did the government make a new company with Martin Schlaff, when "Mobtel" and "Mobi 063" were neither connected, or I ask the question, and I ask the citizens to record it for themselves, why did the Serbian Government, without Martin Schlaf, form and then auctioned "Moby 063" and the mobile phone license, which, by the way, was, by the way, totally illegally taken away by the "Mobtel" at the time? I'll offer my answers, and whoever's better, go ahead. Dinkic previously agreed with Martin Schlaf, whose consortium in the founding capital, Mobi 063 has entered a non-money stake of only 34m euros. By selling 30% of his stake, Mr. Martin Schlaff acquired an incredible 350m euros. This one would also be envied by Mr Bozidar Djelic, who, by trading privileged information and by not respecting the ban on competition of the Labour Act, has acquired those famous 11m euros from the Credit Agrikol Bank and has never found out whether or not he paid taxes when he took action to re-enter the government. I repeat, for only 34m euros, Mr. Martin Schlaf has acquired an incredible 358m euros. Did some prosecutor, some lawyer, some advocate of law, legal science and the rule of law, dare and be able to react, or might there be in some piece of paper that warns the state that this is a matter for the benefit of the individual, and will one day hear about it, when someone dares to introduce us to it, or are we a legal state and this, in the bodies involved, we should talk about it? I'll explain how 358m euros came from. When the sale price, out of one billion and 513m euros, is subtracted from the value of mobile phone licenses, amounting to 320m euros, the rest is divided as the company was founded, compared to 70 to 30, and 30% received an Austrian consortium. So 358m euros, and that Moby 063 has not worked a single day before, even had a tax identification number. In doing so, PTT Serbia, as a public company, bought for only one euro of the state's founding capital in the "Mobtel", the document I own, and then acquired capital of around 100m euros from the really achieved sales price "Mobi 063". Thus, by the illegal process of establishing Mobi 063, Mladjan Dinkic, as a prominent representative of the then government of the Republic of Serbia, enabled Slaf's consortium to obtain an anti-legal property benefit of around 324m euros. Don't think I made a mistake, when you subtract 34, net profits from the 358m euros mentioned, without a day's work, without a PIB, amounting to 324 euros. A few days after the sale, the entire Serbian public saw on TV "Pink" footage of Dikic and Martin Schlaf leaving for Austria, so, if I'm not mistaken, also in London. Will the citizens guess why they went on the road together? I think Mladjan Dinkic then justified his trip by going to a meeting and meeting with some EU officials, but our citizens are not at all ignorant and, what I have always claimed, when you follow the roads of money, you will see that the property of Mladjan Dinkic is not in those two cute, tied pillows in a modest 70-square apartment, which he showed us. Do prosecutors resign for such reasons? Do we need to know that for such and similar reasons people lose faith – that in this country they can do their job in the way they took the oath in this or similar home? Are these reasons enough to turn the other leaf one day and to deal more seriously with the issue of the termination of the prosecutor's office, the appointments of judges, and to restore this Parliament's dignity to politics, and these people – the dignity of doing their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19725	Thank you. I'm setting a break. We're continuing at half past five, so the break is 55 minutes. (National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, from the post: Madam President, please return the reminders we received because we requested a break from your colleague. ) Please, everything said, everything is perfectly regular. (National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic from the post: Now it turns out that we were right. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19728	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the mention of prosecutors and judges, even in this context that we are discussing today, is reason enough for us to talk a little bit about what is happening in the Serbian judiciary. Are reforms really being carried out in the judiciary, as announced? When we discussed a set of judicial laws, to discuss whether this reform of the judiciary includes and a certain reform concerning the relationship of the other two branches of the government to the judiciary, therefore, whether this reform is such a nature that it will really mean a serious shift towards the healing of Serbia's judiciary. I would especially point out that it is necessary to distinguish between the judge and the prosecutor's resolution and the termination of their post. We're talking today about the termination of office, which means that these prosecutors either met the conditions laid down by law for retirement, or they asked for their post to cease on their personal request. So, this isn't about some repressive measure, it's not about their function stopping for some reason that's out of their will or desire, or those fulfilled legal conditions for retirement. Therefore, the judges, or prosecutors to whom the post ends, are not in any way punished, in no way has their function ceased to be considered to be a cause of shame or such, so they did nothing to compromise their dignity, in any way. I note this for the reason that there is no distinction in public between the termination of function and resolution. It is therefore well noted, so that there would be no misreading and how these people, whose function ceases, literally, when we finish the debate, would not be exposed to any misdemeanour or in any way be called. I would particularly like to point out that judicial reform is a complex problem, in that it is not a purely structural reform. It is not about reforming and reducing the number of courts, therefore, changing the network of courts, it is not about reducing the number of judges, changing some of the jurisdiction of the courts, or reforming the prosecution in this regard, but also about the need for reform in terms of the interaction of all the branches of the government, and especially of the executive authorities in the judiciary, therefore, courts and prosecutors. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that, instead of being the other way around, to reduce the influence of the executive authority on the courts and the prosecution, we have just the situation that many times the executive authority, which is changing, imposes, and interferes in something beyond its portfolio, outside its jurisdiction. For one democratic society, we need to have these three branches of government, which are completely independent of each other and independent, but there is also a certain correlation, a certain intertwination in certain parts of the government, as well as a balance in that intertwination. Unfortunately, we do not have this balance, because in some ways the executive power has become the most dominant and has taken over the role of the Supreme Command, it is, in fact, determining the work of the legislative authority and, to a good extent, the work of the judiciary, or the judicial authority. In what way does executive power affect legislation? We are witnesses, as MPs, every day we have enough experience to know how the reputation of Parliament is destroyed, in which way the executive power transfers all its responsibilities, the unhappiness and failures to Parliament, which is blamed as the only roadblock for the development of democracy in Serbia, the only brake for Serbia on its way to Europe, because Parliament is the one in which the laws needed to adopt to ensure that Serbia is on a good European path. Parliament is blamed for all and all things, for the great spending of money, for the vain spending of money, for Parliament is blamed for unhappiness, for obstruction. Therefore, Parliament becomes the supreme and greatest culprit in this country, unlike the executive authority, which is allegedly so capable and is working as hard as it can, with this expert, preparing the laws, delivering them to the Assembly, and the Assembly then holds them and does not work, does not act on them. What does that look like? We know what happened to these 60 and some agenda points that we literally got on a nice Wednesday. On Tuesday, we were all present at the session and when we finished voting, we ended this session, and we didn't know what was ahead of us the next day, whether or not we were going to do what in the Assembly at the next sessions. On Wednesday, when there were no more MPs in the Assembly, material arrived and we are scheduled to discuss several dozen laws and 60 points of the agenda. This took everything to be prepared, for MPs to prepare these laws, to prepare the amendments, all within five days, so from Wednesday to Monday. So, five days, it was left to the MPs to prepare for the debate in principle of 60 and some points of the agenda. So much for the respect that the executive authority is showing for the legislative authority. It's just one segment of the relationship between these two branches of government. The second question is the relationship between the executive authority and the influence of the executive authority on the court. Unfortunately, the executive power has taken the opportunity to influence the laws, to change their essence, to put out the positive regulation by means of regulations, to put the regulation first in relation to existing laws, in relation to ratified international contracts and in relation to the current constitution. What does that look like? I think you remember the attempts of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development to influence courts to stop judging, or to end proceedings, even, even in judicial and executive proceedings, labour disputes, because, my God, it's a crisis; if it's a crisis, then it can't be done in labour disputes, it's a business, it's an economy, we can't obey the economy. This is a fine example of how executive power affects judicial authority. Fortunately, the public has risen and proved competent to influence, however, these relations, to strike some balance between the executive and the judicial authority and not to allow the executive authority to prevail and influence the work of the courts. The second example is, for example, a regulation adopted by the government in July 2008, amending the Regulation on the protection of property of parts of enterprises based on the territory of the former SFRJ republics. The regulation, literally, is also intruding into the Law on Fundamentals of Property, is intruding into the Law on Succession, or a ratified international contract, which has thus become part of Serbia's legal system, and as such becomes a priority in relation to domestic laws. The regulation is also contrary to the Constitution, as the Constitution guarantees private property, protection of private property, guarantees the freedom and rights of the individual, and this regulation, in fact, puts it out of effect. When it was seen that the regulation had become very problematic, because the surrounding countries were interested in the implementation of the Sucession Agreement, it had been changed and tried 'on a small door' to achieve what was originally wanted by the first regulation. The regulation is still in force, and its essence is that parts of companies whose owners, with their seats, are located in the surrounding republics, in the republics of the former SFRY, are simply copied to new users of these parts of the company, parts of social property. Therefore, users who have received this property only for temporary use become its owners, i.e. in a completely lawless, illegal, illegal and unconstitutional manner, become holders of the right to dispose, therefore, of property rights and all other rights that follow from the right to dispose of the property in question. With the new regulation of October 2008, the government only changed that part by authorising the user of that property and the one registered in public books as the owner of that property, and its headquarters is located in the territory of the former SFRY, to agree on property-law, to reach some agreement on how to distribute that property, which is a legal nonsens, since the property has been protected since 1991, since the owners, or the owners' seats, were not located in Serbia's territory. Therefore, no one was able to dispose of the property. The property was owned and owned by the tenant and the owner, however, is also required by the holder, the owner, and the user to agree on the property. So, a completely irrational and irregular state. It would not be such a problem if it did not penetrate the rights and freedoms of the citizens, i.e. it did not enter the right of private property, and that is because our citizens, therefore, bought certain business premises that were sold by Borovo, the social company "Borovo" from Croatia. Our people bought this perfectly legally, with the positive opinion of all the authorities, and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and the Ministry of Finance, and the NBS, and the Ministry of Justice, etc. So they made an insight into who owns it. Borovo was the owner. They concluded the contract, paid the tax, paid the purchase price, however, they cannot own and legally bought their property, since in the meantime the July 2008 Regulation and the second regulation were adopted, in October 2008, which calls for a succession, to reciprocate and prevents buyers, therefore, owners, our legal persons whose owners are our citizens, from taking possession of property located in Serbia's territory. Therefore, they are fully irrationally calling for some reciprocity of the concluded Succession Agreement, which is, again, clear in its provisions as regards private property and fully excludes any abuse, i.e. the threat of private property. As far as reciprocity is concerned, there is also suddenly information on the problems of implementing the Annex G Agreement on matters of succession, in a legal person-related work. The government draws a conclusion, and the State Secretary of Justice recommends that the courts stop, think, pay attention to certain parts of that conclusion, which directly penetrates the work of the court, because it says it should stop with court proceedings, because these court proceedings cannot be carried out until the countries of the co-excessors of the former SFRY agree reciprocally on the property located on the territory of each of these states. Unfortunately, the courts have accepted this conclusion. How else would they do that, since the secretary of state spoke to them? The conclusion was made by the government. This means that the government, therefore, was directly involved in the work of the courts, directly ordered the courts to do what to do, even though it was not in her jurisdiction, nor was it allowed to do so, while hiding behind the fact that Croatia allegedly does not respect the Agreement on Sucession and that it abuses the property of Serbian companies in the territory of Croatia. This is a completely missed topic, because the Succession Agreement has been concluded by all the countries of the former SFRY, all agreed to accept all the conditions and all the provisions of the agreement, all ratified the agreement. And Serbia has ratified the conflict agreement and thus the agreement has become a contract, the Succession Act has become an integral part of our legal system, our legal order, and since it is an international agreement, an international contract, it has primate in relation to domestic laws. Therefore, it can be concluded from all of this that the executive authority does not stop trying and exerting its influence... (President: It's been 20 minutes, so bring the end. Please, if I can use 15 minutes. (President: Mr Nikolic is still applying. ) The conclusion is that the executive power affects the judicial authority. That's just inadmissible. If on two occasions, in the last two or three months, we've come to these facts, to this evidence, we believe that this is the tip of the iceberg of the executive authority's influence in court. If that's the tip of the iceberg, we don't know what else is on the menu, what else did the government do, how many years did executive power have such a serious influence on the work of courts. Therefore, when we talk about judicial reform, we cannot isolate this reform only to courts and prosecutors. We need to implement that reform in this interspace between the executive and the judicial authorities. As long as the executive power can influence the judiciary, we will certainly not implement that reform and will not have the desired effect of a reformed judiciary. As long as the laws are put in place ad act, and regulations regulate some matter which has already been subject to positive regulations, the Constitution and international contracts, we cannot talk about the rule of law, let alone the rule of law. If we don't have a legal state, if we don't have a judicial and prosecutorial institution, we can't expect to have a stable society, a society that will know what it can expect tomorrow, because in that case we're in the middle of anarchy. Anarchy is the consequence that we do not have a serious legal system, and we do not have a serious legal system because the legal system does not work if we put its laws out of force by a simple regulation. When I say - out of force, I'm not talking about them being abolished, but the laws not being applied, the regulations apply. If regulations apply, then what are the laws, what is the Constitution for, what is the conclusion and ratification of international contracts? Then it's all unnecessary. Then we don't need the parliament, the judiciary, the courts and the prosecution, then it's pointless to discuss the termination of the office of judges and prosecutors today. It can be done by the government, much simpler and much faster, much more painless. In the last few months, since we've been talking about the big world economic crisis, there's always talk about saving. So here's a chance for the government to simply save, to abolish all these institutions that are obviously completely unnecessary, to take control of their own hands and finish the job. Why, then, a democratic society? The question arises – are we even a democratic society? We are not a democratic society unless we respect the laws, unless the laws are respected by the government, the executive body, which is often also a proponent of the same laws. If the government doesn't respect the Constitution, how do you expect anyone else to respect the Constitution? If the Government does not respect the ratified international agreements in which it was created, or its ministers, what are these agreements? We simply have to ask the question – do we need courts, prosecutors, do we need laws and do we need a Constitution? If they are, then it would be good for each of these branches of government, executive, judicial and legislative, to stick to their responsibilities, to strike a balance that will allow the functioning of the entire socio-legal system in the state. Otherwise, if the answer is no, if we don't need it, then we don't need any democracy and we're going to have one effective government that's going to work fast. It is puzzling, but that is what has obviously been done lately, because Parliament's reputation is being ruined. Parliament is devastated, blocking, or channeling and determining the work of courts. The LDP is for the rule of law and the rule of law and we are for the reform of the judiciary, but we are for a comprehensive reform, for the reform of the whole society, for all the institutions of the system, not only halfway, because half of the reform will not produce any results, and then it is better not to start it, under cover -- well, we are doing that reform, if we want to go to Europe, we have so many laws to adopt. We don't have to pass any European laws. First of all, we need to adopt European standards, and European standards also mean that the borders of the authorities are delimited, and that they only cooperate so much that there is some harmony and balance in their work. It's about the civilization standards, the new system of values, not the mere law-making, the mere creation of laws, which we won't respect, but we'll make regulations that will end the essence of these laws. He shouldn't be hypocritical, he shouldn't be two-faced, he just needs to go public with Serbia and he says, "We want a new system of values, we don't want a new system of values." If we want a new system, there is no rule of law, there is a rule of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19729	Thank you. The word is Mr. Nikolic. You're gonna end up? We are going to the list of those who have applied to participate in the review of the motion for a decision on the termination of the Deputy Prosecutor's office. Mrs. Zlata Djeric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19730	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I am not fortunate to welcome someone from the Ministry, but whenever we talk about a set of judicial laws, or at all, when we are dealing with the judiciary in any way, we cannot help but remember how we managed to bring together in this assembly a set of laws that are revolutionary, which should be radically changed by the judiciary and not accepted at the same time by judges and by citizens, and even in this house very difficult to vote. Ego said in time – it is easy to be good, it is hard to be just. When you're just, you're both responsible and honest and powerful. We must not forget the power of our judiciary and the importance of our justice. At the same time, we must not forget how much this third pillar of the state, or the third corner of the government, is, when we think of executive, legislative and judicial authority, in fact, a wormhole at this point, above all, about efficiency. We know that even the most banal court proceedings are being conducted for ten years, that ordinary litigation is being conducted for ten years, that very often one of the parties does not experience the end of the trial. Therefore, the judiciary really needed a radical reform, but we are afraid that in the way it is imagined, how it will be implemented and how long its implementation has been delayed, it will make it more difficult and slow down that justice, which everyone in these areas knows is slow, but they expected it to be available at least. We were able to achieve something that wasn't our citizens' dream, which is that justice was slow and unattainable. In any case, if we have ever seen this clearly, we see today, just on the case of Dragan Marić and these events that are parallel to the debate in this home. However, when we talk about judicial authority, we must not forget how much the judiciary has always been exposed to political pressures, how much the government has managed to remain addicted to us, and the exact opposite should have happened. The judiciary had to be completely independent. She had to belong to the citizens of her most important mission, which is to make justice available to them, because every citizen's dream is to achieve justice, when he thinks that she is, in a way, being denied. That's exactly the kind of case that's been dealt with drastically, and one segment recently discussed here is court fees. We have stressed, we have discussed that it is not good in this crisis, at this economic point, to increase the judicial burdens on citizens who are misrepresented in court, who are reluctant to prove their justice in court, because then something else might happen, something that we have right now on stage, which is that citizens start to take justice into their own hands. It's not good for the state or for the judiciary or for all the other segments of society. Just think of the 25,000 cheated citizens who bought apartments and, by no means, for a decade, can't prove they've been cheated. There are no roads, ways, judicial co-operation, police co-operation, for citizens to return their property through court. So at a time like this, we have to deal more seriously with the judiciary, the justice and the justice that everyone in our society is expecting. What I'm saying is that the balance between judicial, executive and legislative authorities must be complete, clear and public. I deliberately say public, not transparent, although others prefer to use that term, because transparently it does not mean public, but transparently. We don't think anything should be transparent in that cartoon sense, but it has to be clear and public. There is no longer any evidence of civil society and its liquids, but in the judiciary, where people try to exercise their rights and achieve justice. These laws we are now dealing with are one of the attempts to draw attention to some burning issues, painful places of our judiciary, to remind the public once again how important it is to strengthen this third pillar of the state, because in some ancient times, in some ancient times, there were said to be three worlds of interest for each man – they are a teacher, a doctor and a judge, and each state is built on these three worlds of interest, three sacred pillars, and only a state that equally built and invested in all three pillars could be sure that it would survive, exist as a country per man. I'm afraid that, looking towards the EU at all costs, we've prescribed some laws at all costs, and we've recently seen that on stage, we've forgotten some other, more important values. It is not good that, speaking only of the journey to Europe, we have disguised many other marifetteluke to make them easier, better and more acceptable to citizens. What is important in this judicial set of laws is that it is also on honour and at the pole, as was once said, to this people and citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19731	Thank you, Mrs. Djeric. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19732	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, discussed two very important laws in November last year. These were the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors. The two laws should contribute to the greater efficiency of prosecutors and the quality of their work, which should be raised to a much higher level, but due to the new prosecutor's organisation, will be made, as will the judges, a new choice of public prosecutors and their deputies. As representatives of the opposition, who have reasonedly criticised the drafts of these laws, we are convinced that prosecutors will not be released from the influence of government and politics. Unfortunately, the same situation as the judge. It is good that the laws governing the work of prosecutors are better than those relating to the choice of judges, the network of courts and all other laws that we have discussed in that set. The problem, however, is that the Law on Courts and Public Prosecutors opens up some new complications, which we could have avoided this time. I am afraid that he annuls all the good solutions that have been proposed in this law, because what concerns judges, courts, this also applies to prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia. One of the most important objections of the DSS MPs was that the first composition of the State Council of Prosecutors, the most controversial place in the law, is subject to exceptional political influence, as candidates are proposed by the current High Council of Justice. Many times we talked about members of the High Council of Justice, the first composition of the High Council of the judiciary, the conflict of interest that exists, the pressure by the executive and by representatives of the legislative authority. Laws governing the work of prosecutors represent the development of constitutional provisions. The problem, however, is that a large number of prosecutors, by re-election, will lose their jobs, the same situation as with judges in Serbia, but it is a secret which is the number of people who will lose their jobs by adopting these laws and applying them. As responsible people, who have studied these laws well, we have directed a number of criticisms, with the best intention of improving these laws. Once again, I must express my satisfaction that most of the DSS amendments were adopted on that occasion, but our criticisms were also focused on the government's issues of influence on the work of prosecutors and the newly formed body – the State Council of Prosecutors. What's unfortunate, which is not good, which is inadmissible, in our opinion, is that the government will still have absolute control over the prosecutions. The new laws envision the existence of several types of prosecutors, their hierarchy, envisioned the evaluation and disciplinary responsibility of prosecutors and their deputies. According to the proposed solutions, the war crimes and organised crime prosecution will be designated as the prosecution of special jurisdiction. Public prosecutors will be elected by parliament, on a proposal from the government, from a list of candidates made up by the new body, the new body -- the state's larger prosecutors. The prosecutor's term of office, under the new law, will be six years, and the deputy prosecutors are elected by the State's chief prosecutor. Their function has been constant three years since the first election. The prosecutor's office has been decided by the Assembly and by the State's Chief Prosecutors to resign. If that's the best solution, it'll show up in practice. The fact is that the prosecution, as a law enforcement body, should represent, in the best sense, a feather in the fight against crime and corruption, and this is a desperate need in Serbia. This is not only to be declared advocating, but also to be demonstrated through the application of the law and the day-to-day functioning of these organs. Since we are expected to be re-elected both by the judges and by the re-election of prosecutors, the huge problem is the abolition of prosecutors in many municipalities and in many cities. The involvement of the High Council of Justice in proposing candidates for the State's Major Prosecutors will also affect the measures to combat crime and corruption. What is the situation currently in Serbia and the Serbian judiciary? The fact is that there is a huge dependence of the judiciary on power and politics. The fact is that certain personnel are subject to corruption and that acquittal to those who have harshly violated the law of products, practically, leads to a desperate situation in our judiciary. According to data from the end of last year, only 5% of Serbian citizens believe in the Serbian judiciary. That's what's inadmissible and that's what we should never have allowed. The data and figures from December last year are truly devastating – 4.300 criminal cases are outdated, thousands of criminal proceedings last longer than 10 years, 96% of prison sentences to drug dealers are below or at the limit of legal minimum. Is that normal in a democratic and legally regulated country? I think it's clear to everyone that it's inadmissible. Eighty-eight percent of prison sentences for corruption are below minimum sentences, and when we hear that the government of the Republic of Serbia is seeking to fight crime and corruption, let it take account, exactly, of the functioning of the judiciary and of all the bodies that are to deal with this problem. The problem is that the judiciary is indeed a cancerous state of Serbia and the entire Serbian society. The dependence of the judicial authority on politics, but also the intricacies of the personnel, which we must admit to exist, are a big problem. It won't be easy to solve. So let's try to correct this situation through quality law-making and allowing it to apply in practice, because it is in the interest of all Serbian citizens, regardless of the political parties and their current position, whether they are in power or in opposition. What I can't avoid right now is whether yesterday's U.S. Vice President's visit to the United States, Mr. Beyden, and the entire security and the city's blockade, was just a show for the people, to talk about something, to show that we have helicopters, that we have MiGs, that we have police who are able to do this job well and this very serious situation that, as far as I've heard, is finally resolved in the Serbian presidency. I think that in the right way it is not responsible for this situation and that the responsible people for this need to bear responsibility and explain to the citizens of Serbia how it is possible for such situations to happen in Serbia. Don't make us look like a funny country, that at that moment, the day that we're having the vice president of the United States, apparently, everything works, when people were stopped at the intersections and they couldn't walk freely. With the full understanding of Belgrade citizens for the whole procedure, which Minister Dacic announced the other day, what happened today is a real shame for the state of Serbia, for the MUP and for all people who need to deal with the security and security of both citizens and state officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19733	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Mrs. Vervain Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19734	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are talking today about a motion for a decision to stop this post with Mr. George Mahovac, deputy district attorney from Sremska Mitrovica on 12 April this year. On a formal basis, it is not good that the President of Parliament and the Chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration, Mr Bosko Ristic, puts us in a position to make decisions here with retroactive application. Of course, Mr. Mahovac cannot be held accountable for the irresponsible work of Mr. Bosko Ristic and certainly should accept his proposal, that is, the proposal at his request, the proposal to relieve him of the role of the deputy public prosecutor, but it is not good that the MPs and the public of Serbia will remain deprived of the real reasons offered by Mr. Mahovac to ask him not to deal with this, indeed, respectable and socially significant function, that is, work. Since the Committee on Justice and Administration has not done so in accordance with the agreement, it has even been concluded in the previous assembly of Parliament and the Committee that, in the case of such requests and proposals for decisions, Members of the People's Parliament or at least Members of the Committee on Justice and Administration, a request for the person who submits that request, relating to the resolution of the prosecutor's or judicial office, or any judicial functions, has been submitted. Why does it matter? I will try to explain a few very important things, I would say, that are happening in our judiciary, and I will only say that from the point of view and the question – what of these, possibly, causes led Mr. Gjorge Mahovec to ask that he no longer do this public prosecutor's work. Remember, we spoke several times between colleagues Krasic and me, and the media wrote a lot about the fact that in the not-so-time past, a few months ago, we had here a proposal, namely the request of two Serbian Supreme Court judges to stop their judicial function. We didn't have a valid explanation at the time, although we insisted on it, but we Serbian radicals received the right information, and later the media also informed the public. It was that, for example, a Supreme Court judge asked that he no longer deal with the work, that the Assembly had resolved it because it could not accept that, rather than by law, he was judging by the will of the ruling majority. Also, remember, and let the Serbian public remind themselves that one judge asked to be resolved on a personal request, because, no less or less, on any court decision, her signature was forged. I'm not going to update this subject right now, in terms of mentioning the names of these judges. Today it's probably lawyers, and I don't want to mention those names, or advertise them as lawyers, or remind them of something that was very ugly and sad in their work biography. When we have something like this in mind, then the logical question, is that something like that, something like that, was the reason that Mr. George Mahovac no longer wants to deal with the prosecutor's office. Because, you know, most of them have been doing this job for a long time, and jobs in the field of justice people do, in most cases, really out of love for this job, out of the desire to truly deal with the law and to do it the way the Constitution guarantees them, therefore, independently, independently and, when it comes to judges, on the basis of free judicial will. Unfortunately, in the state of Serbia, the judiciary has never been independent or free, but Saturday's Serbian judiciary has left since 2001, again from a time when the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee was the same as before, Mr. Bosko Ristic. Remember, dear colleagues, how judges were elected at the time of 2000, and in 2001, it was already how judges were elected and how public prosecutors and their deputies were elected. We talked very often about how amazing things were happening, that at the same session of the Committee, then, at the same session of Parliament, a man was appointed, or elected to the office of the judge and, at the same time, and at the office of the President of the Court. So, without any experience, without any standard checks, without any court attitude in which he works, because he didn't work in court, and all that law then predicted as conditions so that someone could deal with this extremely, extremely important state business. Also, remember that there have been cases where the secretaries of agricultural cooperatives, young lawyers with a newly passed judicial exam, were elected judges. Of course, I don't want to say anything bad, nor do I mean anything about young colleagues who do this job and who work as secretary of agriculture, at that time, cooperatives, but in order to be judges, they had to meet certain conditions. Remember, too, how many judges and deputy public prosecutors were elected in 2001 without fulfilling the conditions laid down by law – how many years must he do this work as an intern in a court of law, or a lawyer, or as in another company. So the basic principles provided for by law were not respected, but, in order for all these people, or one of the people I speak of, to be placed on those functions, something had to happen that had preceded it, which is that a number of judges would then be resolved in this House for no legal reason, because they were not politically similar. These are the facts spoken of in every court and which every judge, every public prosecutor, every deputy public prosecutor knows. I have to remind myself of the time when, that same year 2001, judges were released for violations, all those found to have applied the Information Act. It was also something that was unheard of – that the judge was resolved because he was applying the law, rather than being resolved because the law did not apply. At the time, not to worry about one more from the Roman law known to the principle – that the judge should not judge the law, but by law. It seems, unfortunately, that you still do not apply these principles, as you do not apply those principles, as you also do from Roman law recognised and known principles – that judges judge by law, that they are all the same before the law and that the law is the same for all. Why did I go back to this, like, history in 2001? It is precisely to draw attention to you, fellow MPs and the public of Serbia, as well, to what has led to today's, unfortunately, inefficient and good deeds of corrupt judiciary, that is, the judiciary. Because you created preconditions for such a thing, because you didn't want to accept the fact, which is one of the most important pillars of every serious state in the world of holiness. When I say all of this, I am very aware, and we Serbian radicals regularly stress this, that in the Serbian judiciary there are a large number of honorable, honest and professional judges, public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, but that there is one problem in our society, which has been particularly expressed in the last nine years, and which is shown in this way that everyone who does not listen to the bosses of the ruling majority, or from the executive authority, and is dealing with the judicial work, is in serious danger of showing up here a proposal for his resolution. Remember, a colleague of Krasic also spoke earlier, because at the previous agenda point, it is simply resolved because he does not meet the conditions for performing this function. What are the conditions that this person does not meet? This will remain a secret for the MPs and for the citizens of Serbia, precisely because the Committee on Justice and Administration is not doing its job in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, in that first address I said, I asked Mrs. Komic to pass it on to you, but I am still taking this opportunity to tell you personally that there are major problems in the work of the Committee on Justice and Administration, and that is because the Committee President, Mr. Bosko Ristic, does not respect the Rules of Procedure or decisions made by the Committee on Justice and Administration. I spoke, as well as my colleague Krasic before me, which are conclusions that are not respected and why it puts us and all of you in a position to discuss something and we don't know what the real reason is, we don't have the right reason. The reason for such decisions cannot be just a copy of the law, which only says that it is in accordance with the law. I warn you, as President of Parliament, that you are in accordance with Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, under the obligation to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and that they are in matters of committee work. I ask you, accordingly, to hold a conversation with the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration and to bring the work of the Committee into the business frameworks. Something else happened about the Justice and Administration Committee, I don't remember exactly the date, about two months ago. The members of the Committee on Justice and Administration of the SRS and the DSS have applied for a session of the Committee to discuss the state of the KIM judiciary. This request was preceded by a request from the Committee, I think, even all parliamentary groups, received from the Serb Community of KIM municipalities, because they had concrete complaints and information from KIM courts and prosecutors that Mrs Malovic, the minister of justice, had asked them to join the work of the EULEX courts, in fact, of the Cypriot courts, because they work there from Eulex and Shipari. If they do not accept it, they will not be re-elected when the re-election is on the agenda of this parliament. Mr. Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Committee, has scheduled the Committee two or three days after receiving this request, but Mrs. Malovic, the day before the maintenance of that committee, as a member of the Committee, has informed me that, for family reasons, for a commitment to the child, cannot come to Parliament that day. Regardless of the fact, Mr. Ristic has scheduled that committee. There was a State Secretary present and one of the assistants from the Department of Justice. Of course, we refused to discuss without the minister's presence on such an important subject, especially what its name appears in the context of our proposal. When I told Mr. Bosko Ristic that I knew that Mrs. Malovic would not come, because she informed me as a member of the Committee, then to all of us, the media representatives were present, he said that he knew, too, that she had informed him that she would not come, but, to do to us, I don't know what he needed to do to us, scheduled the Committee. At that time, we agreed on the Committee and it was found in the record that, the moment Mrs Malovic returned to work, the Committee session was re-scheduled to discuss the same topic. Ms. Malovic, meanwhile, has been in the media many times, held press conferences, was in Italy, I don't know where everyone in the white world, but Mr. Bosko Ristic didn't find it appropriate, I suppose, because no matter what we discuss, what we would discuss on the subject, I don't believe that Mrs. Malovic would not respond and not come. I think these are serious problems in the work of this committee. So I remind you once again of your business obligation to, as I said, bring this committee's work into business. Why is this gentleman we're discussing, say, what else could have been the reason he no longer wants to do this job? Perhaps because a public prosecutor, or no municipal prosecutor at Belgrade level, acted a few days ago when there was a vote in this parliament on the agendas of the Fourth National Assembly session, he did not report and did not do what he did in accordance with the public prosecutor's obligations. First of all, this V.D. The prosecutor at, let me say, the state level, Slobodan Radovanovic, no longer knows what to call, since he has been in a state-of-the-art position for almost three years, which is inadmissible and, believe me, ask around, there is no case in any country in the world that there is a public prosecutor for three years. Apparently, this gentleman doesn't read the paper, he doesn't follow, he doesn't watch the electronic media, he doesn't follow Parliament's work, and all of it is his obligation, because he has to act legally and when he reaches him for information. He had information, because the general public of Serbia had them, that, when you voted on the agenda points of the Fourth National Assembly, in this room, at any time during the vote, there was no quorum, and at which point, it was probably difficult to determine, although, given all these cameras, it might be possible, but no one bothered to establish such a thing. I assume the President of the Republic, under Article 112, is Article 2. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with an indication of the laws, although it was necessary that, too, on the basis of what it had as information from this parliament, Article 113 benefits. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to return all these laws to a re-vote in this parliament and to show the undeniable fact whether there was a quorum here or not in the voting day. It is certain that it was not then, but Boris Tadic could use his constitutional right, and should have used it, to return all those laws to the vote. I'm saying this because we expect Mr. Tadic to say in some election campaign that, yes, I admit, there was no quorum at the time, but I'm going to engage to examine what was at the time. That's what he did with the Bodrum affair. I also remind you, I'm talking about this because this may be the reason why Mr. Deputy Attorney General from Sremska Mitrovica decided not to do this job anymore. I remind you that in a situation where you have great problems with the quorum you were also at a time when DOS was in power, when you were bringing, quite certainly, especially now, we can say that this is the most important law, the Labour Act, when you didn't have a quorum, when the quorum was given by Mr. Novakovic, who was in Thessaloniki that day. That's never been discussed again. At a time when you chose Mrs. Cory Widowsky as governor of the National Bank, you also had no quorum. The situation is very similar now, and then, right after that, elections are called, because you could no longer vote from different parts of the world. It wasn't just Neda Arnerić's card and only Bodrum's problem at the time. Then there were two more cards of New Democracy MPs. One of those MPs was Ms. Natasa Milojevic, who publicly admitted that she was in Prokuplje on that day and did not know who voted her card. The court found, I am not going into whether or not it is right, I respect the court's decisions, that Natasa Milojevic voted in favour of Allen Selimovic. Mr. Allen Selimovic received parole, no matter what the punishment is. Why does this matter? Because it is being manipulated in public that the condemnation of Mr. Selimovic is, in fact, the resolution of the Bodrum affair and it is not. Mr. Boris Tadic, in a pre-election campaign, when he was running for President of the Republic, admitted on TV, on RTS, it seems to me that the Bodrum affair existed, that it was true that Neda Arneric was not in the hall during the vote, that someone had misused her card, that he would do everything to get this person in front of justice, that he would ask that justice authorities to resolve the affair and that everyone involved would be excluded from public life and that there would be no more officials in the DS. Remember, at the time, the head of the DOS Parliamentary Group was Bojan Pajtic, who waved cards, allegedly, cards, that is, he explained, and Aleksandar Radosavljevic of Kragujevac waved those plane ticket wrappers. Bojan Pajtic explained how Neda Arneric arrived from Bodruma in a taxi and how she was certainly in the voting day there. So, about the Bodrum affair, there's never been a court case, or maybe it's standing in the drawer of some deputy public prosecutor, which this Mr. Mahovac may have learned, well, irritated by that fact, he's now asking us to relieve him of these functions. There are other reasons that could have made Mr. Mahovec decide on this step. One reason is that neither Ms. Malovic nor any of the public prosecutors at Belgrade's level, no court, nor the president of Belgrade's court reacted to the abuses of the Fourth Municipal Court by the Public Enterprise, Infostan, from Belgrade. I remind, first of all, the citizens of Serbia, that the Public Enterprise Infostan, two or three months ago, sent an account to all Belgrade's homeowners, to every address in Belgrade, with some allegedly unpaid large amounts of obligations to "Infostan", that this was done on the basis of the fourth municipal court's executive solutions, so somewhere it was written – solution 02, some of which was –04, 03 etc. Anyone who has ever seen any executive solution to the Fourth Municipal Court, or any court in Serbia, knows that such a thing cannot be the number of executive solutions and that it is obvious that it is the abuse of the Fourth Municipal Court, the Executive Court, and is being misused by the city authorities of Belgrade, the Public Enterprise "Infostane" and Dragan Gilas. Why do I think Dragan Gilas is involved in this? Because when a large number of Belgrade citizens headed for the Infostan branches in their municipalities, he tried to prove they owed nothing to Infostanu, saying that the payment deadline, whether it was March 1st, moved to March 15th and on April 1st, was now until June 15th. I ask all fellow lawyers who follow the work of this parliament, especially all judges and public prosecutors, is it possible, and I say it is not, that there is a judicial executive solution and that some Dragan Gilas, even if he was mayor of Belgrade, can delay the execution of that solution? So it's common knowledge that it's impossible. If we didn't have a problem in our judiciary, one of the public prosecutors would react, they would call Dragan Gilas, they would call "Infost", the Fourth Municipal Court itself, they would say -- wait, you can't abuse the courts because there's no money in your city taxi, so you want to charge the citizens of Belgrade for what they don't owe, and even those in debt don't have the obligation to pay an account that's older than a year, because it guarantees them the Law on bond relations. We Serbian radicals talked about when it was current and we really expected that one of the public prosecutors would react, in accordance with his powers, but unfortunately it did not happen. Madam Radeta, I'm sorry, just to give you a heads-up. In a few minutes, the direct transmission will stop, and tonight after 11:00, the transmission will be delayed. Go on. ) Thank you very much. What else could be the reason this Mr. Mahovac of Sremska Mitrovica wished he would no longer do this job? It is likely that, like most judges and prosecutors we contact daily, the tribunalalisation of courts, particularly the prosecutors of those special courts, or organised crime departments and war crimes departments, bothers him. What is the view of this tribunal? It is precisely in this special court, the Belgrade District Court Special Branch, that the rules of the UN tribunal apply. In Serbia, you passed the law, unfortunately, we were against that law, where you introduced a protected witness and a witness of a fellow worker. A protected witness is an institution that should exist. I'll explain now what the difference between a protected witness and an associate witness is, because the media, I won't say on purpose, but journalists aren't lawyers, so now I'm asking them to take care of it in the future, interfere with the terminology - the witnesses of the associate and the protected witness. A protected witness can be a man who, for example, accidentally sees someone killed from his own terrace and sees the registration number of the vehicle that escaped the killer. Of course, as a responsible citizen, he wants to help expose the killer, but, on the other hand, as a man who has nothing to do with it, he doesn't want his name mentioned and possibly brought up in a relationship with some dangerous people. A witness in that case, such a witness, a protected witness, should exist. The witness associate is the most profitable interest in Serbia today. Based on witness statements, prison sentences of 40 years are imposed, whether organised crime is at stake, whether war crimes are at stake. The witnesses are associates, as our people would say - two without a soul, one without a head. How do you get a witness from an associate? They are largely derived from the criminogenic circles, since certain services, the MUP, the prosecutions, etc. they have data on a large number of crimes and they know, in a good number of cases, and the perpetrators of these crimes. The perpetrators of these crimes, when the ruling majority is needed, are brought to the prosecution and are then conditioned – or you will be a witness and you will say the text that you put before you, or you will answer for it, that and the crime that we know you did. We today have a large number of people from that criminal mile, who are also perpetrators of the most serious crimes, which help courts make political decisions. This is particularly characteristic of the Special Court of War Crimes, because the court is absolutely political, as is the Tribunal in The Hague, because this court here is not engaged, Mr Vukcevic is visiting the White World, meeting with prosecutors from the environment, as he likes to say, with Brammertz, of course, taking pictures of them and pictures of them hanging on the wall, even with Mesic, meeting their demands, meeting the political requirements of the ruling majority, or the works of the ruling majority, I would say, first of all, Boris Tadic and DS here in Serbia. I have asked several times, and I have never received an answer, although I suppose that everything that is being asked here as a concrete question should come to the competent authority and get an answer, so I am now asking Mr Vukcevic – what is it that the Special Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes would do to find and to co-operate with the cantonal prosecutors in BiH, or prosecutors in the territory of the Republic of Croatia? What did they do to detect and prosecute war crimes against those who committed war crimes against Serbs? Of course, they didn't do anything and, unfortunately, they can't boast of any results in the area. That's why they jump at the moment of every cantonal prosecutor, most often one, I think Fatima, and I forgot my last name, from Tuzla, and at every moment they're extending the charge of alleged war crimes on the territory of the municipality of Zvornik. When I say this, we Serbian radicals always stress that, we insist that every war crime is investigated, but we also know that every war crime has its own criminal and that every criminal, name and last name, should respond. The president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj, has been in The Hague for the seventh year. The question I would ask Mrs Malovic if she were here today, which is not, I asked Mr Vukčević, of course, through you, so either he didn't get the question, or he didn't think to answer, is what has been done by an official state body in Serbia, when, in some official conversation with these various white-world officials, he asked himself – how long does it take to begin the process of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague? How long does this procedure take? Why has the case against Vojislav Seselj been suspended, when only a few hours left to investigate witnesses of the indictment, while all those who have been investigated so far have shown and proved, as if witnesses of the defence against Vojislav Seselj, what I have been saying since the beginning, because there is no evidence that he committed a war crime after he has committed, or that he has committed any crime, because he has never committed it? What did Mrs. Malovic do as a resolution minister? Did she ask Brammertz when he was visiting the other day – why does the Hague tribunal not want to adequately examine and determine the health status of Vojislav Seselj? Is it little that 13 Serbs died in The Hague and in connection with The Hague? Is it little that they killed Slobodan Milosevic because they did not adequately treat him? Isn't it funny and ironic that we get in our media a statement from The Hague Court, or that court council - that Vojislav Seselj has problems with his blood count because he has too many pounds? Is that the doctor's report? Now they have decided that doctors from the Netherlands will no longer examine it, but it will be some independent, perhaps from America, or from the UK – they are very independent when it comes to Vojislav Seselj. A colleague, Zoran Krasic, tried to say, unfortunately failed, was warned about this – that perhaps some of the judges he spoke of had submitted a request for a resolution from the judicial post precisely because they were irritated by this relationship between our authorities to The Hague tribunal and the relationship of our authorities to the issue of Vojislav Seselj, which is being conducted in The Hague tribunal. My colleague Krasic explained it nicely. We know with confidence that a large number of judges, public prosecutors and their deputies are closely following the trial of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. This is what law students and most graduate lawyers do, because there is something to learn from both the area of law and Serbian history, and, most importantly, from patriotism. It's something to talk about. We, unfortunately, have to use these points of the agenda, because we're not in a position to talk like this anywhere else. Every week, when I say "we," I mean the team that helps defend Vojislav Seselj and Zoran Krasic as head of that team, we regularly hold press conferences at 12 hours. We inform reporters that they would inform the public of Serbia – what is happening in The Hague because the conference is dedicated exclusively to the court case of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. The electronic media has, about September last year, stopped carrying it. These are printed, here and there, with two or three or five rows each. How do our representatives, or representatives of our government, react at all when it comes to the UN tribunal? When that terrible verdict was reached to five Serbs sentenced to about 100 years in prison for alleged war crimes in KIM, officials in Serbia reacted, as well as in the case of acquittals for Naser Oric and Ramush Haradinaj. How did Boris Tadic, Mirko Cvetkovic and Rasim Ljajic react to this latest verdict, where Veselin Sljivancan's sentence, from five, was increased to 17 years in prison? By saying that those decisions aren't good, they're exaggerated. What's the point, and why did they react? They say -- such decisions will further drop the ratings and popularity of The Hague tribunal in the eyes of Serbian citizens. So, Rasim Ljajic, Boris Tadic, Mirko Cvetkovic and all those who have responded to these verdicts do not care that General Lazarevic is dying in The Hague; they are not interested in the verdict concerning war crimes in KIM and how it has a negative impact on this lawsuit, which is, in any case, optional, which concerns the recognition of the false state of Kosovo. They don't care. They don't care that these people will live the rest of their lives in who knows what signs across Europe and who knows how they'll be harassed where they serve prison time. It is not the president's concern, nor the president of the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal. It is not a concern for the minister of justice, not this Vukcevic, nor for all those who reportedly advertised it – their concern is that Serbian citizens do not trust The Hague tribunal and that Serbian citizens strongly condemn them for continuing to claim they must find Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic and hand them over to The Hague tribunal. What else could have been the reason for Mr. Mahovac's request to no longer serve as deputy public prosecutor in Sremska Mitrovica? For example, a promise, which has been going on since 2001 -- that the judiciary will also be independent in budgetary terms from the executive authority. What did you do in that direction? In every executive campaign, you promise to bring in a special judicial budget. Since there are no proposing representatives, there is no one to answer me, but I call for not to be called to the Constitution, because under the constitutional provision there is the possibility of clearly defining the judicial budget and, what you have never done, to know where the court fees are going. You, a few days ago, may have also passed the law without a quorum, voted for an enormous increase in court fees, and court fees, dear colleagues, hit every Serbian citizen. There is no citizen of Serbia who has not been in a situation or that confirms anything in a court of law, or that something ends in an outside court, or in a lawsuit, or in a criminal case; there is no man in Serbia who has had no contact with the judicial authorities. That's normal. How much are they going to pay now, and who in this situation can pay such an enormous court fee? You deceived Serbian citizens when you said that these economic measures by the Serbian government would not hit the fastest layers. They will, but every single citizen of Serbia, and a lot more ordinary people than those who are reduced by 10%, because when taken from more, it is easier to survive than one who is already on the verge of existence. How are they going to live, you've also had a parliamentary question today, employees of the judiciary, who work for 12,000, or 15-16,000, up to 21,000 dinars? And again thanks to your law on civil servants, and you have the same thing in the Serbian Parliament. Parliament is left to the Secretary of Parliament, and according to the courts, the Presidents of the Courts, to judge for themselves who will be a civil servant and who will be a civil servant. The same professional cook, same jobs people do, this one in this room is a tenant and works for 16,000, and this one in this room is a clerk and works for 22,000. It's a lousy pay for both of us, but that difference can't exist. Maybe this is funded by court fees. Look at the quality of the paper "Justice in Transition", so it is called a magazine with the impression that the publishers are the Prosecutors of the War Crimes Office of the Republic of Serbia and the Centre for Transition Processes. So the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office is spending state money to issue this magazine. Listen to who is in this magazine: Drago Hedel, Refik Hodzic, Marijana Milosavljevic, Vera Ninić, Aleksandra Petrović, Gordana Petrović, Emma Radosavljevic, Rade Radovanović, Antonela Riha, Jasmina Seferović, Ivan Stojković, Gordana Suša, Filip Švarm, Tatjana Tagirov, Milos Vasic. A number of these names are known to the general public of Serbia and for a number of these names most Serbian citizens would say they have never done anything for Serbia, for Serbian citizens, but that they are intensively doing everything contrary to the interests of the state. Who's in the Publishing Council of the "Justice in Transition"? Dragoljub Albianić, Nadežda Gaće, Prof. Dr. Momcilo Grubač, Velimir Curguz-Kazimir, Omer Hadziomerović, Jadranka Jelinčić, Ivan Jovanovic, Snezana Malović, Ivana Ramić, Andrea Simić, Siniša Okić, Bruno Vekarić, Vladimir Vukčević. So it's obviously about self-promotion of these people. I'm just going to draw attention to a few things, what's been published in this last issue. An interview with Mrs Malovic, who, among other things, says, is on 3-4 sides: "The public should know that the new judicial laws are the ones that lead us to Europe. This is what Europe is asking of us and is ready to support the reform from its funds." So, because we got some money from these European funds, Mrs. Snezana Malovic here promoted laws on the abolition of over 100 courts in Serbia. Unfortunately, the assembly majority voted on a party task for these laws, although at least one third of the MPs outside the hall admitted that such a law should not be passed and today they ask God not to apply the law. Recall how many MPs from the congregation’s majority have submitted amendments and asked for these courts not to be abolished. Of course, we shouldn't, we shouldn't take care of local patriotism, but everyone for the environment they come from has asked that the courts don't stop there. Unfortunately, when the vote took place, they voted for such laws as represented by Mrs. Snezana Malovic here. She further says in this interview: "I also stressed that the elections of judges and prosecutors were often subject to political pressures and personal influences, and thus, in this way, will achieve that in Serbia's judiciary they work professionally, trained and worthy judges and public prosecutors. The new laws will also enable a successful fight against all forms of crime, in particular the implementation of the National Strategy to fight corruption and money laundering. "So in this first sentence, Mrs Malovic admitted all of what I was saying here today, which is – how judges and prosecutors chose. Me, nor the Serbian Radicals, and, I'm sure, not most Serbian citizens, have convinced that according to these new laws, something will change, given that neither these laws nor those laws, and we talked about it when they were on the agenda, there are no precise criteria for selecting judges and for selecting public prosecutors. He also said Mrs Malovic expects the visa liberalisation process to be completed in a few months. We, he says, have done all the jobs we've been entrusted with in a timely manner, in which sense I can agree with the assessment that we're close to the white Schengen list. A few days after that, Boris Tadic said we do not know how far away we are from the white Schengen list and that we are no longer bidding on those dates. I don't know if he's read this "Justice in Transition" or whether he knows his dear ministers still speak differently from what he said. The reform also agrees with Vladimir Vukcevic, the war crimes prosecutor of the Republic of Serbia, and he wrote here, did not give an interview, he is very smart, so he wrote it himself. Among other things, he says: "This root reform would be stress for countries with significantly more regulated legal systems than ours. Another challenge is the implementation of these laws. Unfortunately, the practice of previous years has shown that despite the good laws, their enforceability is made difficult by their inadequate application. "So, it confirms what we are saying, and we claim that executive power, that senior officials from the authorities manage judicial authorities, that is, one part of the judges and one part of the prosecutors. Mrs. Snezana Malovic, whose laws are these, will remain recorded in Serbia's history as someone who signed a solution to the extradition of Radovan Karadzic to The Hague tribunal without having thought to ask her where Radovan Karadzic was for two days, who kidnapped him, and why was he hidden somewhere? The latter, Ms Malovic, with these laws, which she announced for 1 January 2010, has further brought all judges and public prosecutors and their deputies into a dependent position in relation to the executive power. All judges, all deputies and public prosecutors tremble, fear when the re-election, whether something will be resented, God forbid, local Democrats, whether that vote will reach these here in Belgrade, whether someone will take care of the results of these judges and these prosecutors, or, as it has been in Serbia for the last nine years, only party membership will be decisive for the election, i.e. re-election of judges and public prosecutors. People are rightly afraid, because we have the freshest example of a verdict. I don't want to talk about which verdict it is, in fact, that Mrs Malovic showed that she didn't know the law, so because of the early release of one convict, she suspended two officials in Zabela, and only two days after that, when someone read the law, she realized that those from Zabela, or from any prison, couldn't decide whether a court councilman would let anyone go to early detention or not, but that they were simply giving their opinion about how that person ruled in prison. When she realized, or when someone had read her the law, Mrs Malovic, by the most urgent procedure, launched an initiative to resolve the Supreme Court judges who were in the court council. So, she sent a very clear message to all the judges in Serbia – gentlemen of the judges, gentlemen of the prosecutors, while the Democrats are in power, don't let you think about looking at the subject's case file, just look at the name and last name; if the name is close to DS, or stick it in the drawer, or you're making judgments as you're told from the top of the DS; if someone who is known to be in any way in the mercy of DS, then there you can wave, you can punish yourself to the will. You have read, probably, all today in a daily newspaper for a certain Yugoslavia of Kursumlija, from a village that has been punished by 50,000 dinars for driving a motorcyclist, not his own, but his own father, because he does not have his own, without permission. He doesn't have the money to pay this amount of fines and waits when he'll come for them to run the prison. We don't tell anyone not to follow the law, but don't show force on some. How many punishments have you imposed, I'm talking about your judges, the ones with the darkened windows and the jeeps that no cop can stop? How was Mrs Malovic express in the resolution, i.e. in initiating the discharge of these judges, Mr Zoran Krasic and I did not answer, although we have been asking since the first appearance in this House in turn, the two of us – at which stage is the SRS's initiative to resolve the Fifth Municipal Court Judge, Danko Lausevic, who has been in the Greater Personal Council of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court of Serbia, since 2003? She didn't even answer what happened to the case led by this Danko Lausevic, because it was a request for the merger of the case, it was Stanko Subotic-Caneta's lawsuit, it's the one that boasted about how much DS funded it, and at the time we presented what Mr. Seselj was saying - about his relationship with the tobacco mob, for which it is clear to everyone alive today? So it was Stanko Subotic's lawsuits against Vojislav Seselj. The fourth municipal court requested that the case be brought together from the Fifth Municipal Court and somewhere from Statska, where the Fifth Municipal Court, to the Boulevard of Michael Pupin, where the Fourth Municipal Court, the case was lost. Mrs. Malovic did not send what was in her jurisdiction, her officers, to go to see what was wrong with the case, and she never gave us an answer. Here, I now use this as a question for Mrs Malovic, to answer these two questions that are of paramount importance for the SRS. Also, we have no information, and probably not Mr. Gjorge Mahovac, so that's why the man got upset and asked to stop doing this job – did the public prosecutor do anything about these two latest, and large, affairs, related to "The mouth" and "Belgrade" Luka. Huge money from citizens of Belgrade and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia was given through the allocation of these salaries. As an expert, I will say immodestly, for property-legal relations, I claim that when a public defender of the city of Belgrade, when he appears in public, lies or does not know the law, he may not know so much, and then unwittingly pronounces it when he says that Peter Matic, or as he already calls himself, who has received five hectares without a dinar at the mouth, got it because urban conditions changed, so that part of the plot belonged to a plot on which he bought the object from the third hand. You remember, originally he bought it for very small money, famous Cole, then that facility was sold for small money, and in the paper we read that the architect who designed it from Italy informed that there was nothing to fix but that it had to fall from the foundation, so it had to be rebuilt. It was an excuse that Kostic bought for cheap money, so he resold that building three times. To return to the public defender of the City of Belgrade, who should know that if urban conditions changed and if the plot really belonged to a plot on which the facility that has already bought Petar Matic had to be awarded to the owner of the facility, the market price of the plot had to be determined and that the plot, in addition to the market price, had to be allocated to the owner of the facility. The law does not only provide here, so the market price is projected, the sale price in the tender, because it has to be sold and can only be sold to the owner of the facility, but it cannot and must not be given to it, but must be sold to it at market price. There are many reasons and many problems in our judiciary. Unfortunately, this is greatly contributed by the fact that our judiciary is in V.D. condition. First of all, we don't have a Constitutional Court, we have two-thirds. We still haven't fulfilled that obligation from the Constitution, and we won't and can't objectively meet it, in ideal conditions before January 1st, because before that we can't have a Supreme Cassation Court. I hope we get information from the Constitutional Affairs Service these days, to discuss it. We don't have a Constitutional Court in constitutional frameworks. We have a public prosecutor's office for almost three years. For no reason was Mrs Vida Petrovic-Škero replaced Natom Mesarevic again in V.D. The state, and Nata Mesarevic is famous and will remain known for telling her what our people said, the truth, so when she told the public verdict to the accused of the murder of Zoran Djindjic, we received a verdict instead. We just don't understand why, gentlemen, if you have a majority and if you're sure that Slobodan Radosavljevic is the right solution for the state prosecutor, and Mrs. Nata Mesarevic, the right solution for the Supreme Court president, why don't you put those proposals on the agenda, so that it can be discussed, that at least in one segment we have a judiciary in line with our own constitution. What's going on with the Constitutional Court, the way it is? The Serbian Radical Party, our municipality committees of Zemun and the Zemun parliamentary group have submitted a request to examine the constitutionality of the Zemun elections, which were otherwise scheduled for June 7th, which Serbian radicals are looking forward to and on which we expect a convincing victory, and this has never been disputed. But we fought for the principle and we asked the Constitutional Court to determine whether the decision was in accordance with the law or not. We claim it isn't. The Constitutional Court allowed the elections to be discussed, the election campaign to go on long enough to discuss and decide only then. What said the other day, in a newspaper, Mr Sava Angelkovic, a prominent Belgrade lawyer, what would happen if the Constitutional Court were to be objective and work in accordance with the law, so that it decided that what was done at the level of the city of Belgrade, and it refers to the municipality of Zemun and the calling of elections, was not in accordance with the law, so the decision was made when the elections were already concluded and the new assembly was formed? It's got to be that everything goes back to the way it was before. (President: Time. Thank you. Time really flies.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-21-0.u19735	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? (No) Before I conclude a single search on the motion for a decision, does the motionary want a word? Mr. Bosko Ristic is not here. So, obviously, he doesn't want to. I hereby conclude a single investigation into the motion for a decision to suspend the Deputy Prosecutor's office. After a single search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. Thank you for your cooperation. We'll continue work tomorrow at ten o'clock.
