ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30144	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, under the current Labour Dispute Resolution Act, which came into force in 2004, we have had since then, and since 2005, when the dispute resolution agency began to work, 3,600 individual disputes resolved and 42 collective disputes. The law established the way and procedure of regulating individual and collective labour disputes, all with the aim of reaching a compromise solution between the parties in the dispute, to avoid long-standing court proceedings, which cost a great deal. Therefore, the shortcomings of this law have been observed which prevented the Agency from being more efficient, as we cannot be satisfied with neither the number nor the scale of work dispute resolution. Indeed, there has been a need for some amendments to this law, in order to increase the scope of the Agency’s competence or the possibility of the Agency working and, in particular, to amend that member of the law, or a provision that speaks about who can initiate the work dispute. It's the key to these changes. According to the current law, only signatories of the collective agreement could have started the work dispute or, more practically, they were usually representative trade unions. In a situation where we had a lot of strikes, not only this year, but last year, for example, the strike committee under the law could not launch a dispute and seek the involvement of the Agency for Peace Working Disputes. This could not have been done by other trade unions that were not representative, not by a group of workers or by someone who represented them. Therefore, the law provided for the possibility that only signatories of collective agreements could seek the Agency's engagement and participation, i.e. to be party to the dispute. It is a key change in this law. Therefore, not only the signatories of collective agreements, not only representative trade unions, will now be able to do so by other trade unions, groups of workers, the workers themselves who believe that one of their individual or collective rights has been denied. We also extend the types of work dispute that can be the subject of resolution within the Agency for Working Disputes Resolution. Practically, what does that mean? The relevant law provided for the possibility that the subject matter of the dispute could only be collective agreements governing relations between workers, i.e. unions and employers, and not other general acts. In some companies, we don't have collective agreements, but that's why we have labor contracts or agreements between trade unions and employers. And these general acts can now be subject to dispute, not just collective agreements, as was the case so far. That's when we talk about collective labour disputes. As regards individual labour disputes, these amendments provide that the following individual labour disputes can be settled under this law: the dispute over the cancellation of the labour contract, the dispute over the minimum wage settlement. However, a large number has arrived and the majority of amendments refer to this member of the law; these amendments seem to be meaningful. That's what some union representatives were looking for at the same time. I think most of these amendments should be accepted. In other words, the subject of these individual disputes should also be disputes over food fees during work, expenses for coming and leaving work, payment of the jubilee prize, payment of the regress for the use of annual holidays. These are amendments that have arrived, I think, from opposition MPs. We had an interpretation that the Law on Mediation and Mediation, which was adopted in 2005, dealt with these problems and that was the answer why these amendments should not be accepted. However, it seems much more logical not only for this to be the subject of this law, but also for these individual disputes to be in the jurisdiction of the Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes. The third amendment concerns the regulation of special conditions for the selection of the arbitration panel, in order to ensure that participants are protected as much as possible in the process. Namely, when a peacemaker makes a decision, it is not binding and has only the strength of the recommendation; when an arbitration officer makes a decision, it has the power of a judicial decision, or judgment. Therefore, we felt that there was a need to tighten, conditionally speaking, the conditions for the selection of arbitarians. In addition to the general conditions that apply to the selection of peacemakers, we added as an obligation to have a legal exam and that they could be regular professors of the university from positive law cases. These are three key changes, with these amendments, or amendments proposed by the MPs. Other changes relate to compliance with other laws and to positive regulations and are not essential to the very essence and spirit of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30145	Before we continue the session, I would like to inform you that the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group is MP Mirko Munjic. First, they handed over a letter of authority, and last read. My apologies, it's not a deliberate mistake. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs MP Meho Omerovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30146	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable ministers, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia discussed, at a session held on 9 June 2009, amendments and additions to the Law on Peace of Work Disputes, and then we proposed to the National Assembly to adopt this draft law in principle. It is an opportunity today, after four years of application of this law and the work of the Republic Agency for the Peace of Work Dispute Resolution, to say something about the effects of the Agency's work and, in this respect, on the achievement of the main objectives that led to the Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes and adopted in 2004. The definition of calming down towards the International Labour Organisation reads: "Peace is a practice of peacemaking. “ It is, therefore, a practice in which third - party services are used in disputes as a means of helping parties in the dispute to reduce differences between them and to come to an agreed or agreed solution. Peace is a procedure in which in a rational and orderly manner, discussion of the disagreements of the parties in the dispute, along with the instructions of the peacemakers. Since law and reality often cannot and do not have to match, there remains a certain space for their conflict. In this area, individual and collective rights are realised and protected from employment. Minister Rasim Ljajic noted that since 7 October 2004, when the agency started working, more than 3,600 individual disputes were resolved; I would add that there were 42 more collective disputes, and 32 were of general interest. Since it seems to me very little to the public about the work of the Agency for Peaceful Dispute Resolution, I will burden your attention with some numbers from the moment this agency began work: in 2005 six collective and 269 individual disputes were resolved; in 2006, ten collective and 1.659 individual disputes were resolved; in 2007, nine collective and 1,110 individual disputes were resolved; in 2008, six collective and 305 individual disputes were resolved and in this year 2009, 12 collective and 259 individual disputes were resolved. This seems to have fully achieved the objectives that led to the Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes and adoption. I'll remind you, these are: disbanding courts, improving social dialogue, reducing the number of strikes. The next objective is also important, which is to save funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, through amendments to the law and by the adoption of appropriate regulations that provide for the merger of cases, resulting in large savings. The benefits of peaceful dispute resolution are: speed, because the legal deadline for resolving these disputes is 30 days; freeness, because the parties do not bear any costs; impartiality, because the arbitration, or the peacemakers of the parties, choose the agreement, and participate in the procedure themselves, and ultimately, the parties have a common interest – both save both their time and their money. I will point out only an example that in individual disputes before the court due to the congestion of court cases during the long proceedings, the party in the dispute is falling into an increasingly difficult material position. To mention also the psychological burden of people who conduct long-term actions for someone's right, how important it is that the process of calming is quickly terminated. The average settlement of such disputes before the court takes three years, damage to both the worker and the employer. One procedure in front of the Agency costs, to put it this way, two or three percent of the costs incurred in court. The procedure for peaceful dispute resolution is simple and therefore effective. Therefore, there is no doubt that in relation to possible types of dispute resolution, such as judicial settlement, dispute resolution by force or, God forbid, by threat, this way of peaceful dispute resolution is the best way to resolve the dispute. The prerequisite for a quick and effective peaceful dispute settlement is the quality of arbitars, i.e. peacemakers, who must be professional, impartial, flexible, tactical, durable, patient, disciplined and careful. The ideal conditions for arbitration and peacemakers are: voluntary participation of both sides, willingness to negotiate, open statement of facts and presence of valid persons. We heard from Minister Ljajic that there are examples of good practice that stemmed from the application of the law on peaceful resolution, as well as the shortcomings that occurred in previous practice through the work of the Republic Agency for Peaceful Dispute Resolution. The draft law on the agenda today proposes to extend the types of work disputes, both in collective and in individual ones, which can be resolved in accordance with these proposed amendments and additions to the Law. In the case of collective labour disputes, these are, in addition to the closure, change and application of collective agreements, and the application of the general act, i.e. the labour rules and agreements between the employer and the trade union. Then, in addition to so far disputes concerning union organisation and the right to strike, this is now also the exercise of the right to information, consultation and participation of management employees. In individual disputes, resolution is extended, in addition to the cancellation of work contracts, and to the settlement and payment of minimum earnings. The bill further provides that parties to the work dispute that have the obligation to ensure the minimum working process, in accordance with the law governing the right to strike, are obliged to approach peaceful settlement of collective disputes. In accordance with the Law on Prosecution, I will remind you, the Court has found that the proceedings will be suspended if the parties to the individual dispute are subject to judicial proceedings on the same factual and legal basis. Then, in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, the proposal for a law states that the Arbitr's solution must contain an instruction on the legal means. By amending and supplementing this law, we have heard, the conditions for selecting the peacemakers have been strengthened, given that the arbiter, the peacemaker, is making a solution that is justly and executively, so that they will have to have, in addition to the conditions set out in Article 38. The law, and a passed judicial exam, and it is also foreseen that an arbiter or a peacemaker may also be a regular professor of the university from positive law cases. Finally, respected ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members, in order to strengthen socio-economic co-operation, the Agency's duty is also established that, at the request of the Social-Economic Council, it shall provide notices regarding the data on which the records are kept. There is no doubt that these proposed amendments are such as to move towards strengthening the institution of peaceful dispute resolution, because the procedure of peaceful dispute resolution is of paramount importance for both employees and employers, which I tried to explain to you in a brief statement. Through accepted amendments, and we heard from Minister Ljajic that there is the government's intention to accept a large number of amendments submitted, and I would remind them that a total of 22, I believe that all parliamentary groups in the Republika Srpska Assembly will support these amendments and the addition of the Law on Peace resolution of labour disputes in the day to vote. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30147	Do they want the word of the president or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups in a row from the smallest to the greatest? PUPS MP group, does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( b) A group of minorities? No, I don't. New Serbia's MP group? No, I don't. LDP MP group? There is a word from the MP Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30148	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. We have before us a legal proposal which is essentially an amendment to the existing 2004 Law. It is about certain changes that improve the existing law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes. The Liberal Democratic Party supports the law, supports all efforts by the executive and government in terms of pro-European integration. So if we look at this law in this context, then we can conclude, there are certain standards that are also foreseen by EU standards. Therefore, in voting day, we will support this law. We are otherwise at the point of view that tolerance is very important for resolving any disputes, therefore, not only labour disputes, but also disputes at the level of the state, in Parliament itself and in general disputes that arise between parties, in relations between people. This tolerance is the basis of our programme on co-operation in one country, as regards the basis and basis of some progress, therefore, joint work in the interests of all citizens of Serbia. When we talk about this legislative proposal, it is clear that tolerance is the basis of this bill; tolerance, the principle of volunteering, impartiality. Voluntaryness is very important in the event that there is a dispute in this sense, which if the parties understand that this dispute is indecisive in their mutual arrangement and relationship, but that it is necessary for a third party to appear to resolve this dispute, then it is very important that the parties voluntarily accept this third person, the peacemaker, or the arbiter. It is a good thing that this legal proposal also provides for the resolution of these collective disputes and the settlement because the arbitration panel will, in fact, have the authority to say its word in the end, which will be decisive and which will end the dispute. If there is this volunteering and if there is this impartiality by the arbiter in the decision, it is normal that this decision will be binding on all sides. I think it's very good, when there's a dispute, to try to settle the dispute on that voluntary base, through an arbiter or a peacemaker, without at the same time going to settle the dispute by court. We know how burdened the judiciary is in Serbia and that we have long-standing court proceedings. These long-term court proceedings often do not lead to the desired effect, in the sense that someone is exercising some justice, but in the extreme case, both parties remain unsatisfactory in the view that they are in some way damaged in the process that lasted too long, which was too expensive. This is, in fact, an opportunity to resolve this dispute immediately at the beginning of the conflict by avoiding both time and high costs. It is obvious that this law has shown its life since 2004, it has shown that it has produced certain results. Therefore, it is normal for both problems and needs to change over that period of time, and then this amendment and supplement law appears. I think that this law can only give something of quality, especially as collective labour disputes arise more and more, because there is often a misunderstanding in the negotiation of employers and trade unions, and then it is much simpler to settle this peaceful dispute settlement than to enter into expensive judgment. Serbia is otherwise known to have an excessive number of disputes, including these working disputes. These work disputes are often vital to individual workers, since labour disputes usually revolve around existential issues, such as apartments, such as work, so all that makes the existence and life of a worker and a citizen. If these disputes are stalled indefinitely and if, after all, this worker loses the dispute, the threat of existence is even more visible; this has lost a lot of time, in order to lose both that apartment and that job, and the cost of not talking. If this is resolved at the beginning of the conflict, it is much easier for both the employer and the worker who has initiated the procedure, deeming that he has certain rights in respect of housing, or employment. I think that in a situation of economic crisis, when so many companies do not work, when so many company accounts are blocked, it is much more meaningful for workers, i.e. unions and employers to turn to the peaceful resolution of these disputes instead of expensive and long-term court proceedings. Unfortunately, we've been witnessing that lately there's been a lot of talk about how many unrelated staff employees are. Often, the causes of this unconnected employment are precisely social enterprises, which have been tolerated for years from paying pension and disability contributions, so it has come to a situation that a very large number of workers, although eligible for retirement, cannot exercise their pension insurance rights, because companies have not made a contribution, to which they are otherwise legally obliged. If we had had a solution like this before in the law, therefore, to settle these work disputes peacefully, we might have made it much easier to connect that internship. It would not go to court, but by collective bargaining between trade unions and employers, the social enterprise, mainly social enterprises, would have certain solutions and today we would not have the rights of many workers at risk. Therefore, this is one of these significant reasons why the existence of the Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes is good. Otherwise, these work disputes have a specific nature, because they really concentrate on disputes that arise in the process of work, in the process of employment, with regard to all the rights arising from work in a particular company, or other legal persons, so it is a good thing that we have certain arbitration and reconciliation experts in that branch of law. It can't be said that courts have one stalking and clear practice in work disputes. We often witness that when decisions are made by municipal courts, we have different decisions, depending on which judge, individual, or court decision has been made. Often, the second-degree court does not know the same way to rule in these litigation cases of labour disputes. It often happens that the second-degree larger makes different decisions, depending on the larger-to-largest. Then we have a situation that there are no stalking and clear legal views on certain issues in this area. That, normally, gives birth to dissatisfaction and a certain confusion in the parties that triggered these disputes. It is normal in this case to have doubts about the existence of a legal order, the existence of justice and the application of law in Serbia. Often and the Supreme Court gives some contradictory signals; and their attitudes are not exactly in line with reality and, in general, with a positive right. It's all actually giving birth to confusion. That is why it may be best for the informal debate and informal agreement of parties in the conflict to resolve the dispute, to the general satisfaction. It is normal that this pleasure cannot be entirely on the side of one party. It is normal that each of these parties must in some way limit that request a little and give in to the other side, so there is a compromise. The joint compromise, in fact, can produce a result that is much better than the result of a multi-annual trial, with high costs. I think it's a good thing this bill introduces a newspaper that besides existing unions, another union, therefore, a union that did not participate in the negotiations, appears as a party to this peaceful dispute settlement. Serbia, as a country in transition, otherwise has the problem of protecting workers' rights. We know that over the past period, while Serbia was a socialist country, trade unions played a role in the procurement of pig's scales, flour, sugar, etc., and this, you will allow, however, is not a way to protect workers' rights under that labour law. Trade unions are simply in transition, and trade unions need to change their role from the purchase of winters, groceries and so on in the role of the right protector, that is the role of the union, and that is the protector of workers' rights, if they are indeed trade unions, and not the protectors of employers, states, or state authorities. For this reason, our trade unions are often in confusion and are unaware of the role they have been given and have taken over, and they did not expect that they will also have a certain responsibility to those who have given them the role and imposed it on them, that they are fit in terms of the protection of these rights and that everything is done to achieve as far as possible in the area of protection of workers' rights. For this reason, no union can take over the exclusive right to protect workers' interests, especially since none of these most significant trade unions, the largest unions, the most recognizable trade unions have shown that it is up to its role. We have had results, in the sense that one of these unions has actually achieved some significant results, because we are witnessing that employers are still in a far better position and in advantage over workers. I'm not talking about some border and individual cases, but generally looking at it that way. The employers are the ones who impose game rules, and the workers are the ones who accept those rules or not, and are most often forced to accept them because it is their source of existence. If someone is forced to accept some rules, in that case there is no volunteering. I think we could call that relationship some kind of blackmailing relationship, because the labour market is too bulky, and the job offer is too small. Therefore, the union's role today should be much clearer, they should be much more realistic, much more combative in terms of fighting for workers' rights and protecting those rights, rather than simply joining the opinion of the trustees' committee, or state institutions. It's not the role of the union to calm down conflicts, it's not the role of the union to compromise, it's the role of the union to fight and protect workers. If we have clear boundaries between the participants in the scene, between employers, state and unions, it will be much clearer, more transparent and more efficient any settlement of these work disputes, whether through arbitration, peacemakers or in court. As long as we have vague limits, until as long as we have a situation that trade unions often assume the role of employers, i.e. the protector of the state, we will only have one sorting of procedure in peace disputes, as well as proceedings before the court. It's a good thing this bill is on today's agenda. It is good that there is even a law on peaceful dispute settlement, and the LDP, in line with our position to support all the laws that are in the function of European integration, will vote for this bill in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30149	National MP Judita Popovic, authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group. Does MP Srdjan Spasojevic, the authorised representative of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, respected citizens of Serbia, we have before us a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes. It is certain that this could be acceptable from the aspect of the newspaper that has been applied since 2004, 2005, with some changes here, practically, that this law be improved in some way, but I'm afraid that this law, as well as many laws that are passed, will remain a dead letter on paper. The problem is the application of many laws, the law on civil servants in position, the CAP and other laws that are constantly being implemented because it is impossible to implement them in such a situation. The big problem is, Mr. Minister, total unemployment in Serbia. Who are you going to enforce this law with? Who are these workers who work in this Serbia at all? A little, at the moment, public enterprises and state institutions. It seems to me that this law will only create additional chaos between those good employers, small and medium-sized enterprises, which make efforts to survive in this difficult situation. Simply, those who do well will be forced to avoid, as much as they can, if there are any problems, to hire people at all. Many countries have interfered with these small and medium-sized enterprises and those of good business. You are not making any effort to help such firms, to work, to work, to hire, but to choke them with huge contributions for employees (which are probably the largest in Europe). Of course, all of this will result in such and similar disputes. I don't see any big reason to talk about some expensive procedure when it comes to work disputes. Everyone knows there's no court fee for labor disputes, Mr. Minister. Always, until the revision, the mandatory audit was in front of the Supreme Court, in the case of labour disputes. What's the problem if one of the workers wants to exercise one of his individual rights? What's the problem if someone wants to exercise their right? According to the Constitution, the right to work is a fundamental right. In Serbia, Mr. Minister, there are so many unemployed and all those promises you made when you were in the election campaign... The president of the state said there would be 200,000 new jobs. How are these people who are promised to be employed to exercise their right? It's some future uncertain circumstance that 200,000 people will be employed, and we see now that mass layoffs will occur. Here, these laws that are now on the agenda will lead to the enormous layoff of people. Now it is not clear to me that you will by law solve it, and who will, and in what way, enable these people to say that a peacemaker or arbiter - people - should not have been fired. What are the criteria for being fired in this country? Some mists are predicted, practically, a few average salaries, to cover their eyes, but that's not the point. All these people will come to the desk one day, all these people have families, they have kids they have to school, they have to heal, they have to feed. They're going to spend that hundred, 200, 300 thousand dinars quickly, and what are we going to do with those people then? It seems to me that this law, like, like the Code of Criminal Procedure, where we've instituted an institute of guilty confessions, and we're constantly talking about how the courts will be effective... Of course, if we have such institutions, so we don't have labor disputes, so we have a confession of guilt, a smaller number of criminal proceedings, it's certain that the courts will have less to do, less to do. It's exactly a defensive mechanism of what you're reducing 600, 700, 800 judges in this country, because you always have some "stacks" that you're helping to somehow reduce it in courts, in companies in these laws... There, that looks nice, peaceful dispute resolution, arbiters, and everything's fine. Mr. Minister, here we have a concrete strike of lawyers in Serbia. I think you know that. How are we going to solve this situation here? We want to go to Europe and, of course, we should go to Europe, but there is no situation in Europe that fiscal cash registers are present with lawyers and that they do business with fiscal cash registers. Something like that, Mr. Minister, it doesn't exist. I don't get it now, you have a total breakdown in the government – the Justice Department is practically on the side of lawyers when it comes to fiscal cash registers, because they say it doesn't exist in Europe. You have another ministry, which wants to kidnap and say -- we have to have fiscal cash registers, it has to be the same principle for everyone. It's not the same principle for everyone. You have a situation where in Europe there is such a principle. We are constantly accepting everything Europe tells us, so accept it in this situation as well. I'm not talking about the fact that I'm practically a member of a lawyer, but that's totally illogical. Today we also have a statement from the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Krkobibic. He probably solved everything in this country when it comes to pensions, he's solved everything alive, and now he's decided that he's going to deal with lawyers and say, please, if this isn't accepted, we have a worse system than this, when it comes to fiscal cash registers. I can't understand that in this government everyone does what comes to mind. You have the minister of justice, who was probably invited to do this, and some other ministry, the finance ministry, to solve this problem. You see how it is, you can't control everything. When seven thousand people go on strike, you paralyze the system. You can see that the courts are down, and on December 1st, we're going into total judicial reform, we're going to Europe, we're choosing judges, probably a number of similar judges. We don't even know the criteria, we as the public, about how they choose, and December 1st is in 20 days. As far as I know, it hasn't gone that far. I wouldn't be surprised if you started these days by prolonging the choice of judges, as you did during the election for civil servants in position, etc. This is about one big problem – that nothing in this country is known, that it's day by day, to survive, to cover up the eyes, etc. Will someone explain the situation to me – among those five million people who are in line, when it comes to free action, there must be 500,000 workers who have nothing to live on, who have lost their jobs and have very little salaries, even up to a million people; who are these people, who are the arbiters, going to solve it? Which man is now going to say - you know what, you've damaged these people by a thousand euros, these people probably voted there, or most of them, and they've been cheated? They've been cheated, Mr. Minister. If you had a little hearing, you would have said it publicly – it is true, this country has not paid a thousand euros. Stand aside from the workers. You're the minister who's supposed to support the workers. The fact is that sometimes you have statements that can be encouraged, the fact is that you're quite present, but the fact is there's no concrete improvement when it comes to workers. In this country, Mr. Minister, practically no big system works. Look only in the city from which I come – Magnochrom, Car Factory, "Jasen", it completely stopped. It may be some individual business that is being made to survive, to pay basic costs, but there is no job. Worse than all that, small and medium-sized enterprises in the King (and when I talk about the King I speak practically about the whole country) have completely stopped, Mr. Minister. You have great companies, I don't want to mention their names, it wouldn't be correct, which they hire 300, 400, 500 people. All people who have been admitted for a certain period of time are fired these days. So there's no work. The state doesn't pay any debts to these companies, small and medium-sized enterprises. It is your job to encourage government officials to support such people, because it practically closes the cycle: if these people stop, stop and workers, they will have no business, they will come to the Bureau and you will have a problem. Here you have to put out the fire, not pass the law – practically, when everything is ruined, when it's all stopped, we'll settle the disputes peacefully, some arbitrationists will appear. There is one complete illogicality here in the law, which I must quote to you: “The Director of the Agency initiates the procedure for deleting from the directory and makes the decision. ” Please, it's total – cadiya sues you, cadiya judges you. Can't it be someone else, not the director, who's running the procedure and making a decision at the same time? It's something, in my opinion, unrecorded, when everything comes to mind, when it comes to any legal basis that such a thing can be. Mr. Minister, I'll tell you something else. When I spoke about courts and labour disputes, it is known that there was no taxi, as I said, but it is a big deal for the citizens of Serbia and for every worker who wants to achieve some other right... You, I'm not saying you, but those in charge raised 50% court fees three or four months ago. What's 50% more expensive in this country when it comes to prices? So, and that's one way to stop court proceedings, stop litigation, stop trade claims in trade courts. You're disabling the full legal flow, which could be said, and information, and judgment and the exercise of some right. On the one hand, you want to have peacemakers, and you had a situation that the secretary of state from one ministry two or three months ago said that he would prevent work disputes, that no work disputes could be conducted. Is this a message for Serbian citizens to do so in this country? A 50% increase in court taxis... Well, workers don't just sue for such relationships, there's something about compensation for damages, from some other basis, etc. Imagine when you raise something from 20,000 to 30,000, so there are various judgment fees, then complaints, etc.; then you have a situation that turns out to be normal for the number of judges in this country to be reduced by 800. So, a complete inversion, a complete breakup, a completely unacceptable scenario in this country, which this government is making with any laws that we're making. We're making a mistake with Serbian citizens, we're going through 250, so you're boasting 250, 300, 350 laws, and now we have a bankruptcy law after this law; Serbian citizens don't even know what law is in force anymore. Do you know what the worst part is? When you pass the law and someone starts applying that law, and after only a few months you say, its application is delayed for these and those reasons. That Europe will certainly never support. In particular, this law would be good if such an economic situation were here, surely this law would be good, but in a situation like this where Serbia is in this situation, something like this will certainly not be good. The technical solutions of this law are correct, but the situation we are in will surely delay its application. I am so, and of course, New Serbia will try to fix something here through a debate in principle and in particular. I pointed out my fundamental objection – the director of the Agency initiates the procedure and decides, which is totally unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30151	The word is from MP Milisav Petronijevic, the authorised representative of the SPS-JS Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30152	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, honourable MPs, the SPS-JS Group gives full support to the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes. We will uphold this law for the following reasons. First, we support the peaceful resolution of labour disputes not only because it is one way to reduce the number of court proceedings, but first of all because we believe that peaceful work dispute resolution plays a very important role in the development of social dialogue. In our opinion, that's the key question. That's something SPS and JS stand for. In fact, we believe that economic democracy means equal economic rights and social rights. To the same extent. Social rights, primarily the rights of workers and unions to represent and protect their rights. We are against the fact that the violation of the laws governing labour rights, or the narrowing of these rights, becomes something normal, something that is acceptable, that, as is often explained, a necessary phenomenon during the transition period, in the context of the economic crisis, an unsatisfactory condition for the progress of the economy. We're against it. Nor will the "right" to violate the rights of employees encourage and strengthen the interest of investors to invest, nor the principles of the market economy imply the right of employers to deny the law of guaranteed labour rights and labour. That is why we are committed to respecting high standards for the protection of the rights of employees, the exercise of trade union and other rights from collective labour contracts. We have reached another important point – all these rights cannot be achieved without collective agreements. One, without mandatory application of collective agreements; two, without social dialogue of social partners. That is why we insist on the social partnership of workers, trade unions, employers and government. We insist on the social dialogue of the social partners, but on an equal basis, in which there are no winners and defeated, which is guided on equal grounds and whose result enables, on the one hand, the flexibility of capital, and on the other hand, the necessary security of workers. It is a dialogue that equally respects the laws of the market economy, but also protects the social interests of workers and employees. So, I repeat, without collective agreements, without social dialogue there is no real protection for workers. Given that peaceful work dispute resolution is one of the important factors, as I would say, it plays an important role in the development of social dialogue, we also support it for these reasons. Of course, the peaceful resolution of labour disputes, both collective, between the unions of employees and employers and individuals, between employees and employers. When it comes to the content of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes, while respecting the part of the law relating to the procedure, the conditions for peacemakers and arbiters, the notification, the obligation to notify the Social-Economic Council, however, is the essence of the change in this law to extend the types of work dispute, as well as the expansion of the parties to the work dispute. The enlargement of species – rightly here it has been noted that in the current law the work dispute was conducted only on the basis of a determined collective contract, and only those who established it and signed it. Of course, we support that beside them everywhere and everyone has collective agreements, but besides them there are still other acts: the labour rule, agreements between the employer and the union. It's a good thing it's been suggested here to spread to these sides and to these disputes. I think it deserves the absolute support of this amendment regarding collective disputes. When it comes to individual disputes, the relationship between an employee and an employer, so far it has only been related to the cancellation of the labour contract and the payment of minimum earnings. This is where the addition is offered and the contract, in addition to the minimum wage payment. Mr. Minister, I want to publicly welcome your and the government's intention to accept amendments that essentially enable what is the intensity of the Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, to resolve as many disputes as possible by peaceful means, and therefore the proposals made by the trade unions – to extend this to individual disputes in addition to minimum earnings, and food fees, the cost of coming and coming back from work, jubilee fees, regress, not to add up. I support this for the reason it's on the wave of our efforts. Our parliamentary group often endures, on behalf of the union, amendments; there are often misunderstandings from colleagues from the ruling coalition. We are not questioning the principles on which the government was formed, without prejudice to the essence of the proposed laws, the objectives that want to be achieved by this law, but we believe that it is the interest of this government to come to the best solution, on the one hand, when it comes to the law, and there is no need to suffer from any vanity; on the other hand, we are giving amendments to the union for the simple reason that we are thus allowing the social dialogue between the government and the union to continue until the final solution, that is, to the final adoption of the law. For these very reasons, I would like to welcome your intention and determination by the government to continue to develop social dialogue with the unions. We urge you to consider, I don't know if it's possible at this point, given the law's intensity to settle as many disputes without a court, whether there's room, I speak individually, to consider the possibility of an even greater expansion (if not now, then in the future) on two very current issues. One question is discrimination in the workplace. Another issue is the abuse of a job employee; for that, there is even one special law in the procedure. We think that we should also consider these opportunities and see that this process of peaceful work dispute resolution is possible to resolve as many disputes as possible in this way. Not only will we not bury the court, but we will encourage permanent dialogue between the employer and the employees, between the employer and the employee representatives. So, with these few notes, I will return to the beginning, on behalf of the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, we will support the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Peace resolution of Work Disputes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30153	The word is from MP Jovan Palalic, the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30154	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, which is brought in a time that can certainly not be called peaceful, nor out of dispute, especially in the economic and social sphere. The law was passed in 2004 with the aim of resolving the number of individual and collective disputes in a peaceful manner, to resolve expensive cases outside the judiciary, labour status disputes and reception and employees' rights. As one of the colleagues said, the Agency itself has produced some results in the number of individual and collective working disputes resolved, but I would like to point out in this debate on this law (I will then also touch on some concrete solutions and amendments that our parliamentary group has submitted) in what time and in what state this law is passed and what real effects are thus strengthened by the Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes in the situation of growing social tensions and the problems that employees have in the working relationship. The essential question we need to talk about is whether the Agency with its capacities and this number of problems relating to labour law status, income and other rights can also address issues that are so widespread as collective and individual disputes. In a few sentences, I will remind myself of what this government has promised and what it has done and what state it has created in these areas, so that together, perhaps through a discussion, we can see if the Agency can solve these problems at all, whether the Agency has any will at all, whether the partners who need to solve the problem of employees and employers are willing to refer the subject to the Agency when the people whose rights are dismembered are finger-cutting. One who thinks whether to cut off the finger or go to solve the problem before the Agency gave the answer to the citizens – he cut off his finger because he does not believe that the Agency can solve the problem. A series of problems in the social sphere has created the government of the Republic of Serbia. I will come from the rights that the employees had before the formation of this government. The government has reduced a number of rights, rights to compensation at the labour market office. We've been listening to praises about the Employment Act, about the great incentives that will come after that law, when it comes to employment. The only effects of the law are that a citizen who goes to the office no longer has the right to receive compensation for two years; and when he receives it for only a year, he receives a reduced amount, and these funds go to the famous employment agencies that will spread like mushrooms after the rain in Serbia. There's no incentive for employment. It is at this session that we are discussing another reduction of rights, the rights of employees in the status of unscheduled. So far, no one has changed that to this government. It was a six-month period. Now it's shrinking to a period of two months, and we're talking about a socially responsible government, which needs to protect already acquired rights. This government has acquired certain rights, declared itself socially responsible, and then, in its social responsibility, it began to diminish those rights. Is this a socially responsible government? Of course not. The controversy was about maternity benefits. We are talking about the white plague, about the chronic problem in Serbia, and at the same time we want to lower the rights to those who need to make the biggest contribution to this fight. The question is, what kind of social policy is being run? Now we come to the question, in fact, what does this government want to achieve by this law, and what has been resolved so far, when it comes to resolving labour disputes? The previous question, in order for this law to have an effect, Mr. Minister, is that there is socio-economic dialogue in Serbia. Does he exist? What's the status of a collective contract? Does the Ministry have a record of how many border collective agreements have been concluded, where labour law rights can be extended in the negotiation process? Not to say you have a record of individual collective contracts in companies. This is where the general acts that are brought into the company are mentioned. All those who know the role of the union, the position of employees in this situation in businesses, how many employees are left to themselves in a direct collision and debate with the employer, afraid of their job, accepts everything, can possibly achieve some broader rights outside of the Labour Act... The essence of this law should be to be encouraged by the Agency and the Peacekeepers just collective bargaining. We don't have a general collective contract. These are the questions we need to talk about. What is the status of social negotiations in Serbia? Is it possible that in this atmosphere of mass strikes on several grounds -- non-payment of profits, non-payment of contributions, non-payment of severance... I'm sure you have statistics on the number of strikes and how much is the percentage and the share of all these reasons for strikes. Is it possible that in such a situation the government does not fit actively in the negotiation process? The question is: if the government lets strikes go, doesn't solve them, people cut their fingers, lie on the tracks, does the government side with employers? And that would be some kind of policy; it's not socially responsible, but it would be some kind of policy. But we can't see that either, because the number of companies facing bankruptcy is increasing. On the one hand, you have strikes, no profits are paid, no severance payments are paid, and on the other hand, a large number of companies are under bankruptcy. We'll talk about bankruptcy, and that's the next point. This session is a session where layoff laws are passed, on the one hand in the state sector, and on the other hand in the real sector. You'll see what changes to the law on bankruptcy will bring, how many mass layoffs will be in the real sector after the adoption of the bankruptcy law. That's the problem. The government has not defined who in the situation of conflicting interests the employer - the employee supports. No one, because the government won't mind employees or employers. Because in the situation where she sided with employers, she would say – we reduced these rights because we have a clear economic policy of support for companies that are in trouble. Then we would know that the policy of strengthening the economy is one that may lead to greater employment in the long term, and then we would see some policy and some policy indication. In this situation, the number of enterprises falling into bankruptcy will increase and more people will remain on the streets. In that situation, the question and position of such an organ, which, in the period before these tensions, played a role and produced a result... He may not have been as expected, for he was a new institution, and in that sense it may have been necessary to make such changes. Now, I'm afraid, in an atmosphere this pervasive in the economy and in the domain of social policy, it's hardly anyone's going to turn to the Agency to solve, especially collective, disputes. People are looking for other methods and other ways, which are cruel, but perhaps in the end, such methods will give effect, and this agency will, I'm afraid, come into a situation to remain a dead letter on paper. The question has been raised why the Agency's rights to delete, to initiate the process of erasing the peacekeeper and the arbitration officer from the record. A very simple thing – the Social Council, which has so far had that responsibility, does not work. Probably the people at the Ministry saw – since the Social Council is not working at all, let us take this right off him anyway, there is nothing from him, but to pass it on to the Director of the Agency, he may have a better insight into which people no longer deserve to be peacemakers and arbiters. There's an impression, despite the goodwill of this law, that no real problems have been seen and that this is one fog that's being thrown into the public. Like, now the peacemakers and the arbiters will solve these accumulated strikes and problems, this cruel reality in social policy, the reduced rights and fear of every man who is now in a working relationship. The collective negotiation, the conclusion of border collective agreements, general collective agreements, where these rights can be resolved earlier, because the government participates, it rises to a national level, it simply does not exist in Serbia at the moment. As for our parliamentary group, you said, and you're right, that there are three kinds of changes, we intervened in two. They refer to the expansion of a range of issues related to individual disputes. Mr Minister said that a number of MPs submitted the amendment and, indeed, if there is agreement on the issue, regardless of this great dilemma on the position of the Agency itself, the amendments should be adopted. As far as our second amendment is concerned, it refers to the right to be a peacemaker or an arbiter. We think it is necessary, in addition to these conditions, if any experience is wanted in these problems, to be persons who have five years of working experience in the field of labour law relations, especially when it comes to peacemakers. At the very least, it is not a court case, they can be clearer and more concrete with great knowledge that they have to look at the problem and the issue that comes before them in the process of peaceful settlement of work disputes. Regardless of this technical remark, which I see as a will to adopt, the fundamental issue is to look at the role and importance of this agency and to start a genuine social dialogue, it does not exist in Serbia; the conclusion of border collective agreements, general collective agreements, the resolution of all these issues and, finally, the government's definition of whether it protects the interests of employees or employers, in the situation of increased and major political tensions. In such an atmosphere, we can hardly expect any effect from this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30155	The word is from MP Zoran Antic, authorised representative of the Group of MPs, Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30156	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the SNS, it is a matter of employment, labour rights, employment relations of exceptional importance. We believe that the situation in which workers, employed in Serbia today, are extremely difficult, that this is a burning issue of Serbian society today, and that with this law that has been proposed, and which I will say a little later, as we from the SNS see it, there should be a number of other laws on the agenda that would improve the situation of employees and introduce more social justice and more solidarity in Serbia. That, unfortunately, is not there. At the very beginning, I would like to say that the Serbian Progressive Party is very unhappy with the work of the government, the work of the ministry, when it comes to these topics. We think there's a lot missing out on it. We believe that in the last ten years the transition situation of employees has only deteriorated, that even in the media, we don't have enough information about how bad things are, that many things are being pushed, as they say, under the carpet. The fact is that work today is more detestable than decades ago, that work today is not quite a guarantee that you can live a decent life, that you can ensure your own existence and your family. The fact is that today they are in Serbia – and you do not have them in any normal European country, not in any country that is an example, I believe, to all citizens of Serbia – to receive employees in the public sector, meaning, in the public administration, greater than receiving in the private sector. Workers working with entrepreneurs, themselves entrepreneurs who fill the Republic's budget, who allow such a massive state apparatus to be supported are second-class citizens; no one asks them for anything, the administration itself decides how it will spend and in some way rises above Serbian citizens, have become untouchable. The fact is that we have a lot of problems when it comes to overtime, that this economic crisis is increasingly being used to force workers to work overtime, not to pay them. Even the state gives itself the right to avoid the Labour Act and not to pay overtime in some public enterprises, state institutions. We have a lot of problems when it comes to mobbing. I think it's sad that we have a very small number of cases, and I'm sure there's a lot of them in Serbia today, because the fact that we're in the transition process is that capital owners, i.e. capital buyers, after buying these companies, often try to free themselves from the extra workers, in doing so, stifling employees and thus trying to force them to leave these companies themselves. We even have a condition when it comes to motherhood, and very often in private employers, and if the Ministry of Labour, I'd say the whole government is not responding enough to these cases. I got the impression that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy cares much more about social policy and much less about work, that these work problems, working relationships leave to some other ministries or avoid these burning topics, which are increasingly in Serbia today. I'd say, too, that employees today live in fear of losing their jobs. I think we can all agree on that. According to some surveys, as many as 60% of Serbian citizens who are employed are not sure of their existence. Science has already proved that fear of losing a job is beyond the fear of death, beyond the fear of disease, above the fear of crime. The fact is that their existence is thus threatened and that workers who remain unemployed today are marginalized and remain on the edges of some social events. Ten years behind us has created very large social differences. The government and previous governments in this transition process, I say, in these ten years nothing has done to make these social differences smaller, they increase from day to day. This number of unemployed first and foremost shows that this transition is very unsuccessful, that everything you have done in this transition process has not produced results, because the basic measure of the success of the transition must be the number of employees, the standard of citizens. In these ten years, some citizens, there are very few, measured by percentages, became very rich, succeeded in various ways, mostly unfair, to provide a very good position in society, but most in Serbia today are transition losers, and that is what very little is said today in our public. Nearly a million unemployed, it is today a dreary fact in Serbia, jobs lost daily, the lack of any investments, new jobs, foreign and direct investments. All those promises we made in 2000, unfortunately, are not being made by DOS and the parties that were with DOS. The fact is that today is industrial production, so the possibility of increasing the number of employees, falling, is not even on average from 1998, means that we lost these ten years of transition, that the economy has not moved forward. We have a terrible external debt, a recession, I'd say sooner it's depression, whatever government statistics and GDP statistics and how it enhances and enhances. When it comes to earning and easy to get to work, we have big differences between regions; Belgrade and Novi Sad have a significantly lower unemployment rate than the inside, than my Pomoravlje. Salaries in the interior are much lower than salaries in Belgrade and Novi Sad. When you look at all the problems that I have listed in these few minutes, it is almost amazing that the Ministry of Labour does not come up with some concrete proposals on how to improve the social situation of workers and all Serbian citizens; that it deals with, as it would say, packages, that it deals with one-time assistance, rather than allowing Serbian citizens to work and live from their work, to actively engage in all those processes that touch work and employment opportunities. What my colleagues didn't talk about, and I'm using this opportunity to sort of ask the question of the Minister and the Ministry, it's a connection between a job internship, which is current these days, which was supposed to be a topic a month or two ago, since July 1st. One good part of the workers, you say about 100,000, I think there are more, no certified health books, no associated work experience. I know for a fact, I almost talked to the workers of the Jagodina cable factory – 30 of them have been waiting for months to retire, to connect their work experience. If, in some way, this proposal and this government decision allowed you to obtain credit and the funds that would link that work experience... The question is, why are these companies... A good part of them is in restructuring, I have already mentioned an example from the municipality from which I come, from Jagodina; for years they have failed to find opportunities through the privatisation process to achieve any decent personal income, let alone to be restructured, to be privatised. So the privatisation process at the Jagodina cable factory started in 2002. You've been waiting seven years. Some companies, such as Rembass from Resavica, despotic municipality, live off subsidies. About 160,00,000 dinars, the government is literally out there each month to subsidize and help these companies. These companies, according to this law, need to pawn their assets. Are these companies able to get this loan and connect the job experience? I know the Ministry intervened when the workers, or miners, went to the streets, that it was inevitable, but it comes to us on January 1st, the six months expire. The problem of workers, both Resavica and many other public enterprises and how acute it is. The government has to react because it's obvious that the largest number of these problems are created by a bad economic policy that is being implemented, here, years ago. I would also say, as far as social justice is concerned in this society, that the Ministry of Labour has worked very little, that in fact there is not one proposal that would make these inequalities, which are very large, even in Serbia. This way, through transition, right through social differences between Serbian citizens, we experience a debacle. We entered into a capitalism that did not want Serbian citizens, it is a pure, classical liberalism, rather than having come to a people's capitalism that would allow every citizen of Serbia to live, respect the laws, work and live from his work. We had to, if it was already impossible to provide a higher standard for all citizens of Serbia, first of all, to take care of those who are the poorest. In that sense, not much has been done. We all pay taxes, but we don't all have the same right to work. I would say that today the right to work, first of all, determines political parties, both in the state administration and in public enterprises. Today we have a series of examples of families where there are no employees, not to say that people are starving, that children are very poor and unquality food. On the other hand, thanks to some party privileges, you have families where three or four work in state institutions. Party membership is used to ensure whoever performs and who is a member of a party structure; on the other hand, those who do not participate actively in party life are citizens of the other order. I think it's one of the measures that lies within this economic crisis, which is ahead of us in the context of all that is yet to be expected... Unfortunately, I am not convinced that we will be much better in the year ahead, regardless of government promises and current ministers. One measure, even under one of the criteria under this law on surplus employees in the administration or employees of local self-government, should also be the number of employees in individual families. It is enough that you have one employee in the state administration or local self-government, that the transition burden is distributed to all citizens of Serbia, so that some of them are not privileged in relation to each other. Of course, when it comes to professional preparation, possible exceptions are possible, we have an unquality administration anyway, but this may be one solution that would allow everyone in Serbia today to feel that Serbia is their state, that they are not citizens of the second order and that Serbia has significantly more social justice than it has today. When it comes to a concrete law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, as I said, I do not think it is important that it corrects the situation in Serbia when it comes to working disputes, that there are very many restrictions, which are general: above all, the great mistrust of Serbian citizens in the system's institutions. We have the impression that we live in an extremely criminalized society. Workers got the impression, based on the repression the government has been conducting over the past few months, that the government, that state institutions are not on their side. That is why they rarely decide to solve some of the problems they have through the Agency for the Peace of Work Dispute Resolution. We have a big problem when it comes to democracy and transparency in our society. This is also the problem with the Peace Work Dispute Resolution Agency itself. There's very little information about what this agency did in the previous period. I don't think the minister said much in his opening statement either, and he had to say, about the effect of the agency. We all know that she started off very nicely, in 2005 and 2006, but the general impression of the Serbian Progressive Party is that we have a major delay in the work of the agency. What the Agency's jurisdiction means is, the jobs it's doing are expanding by this law, it doesn't seem to be enough to fix things. The big problem is also the slow development of collective bargaining. In general, the problem is that we have a very low level of culture, a low level of communication in society itself. Social-economic dialogue has not been revived, it is conducted in times of crisis, not systematic. That's a big problem. He mentioned one of my colleagues that it was probably the reason why we decided to remove some of the information that had been given by the Social-Economic Council, when he made demands concerning the deletement from the directory, to be abolished by this law. The Serbian Progressive Party is dissatisfied with the Agency's description of the work that it is doing not include those working disputes that are in the privatisation process. We have a very big problem with the privatisation law itself; nothing is actually done to improve the situation in the last few years, we had the last laws in 2005. In general, the situation in society is not favourable for the Agency to have, in my view, a higher number of cases, regardless of the fact that these disputes that are being conducted before the Agency are significantly cheaper, regardless of their relatively fast conclusion. In particular, as for individual members, when it comes to the professionality of the peacekeepers and the arbitarians, I think it's a solution that you suggested well. I think that we from the opposition have advocated this solution even when the law was passed, but there was not enough understanding in the then ruling majority. The provision under which the Director is appointed by the Government is bad, creates mistrust, primarily with trade unions and employees in the state administration, because you now have a situation for the state to appoint a director and that the director directly affects these work disputes. That solution is inappropriate. The choice of directors should have changed in this bill. You didn't suggest that. The fact that we have one degree in the process. This is somewhat contrary to some constitutional principles of two-stageness, in the field of work. It's a failure and in that part you didn't intervene, when it comes to this law. According to us, something more should be done and when it comes to clarifying the role of the Peacekeeper when the Peace Committee is disbanded. I think that there are his powers and his ways of working quite undefined, that it was also to be found under this law. We also have a big problem with the Labour Act itself, without amending the Labour Act, a work relating to a representative union that, with 15% of the employees, appears as a representative union. This creates a major problem in implementing this law, the Law on Peaceful Work Dispute Resolution, because we often have two or three trade unions within the same collective, that these trade unions compete, that the problems of employees and their rights come second. I would say, since I am running out of time, that, in our view, there is a huge error in this law compared to the basic version of Article 34 - you have predicted that the involvement of the expert is deleted. According to some of the findings of the Serbian Progressive Party, we have had cases where the expert was necessary and necessary. I don't know why you decided to do this. When it comes to erasing from the directory, the director's right to delete from the directory of peacemakers and arbitre is and how controversial. We think that the previous solution was significantly more quality, but it is the laziness of the government not to strengthen the economic and social council that is the reason for this solution. I can see I'm out of time. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30157	The word is from MP Jovan Nesovic, authorised representative of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30158	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is before us today to amend and supplement the Law on the peaceful settlement of work disputes. A law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes was passed in 2004 at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Its application began with the establishment of a Peace Work Dispute Resolution Agency, meaning 2005. This law plays an important role in the development of social dialogue, as many of the problems that arise today in the economy between individuals, i.e. employees, trade unions and entrepreneurs are trying to avoid through peaceful work dispute resolution methods. The collective and individual labour disputes have been defined. Collective labour disputes are between trade unions and employers. In the old law, it was defined that it was a dispute that could be conducted between the unions that signed the collective agreement and the employer. Individual labour disputes are between individuals, i.e. employees, and employers. What should be said at the beginning is that the peaceful resolution of work disputes implies the volunteering of both parties in the work dispute and no one can impose it. If one side does not want a peaceful settlement, there is simply no peaceful resolution of work disputes. On the other hand, it seems important to say the benefits of peaceful work dispute resolution. The first advantage is speed. If we are talking about individual labour disputes, under this law, the moment the work is launched, i.e. the discussion of the peaceful working dispute between the employee and the employer, this job should be completed within a month, to bring about an executive solution. If we look at how the courts do it, it's a few months, maybe even a few years. On the other hand, if we're talking about collective disputes, there's simply no big delay in the relationship between unions -- management. An agreement shall be laid down by participants who will negotiate, i.e. talk, and there is equality between trade unions and management; if desired, a solution can be found relatively quickly. The other thing that matters is the expertise, experience and impartiality of the peacekeeper in collective labour disputes. Their task is to avoid what is worst in disputes, which is to strike collective labour disputes. Especially at this time, I think it's important to say that these disputes are free of charge. It just doesn't cost any of the parties in the dispute. I think it's also important to say. The third thing, which is also important – saves time and money. Any individual work dispute to be initiated, a worker who has entered some process with the employer, if the process is in court, is out of work for several months or several years. During that time he does not receive salary, his material existence is threatened, and all of this can have a very big effect on man, causing anxiety, or family problems. On the other hand, the employer may also have major damages, because in the end, when the court dispute is over, he has to pay all the wages, he has to pay interest. During that time, he must hire another employee, whom he must pay. It's simply big money, which can be avoided in such a way as to handle certain court disputes without using this institution to settle the dispute peacefully. As for collective disputes, it is extremely important that they be resolved peacefully in the state of Serbia, especially during the time of transition, the economic crisis, failed privatisations, ultimately the low economic threshold of tolerance that is present in Serbia today. The assistance of the peacemakers can simply be important, to find a functional, good and acceptable solution for both parties involved in the dispute. The application of this law should contribute to better co-operation between partners, meaning workers and employers, or trade unions and employers; to discharge of courts, i.e. to have fewer litigation related to labour disputes; to reduce the number of strikes in the state of Serbia; to have a cheaper settlement of these disputes, if there is a will, I say, on both sides and that it simply works better in the next period of business in Serbia. What was defined by these amendments and additions to the Law is about, Mr. Minister said so, and about individual disputes. So far, this law has stated that individual disputes can be brought if there has been a cancellation, or related to the minimum wage of workers. It will spread to eight amendments, good amendments, which the MPs have supported. I don't think the government and the Ministry will mind. As far as collective disputes are concerned, all that has been defined so far is that it refers to the conclusion of amendments and the addition of collective agreements, the exercise of the right to union organisation, the right to strike. Two other important things are defined, in my opinion, which is that a collective labour dispute can be brought about with regard to the application of a general act governing the obligations, rights and responsibilities of employees, employers and trade unions. Another important thing is to exercise the right to inform, consult and participate in management, in accordance with the law. Another very important fact has been added to this article. What has proved to be something that has been bad so far – could not have gone into a peaceful dispute settlement process because the old law defined that collective labour disputes could trigger a dispute between the employer and the representative union, i.e. the union that signed the collective agreement. We know how many strikes were in Serbia, we know how many strike committees, different strike committees. We know how many new unions were created in the meantime. It seems to me that according to these changes and those who did not sign that collective agreement, but it is signed and applied to them, can be the ones who will initiate to start a collective dispute, or collective settlement of the work dispute. Article 4 of the amendment and addition of this law refers to those actions in which a minimum process of work must be ensured even though it is a strike; these are actions that can simply endanger lives, human health, can cause great harm. These are, for example, God forbid, strikes of electricity, water industry, traffic, administration and state authorities, authorities of local self-government, communal activities, social protection and health. So, before the strike, they are obliged to initiate a peaceful dispute settlement procedure, and that seems to me, in this article, to refer to a member of the 18th old law, better defined than it was there. Article 8 of the amendment and addition of the law also defines one thing that is important. So far, if we go into a peaceful settlement, we're talking about an individual dispute, that it should be interrupted, if it's already in court. In this case, it has been amended and it is said to stop the procedure, and both sides, the old solution, are obliged to inform the court that they are on their way to a peaceful settlement of the individual working dispute. Article 12, which amends a member of the old law, defines who can be an arbitration officer and who can be a peacemaker. Why? It's especially important in the arbiters, because they're making a final and executive solution. These people really need to be professional. It's not just about legal science expertise, people have to have great expertise about communication, tolerance, how to negotiate. There, I think, is the important role of the Agency for Peaceful Dispute Resolution, it needs to train these people who have obtained the status of arbitarian and a peacemaker. I think that's what the Agency did last time. I'm sure they'll have to do it in the next period. In addition to those things that have been defined in the old law, that a person must have high professional training, five years of working experience, that he is not convicted of a criminal offence on an unconditional sentence of at least six months or of an act that makes him unfit to carry out a job, i.e. the duties of arbiter and a peacemaker, this law is proposed to have a legal exam or to be a regular professor of law from the field of positive-law cases. I think it is important and that it is safe to apply the law in practice that this amendment is also proposed in this law. These amendments and additions to the Law suggest that a person may lose the status of a peacemaker, i.e. arbiter, on the basis of the request of the Director of the Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes. We can discuss that. My opinion is that the Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes is interested (that is why it is formed) in order to resolve as many work disputes as possible. It's the Agency's director who's the most responsible if that agency doesn't work well, and he'll have all the credit if that agency works well. He's the most well-advised, and he knows most about how many arbiters and tranquilizers do their job well. I don't see any big reason that there's any concern that the Director will go on purpose to shut someone down, to take away his duty or the right to be an arbiter or a peacemaker, although he remains part of this member who says that, when the job is lost, that duty may seek the opinion of the Social-Economic Council. I don't see why there's a reason why there's a way to push the Social-Economic Council aside. It's just that whoever answers and wants to do the results really has to evaluate those people who need to get those results. I think the solution proposed by the amendments and additions of this law is really good. Another thing that also speaks in favour of this is that the Social-Economic Council can ask the Agency for Peaceful Work Dispute Resolution Report. Therefore, no moment is trying to push the Social-Economic Council aside. It may at any time have all the information relating to the Agency’s work and to the work of each peacemaker, or arbitration officer individually. In the end, the minister said that around 3,600 individual labour disputes have been resolved so far, 42 collective labour disputes. We can talk about whether it could be more, if it could be less. I am absolutely sure that if there were a little more tolerance in Serbia, as with employees of such employers, more such things could be resolved in a more painless, cheaper and faster way. But, you know what, in transition processes, society is in a major crisis. Our society, we must admit, is in a major crisis. The Agency's work, the Ministry's work must be focused on solving as many work disputes as possible in a peaceful way, and I'm sure, if we have more mutual tolerance, that this success will be more visible. As for G17 plus, we will support changes and additions to this law and we hope that they will contribute to better application of the law in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30159	Does MP Mirko Munjic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, want the word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30160	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, for the next few minutes, I will try to keep your attention at the proposal of this law, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes. It has been five years since the adoption of the basic Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes and, behold, after five years, we have the opportunity to discuss amendments and additions to this law. At first glance, it would seem not so bad, since laws often come into this congregation after a year or two, because of their changes or additions. It's been five years here, but, I say, only at first sight would it look good. However, this, as in other situations, confirms some conclusions, some common denominators for all the legal proposals that come before this congregation. One of these conclusions would be that you do not make these laws for them to last, so that by applying in practice, consistent and permanent application, they affect the formation, over a longer period of time, of a legal practice that you so often call upon when it comes to, for example. Anglo-Saxon law, a legal practice that will eventually lead to a much stronger and wider legal certainty in the application of these laws tomorrow. On the contrary, many of your government's legal projects are arriving here with the aim of currently solving some economic, social or political, and primarily the day-to-day political situation, to put out the "fire" that hit us. Therefore, these laws of yours are very short-lived in their original, original form and are often subject to changes and additions, as is the case with this law. The second conclusion that is inevitably imposed in this case is that, when you pass these laws, you accept very little or no good suggestions and good suggestions coming from this side, especially from the Serbian Radical Party. There are many amendments submitted by the SRS, which are not accepted in this House. Among other things, this is one of the most important reasons why the Assembly is covered by amendments and additions to the laws already passed, and since its constitution until today. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Peace of Work Dispute, it cannot be so easily crossed over one association that is being imposed amongst the first, an association that appears among the first here, which is that, in addition to the peaceful resolution of work disputes, there are other ways of resolving accumulated labour disputes, accumulated problems, which could not possibly have the character of a peaceful settlement in themselves, and that they could not be classified in that category of resolution, for example. The court's way. Therefore, in the context of preventing some unwanted activities that might aim at some turbulence on a political scene that could lead to the tremors and the fall of this government, you first bring some measures, such as: changes and additions to the Law on Public Information, the measures for the ban on gathering and public protests in front of the Serbian government, and now, in a similar or in the same context, and amendments and additions to the Law on Peaceful Work Dispute Resolution, which will try to alleviate some major earthquakes on the political scene. These earthquakes are indeed many and there will be many more if they continue with this devastating policy of increasing borrowing by our government in order to cover some needs, primarily from consumption. Indeed, there are many dissatisfied, dissatisfied, many who simply help seeking help for themselves and their families. Mr. Minister, I'm sure you know that very well. Let's just remember the devastating fact that in this and this state, Serbia, according to official statistics, is more than 700,000 hungry; more than 700,000 Serbian citizens will not spend a hundred dinars today. Indeed, it is a tragedy for such a rich country. The government has been unsuccessfully trying to return some of the next generations to its wrong debt-free policy, to fill the budget in exactly those places that mark public spending, so allegedly solve some of the accumulated problems, so to solve some of the urgent, allegedly, priorities. If this government, Mr. Minister, were to at least address those priorities as Louis XV once did. You know that story: during Louis XV, there was also an economic crisis, very strong and very big, there were many hungry, dissipated, there were many poor and many small-income ones, even singers at King Louis XV's court were dissatisfied with their incomes, so once upon a time they went to the king and asked to increase their incomes. You know what he said to them – gentlemen of the singers, first we have to solve the questions of those who complain, and only those who sing. Those were some of the priorities that were solved at the time. Unlike that time, there is a similarity today, there are also many hungry, disfigured, poor and poor workers, you know that, Mr. Minister, but the government is not systematically solving their problems. The government is simply trying to solve these problems in some way that are accumulated at any moment and trying to solve them from the hillside, not systematically, by some pre-planned and planned scenario. It's just, unlike that time, at least today it's those who were crying back then, the singers, they seem to be taken care of, so at least the government doesn't have to take care of them very much. Individual labour disputes are the most common form of work dispute. Given the fact that many workers have lost their jobs in the process, often mafia, privatisation, and that they have objections to certain situations relating to the cancellation of the labour contract, then to the settlement and payment of minimum earnings, they often seek to resolve their individual rights from working relationship through court disputes, in court proceedings. Right? However, there, Mr. Minister, there are a number of problems waiting for them. Some of these problems are purely objective, but there are also many problems that are purely subjective. The first problem that can be treated as a problem of objective nature is the overcrowding of basic, i.e. more municipal courts, such cases, therefore judicial proceedings and enforcement procedures. I can tell you that there are thousands of cases in the Community Court alone in Cacca, which are court disputes, which are procedures of execution waiting for their solution. Just to point out that this government in judicial reform, for example, has decided that in that same court in Cacca, municipal, after basic, when it comes to order, there is no need, or any surplus, near 50 judges. Will, Mr. Minister, 50% of the judges solve these accumulated problems in a less adequate and quality manner, without being able to solve it properly and adequately 50% more judges? Well, it really needs to be either a wizard or a Baron Minhausen, so explain to people that it's possible. I don't think that's gonna be possible, but time and practice will show it. Often, individual judges (concerning this fact, Mr. Minister) are tied to political and party growths, where they are trying to protect certain tycoons and certain local powers. As a result, these cases are often carried out knowingly and deliberately by certain judges, if they are in the process of execution. So disrespecting the law by some judges is a big problem. Furthermore, these workers are often involved in the network of certain dishonest lawyers. The honor of those who do their job well and responsibly, but there are many who, in the misfortune of these disreputed workers, see the possibility of their easy profit overnight. Believe me, Mr. Minister, in situations like this, a Latin saying applies to lawyers like this that while one litigator drags a cow by the horns, another by the tail, the lawyer is a muse. Unfortunately, these unsuspecting workers of ours. In order to relieve the judiciary, but more for the reason that workers would sooner receive the compensation owed to them by the employer, we have proposed two more situations in addition to the cancellation of the labour contract, in addition to the contract of minimum earnings and the payment of the minimum earnings, as you predicted, Mr Minister, for the individual working dispute: one situation is related to the payment of unpaid earnings and the other to the failure to pay the difference in paid earnings under the contract of employment. It often happens, Mr. Minister, that an employer does not pay at all a contracted salary or pays it in a much smaller amount than contracted, all justifying in these employee accounts to individual collective, such as punishments, certain labour destimulations, etc. Believe me, I've been able to see that on the checklist in one firm, it says that someone is collectively punished by 20% or 25% of the profit. What collective punishment? But there's that, too. We've tried to cover these cases with this. So, cases of unpaid earnings in general and cases of differences in paid earnings according to the labour contract. If your intention is to bring certain results honestly in these individual disputes that are resolved in a peaceful manner, then this amendment should also be accepted. In fact, workers, Mr. Minister, are often ready to take some concessions in these disputes, especially in the disputes of a peaceful settlement of work relations, executions and certain concessions, you understand, that they accept certain concessions just to get to the one of their earnings that the employer has not paid them. How will they come to profit if they do not face their rights in this peaceful settlement of labour disputes with their employer? Normally, that is the saying – if two situations are not faced, the correct solution cannot be reached. I think that's clear to everyone. To a relatively small number of members of the bill, the Serbian Radical Party has submitted some other amendments to which it is trying to improve not only the text, but also the essence of the law itself. In Article 30, Mr. Minister, you provide that the court will stop proceedings if the court proceedings and proceedings are a peaceful settlement of disputes from the same factual situation and the same legal basis, but the question is, until when should it be stopped? There's something unspeakable here, and we predicted it would be armed. So, the legal proposal puts it in motion. Or, you're erasing Article 34, Mr. Minister, where an expert was scheduled. You think the arbiter can solve all the problems. Does the arbiter know everything? He's not some superman, so he knows all the trouble from working relationships. You know, for arbiter, a person who is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, who has completed his university, so the seventh degree of professional training and five years of work experience, is envisaged. For example, the agricultural college, which is an agricultural engineer, such as Srdjan Milivojevic, can also be selected for the arbiter. Could Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, as an arbiter, know everything if, for example, the issue of slow revaluation of a relationship, or some money from an earlier period, with some interest rates? Of course he can't. Therefore, it should be assumed that there is an expert expert in this dispute and that it will certainly be able to help the arbiter, or peacemaker to solve these problems. An expert is necessary here, and it really is necessary for you to adopt this amendment. One more thing is necessary to say that this government has the most urgent decency for its actions and behaviour, both for its political inexperiences and for the citizens of Serbia in general. It's high time you weren't remembered in history as a government that had some features approaching the traits of tyranny or human rights violations, etc. It was, for example, at the time of Serbian history when it was here in the power of the Ottoman Empire. Do you know that story, when I was already here, when a Pasha came from Stambol to Serbia and asked for a handle that he thought was the best ruler, and this one tells him – it was the ruler who was also sent from Stambol and somewhere along the way to Serbia died. Such an opinion was then given to the poverty of heaven on those rulers. Mr. Minister, if your government continues to break up Serbia, with the poverty of Serbia's population, by suffocating everything that is national, surely through history, when you come down from power (of course, in another way, not like this pasture), in democratic elections, you will be remembered as someone who did not really do good to this people. Until it's too late, adjust your management to the interests of the Serbian state and the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30161	National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30162	I remind you, Mrs Comic, that under Article 98(2) you have the right to set a break in the work of the National Assembly session in order to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion. We are now informed that Minister Tomica Milosavljevic announced that Serbia has been affected by the epidemic and declared the state of the epidemic on the territory of the entire Republic. You should tell us what the conditions for the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are now. Are we acting like there's no epidemic, are we still holding sessions until one of us gets caught up in the virus, someone gets overrun, someone gets overrun, or are we maybe going to apply the emergency provisions, the state of war? I am interested in whether the Assembly is ready, have you spoken to the presidents of the parliamentary groups, is the Assembly ready to respect the measures applied during the epidemic, which are the measures for us 250 employees in one room in which we can be affected by the virus and to transfer this virus to both the families and other citizens of Serbia with whom we are in contact? If public gatherings are banned, is the National Assembly session prohibited? I think someone should take responsibility for our further work. We from the SNS are ready to continue our work at the National Assembly sessions, but someone to take responsibility for what the sessions are held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30163	Thank you. There will be no pause during this work, because the notice you have given us will be forwarded to the Assembly at the request of the secretary. For the session's work, I take responsibility and we continue our work. The National Assembly session is not a public gathering. The National Assembly session is our workplace, in a house that belongs to all Serbian citizens. So, the moment the official notice arrives, it will, of course, be passed to you, as well as to the presidents, which is for us vice presidents, and then we'll be doing what we're supposed to do, and then we'll do what we do because I think we have work to do, so we can do this job. You want an additional breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30164	At the time of that Louis, where we lived and the previous messenger and myself, was a saying - the state, that is me. That's why I ask you not to assume the authority of the president of the National Assembly. You are not the president of the National Assembly, you cannot say – I decide to continue the session, that this is a job. However, Mrs. Comic, despite your largely leading this National Assembly and its session, I would like you to inform the National Assembly President that I have asked this question to the National Assembly President, not to you, Gordani Komic, MP of the Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30165	People's MP, you have to decide if you want to ask who's taking responsibility or not to ask who's taking responsibility. If the answer doesn't suit you, we can vote on it in the voting day. The follow-up shall be carried out on the basis that, in accordance with Article 27, I am making a decision and I am declaring it in response to your question from the previous notification who is making the decision. The MP asks us to settle this dispute peacefully. In order to be able to settle the dispute peacefully, we lack two things: Arbitrarian and Slow. There's no one else. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, the authorised representative for the ZES Group, wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30166	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister Ljajic, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that social dialogue is something that is imperative for every society, especially a transition society like Serbia. We are now institutionalising one of the segments of social dialogue with this legal project, which is, in any case, this institute of peaceful work dispute resolution. We started this process in 2004 when we passed the Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, when the Agency was formed, the Republic Agency for Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, a year after that. The effects of the implementation of this law and the work of the Republic Agency, as well as of all the social partners, are such that we cannot say that we are too satisfied with the effects of the application of the Law and the work of the Agency, but, in any case, the major shifts have been made on this plan. In his speech, Munjic was absolutely right that there was a rather dreary and gray statistics regarding the efficiency of our judiciary, i.e. the conduct of courts in work disputes. I, as a lawyer, know directly that working disputes take too long, that hearings are scheduled with great pauses, that prosecutors (in principle, the prosecutor in the working dispute is, in most cases, employees, workers) hard and hard to exercise their rights. But it is one segment that we will certainly fix, starting on 1 January 2010, when the entire set of judicial laws will begin and after the general election of judges in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. With these legal changes, we strengthen the capacity of social partners to consume all the rights they have and that stem from the Labour Act and other laws, including the Law on Peaceful Dispute Resolution. When I say - we strengthen the capacity of social partners, I mean employers, but above all, I think of employees, in the first place, employees of companies, or businesses. One of the effects of an effective end to the dispute, whether it is collective or individual, between employers and trade unions, i.e. between the employer and the employee, is to reduce the number of court proceedings, but I say, it is only one of the effects. The most important effect is that the rights of participants in social dialogue, i.e. parties in the dispute, which by nature is a contradictory process, are effectively resolved. As we have already heard from the minister and from previous speakers, rights, obligations, responsibilities prescribed by the Labour Act, which he norms, are determined not only by collective agreement, but also by other acts of general character. These are, above all, the labour rules, various agreements establishing technical and spatial conditions for the work of trade unions, the paid absence of union representatives, etc. This bill of amendments and additions to the law is now expanding this field and into this area. The right to inform trade unions and union members can also be subject to dispute and this law norms and solves this area. What is also a new quality that we have contained in this project is to expand the parties to the collective agreement; for example, not only representative trade unions that participated in the conclusion of a collective contract, but also trade unions that did not participate in the implementation of collective agreements that were not participants in the conclusion. There are also certain provisions concerning compliance with the Law on litigation, which is, for example, the case, that the court will stop the proceedings in a working dispute if a procedure for a peaceful settlement of the working dispute is initiated, which the parties are obliged to inform the court. More important than this... This is, I say, a formal-legal alignment with the Law on a litigation procedure, but one fundamental legal provision is that the parties in the procedure are obliged to initiate a procedure of peaceful dispute settlement in cases of application of a collective agreement, amendments and addition, as well as in the case of the exercise of the right to trade union organisation and action and strike. So, in all these situations, we have this binding norm that parties in the process initiate a peaceful dispute settlement procedure. As far as the arbitration panel is concerned, this is a new quality and arbiters, since the solutions made in this procedure have the character of adjudicated executive titles, they must have certain references. We have a great solution here, and that is that, in addition to the general conditions laid down by the law, the arbiters must have completed a law school, passed a judicial exam; the arbiter may also be a professor of the university in the field of some of the branches of positive law, such as labour law, administrative law, constitutional law, etc. The role of the Republic Agency for Peaceful Work Dispute Resolution is far greater here than existing solutions. An entirely logical solution, given that the economic and social council does not have that capacity, in terms of information on the initiation and the course of the procedure, so that the role of the Agency is not only in the management of the directory and erasure of the directory of arbitration, but also in keeping records, as well as in other aspects of its participation in the peaceful settlement of labour disputes. In the end, I want to say that DS supports this law. In this way we also support social dialogue, we support one idea, one constant in our efforts, and in this Parliament that laws must be implemented, first of all the Labour Act, sublegal act, collective agreements. In any case, the Institute of Peaceful Dispute Resolution is heading in that direction and I therefore consider this to be an extremely important document. We will also support the amendments in agreement with Mr Ljajic, as well as the agreement with the applicants themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30167	Before we move on to the debates according to the application for word, I have three notices. Today's work break will be set after the debate is concluded in principle on the agenda point we are currently considering. On the basis of article 85, I'd like to inform you that we'll be working today after 1800 hours, according to the agenda we're going to discuss at that moment. As for the additional information provided by MP Tomislav Nikolic in good time and in good time, if any information is provided that would have an impact on changing the course of today's work, they will be notified or orally during the session or at their parliamentary clubs, if such notices reach the Assembly during the break. We move to debate in order of the MPs. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a principled search for a written statement, and with a number of MPs, submitted by the LDP Parliamentary Group, the Progressive Group of Serbia, the ZES Parliamentary Group, the DSS Group and the SRS Parliamentary Group. According to MPs' reports, the first to be declared a word in the principle of the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the peaceful settlement of working disputes is MP Kenan Hajdarevic. After him, the word has a folk MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30168	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, LDP does not doubt the noble motives, the good intentions of the legislator of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, however, we will be concerned about whether this law will fully liven up. In the debate so far, we have heard from MPs, both opposition and ruling parties, a lot of reasons for the existence of the Agency for Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, but, Mr Minister, we have had to hear that from you in your opening statement. We of the LDP also expected to hear from you in the opening statement how much the Agency for Peace Resolution of Work Disputes has cost so far, i.e. what was the budget of that agency in the current period, what would be the future budget of the Republic of Serbia, or how many employees in this agency, will be the number of employees in this agency in the coming period, if they take into account the powers to deal with this agency in the coming period. Mr. Minister, in the opening statement, you should have said what activities the Ministry and this agency will take to promote their responsibilities and their results. For us in the LDP, there is not only a statistical figure of over 3,000 individual disputes resolved and about 40 resolved collective disputes to be sufficient reason for one such agency to exist. Mr. Minister, we had to hear from you in the opening statement which are the most important cases this agency has solved in the previous period. I think about cases where we're talking collective bargaining. Mr. Minister, at this session, among other things, the bill on reducing the number of employees in both the state administration and the administration at the local level raises one logical question - will the officials who are going to lose their jobs be able to address the Labour Dispute Resolution Agency, or who will calm the Government of the Republic of Serbia and those officers who are going to lose their jobs under that law? The question arises, to which we have to get an answer, what is illegal under the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when we talk about the law on the reduction of the number of employees in the Republic administration and administration at local level, or whether it is illegal for the official to be fired because, according to the bill, he is in better shape than another official. Is property enough reason for an officer to start a dispute before the Peace Dispute Resolution Agency? Also, all the answers we expected from you, Mr. Minister, we couldn't even find on the Agency's website to settle disputes. That website is extremely poor when we talk about information. On this site, we can find the most frequently asked questions to the Agency, and in the opening statement, we heard from you that some of these issues will be resolved through amendments, but we would like you to answer specifically what these amendments are, or what are these problems? I'm just going to tell you some problems that this agency didn't deal with, because it had no legal authority. This concerns the question – if the company owes 15 earnings and a bankruptcy procedure is launched. The Agency's answer is that this is where the Solidarity Fund is responsible. What happens if the worker's severance is not paid? What happens if a long-term worker has not been paid any wages for all the time of his illness? What happens if the worker is not paid for a hot meal and a regress? These are all questions that we can find on this agency's website as questions that this agency has never affected before, or has not solved, and we haven't received an answer from you either. When we talk about the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the applicant of this bill, we must also talk about the Government of the Republic of Serbia as one of the largest employers in the Republic of Serbia. The question arises – what kind of government are you, or what kind of employer are you if you are now making a media campaign against your employees, that is, against your employees and accusing them of all the effects of the economic crisis? We witnessed that the Serbian government campaigned for the first year against its employer, i.e. against the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and is now campaigning against its employees. Finally, I would like to say that the LDP's position is that no law, no agency can solve the problems of the Republic of Serbia, I am talking about economic problems, because the socio-economic rights of citizens so far have been on paper only, and in real life there is very little. We must systematically reform the state and hope that in the next period we will have a decisive impact on that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30169	The word has a folk MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic, with an apology for misaccountation in previous readings. After that, the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30170	The debate on the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes inspired me as SNS MPs to speak, in principle, of the way the law was passed in this assembly back almost a decade. If I have to narrow down the understanding of this law in one sentence, and not agree to your order to speak on the given subject as you have defined, but to put problems in some real, real time frame, what they mean for the citizens of Serbia, then I could say that the way in which the government, in various variants, is from 2000 to today, making laws is actually one lasting attempt to marginalise the influence of the state, the state as a nation that still exists, not only in these areas, but in the world, and trying to take the authority of the state and decide matters of importance for the lives of citizens, for which it is both responsible, and competent and paid, left to transnational organisations, multinational companies, NGOs, NGOs. In this case, it is often repeated, too, that decision on the competences of the State agencies which assume the powers that are otherwise defined as the work of the Authority within the Government as an executive body is left to be decided. Or, in this particular case, it is a matter of transferring part of the case from the judicial authority to something called the direct influence of the executive authority through the Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes. I want, for the sake of the citizens, to awaken my critical awareness of whether they feel how much the state is pushing out of what is defined by her job and how much of these powers are left to whoever tries to be in charge of it. The way these changes are proposed and complemented in fact speaks very illustratingly of the way the laws are proposed and passed here. A mixture of haste, poor copying and scarce knowledge, you haven't seen the signs of a quote, but I'm going to say that there are signs of a quote in this sentence, is actually something that is our reality. One of the lawyers, whom I would not like to advertise, literally says that she has released in our system the rooting of practices that are in fact a mixture of haste, poor copying and scarce knowledge. We're served here by 50 laws in one session, and we're witnessing what haste means. Looking at the watch of those who hold the session and those who count on how much time the parliamentary group, the authorised representatives, speaks of the urgency being present and as a physical notion, to end as much debate as possible in a unit of time, or to adopt as many laws as possible, but also the haste not to get to know the public in detail about the legal proposals that are being adopted here. I just can't agree to your fraud and I want to warn the citizens. I have the strength to work; it is not irresponsible, when you are an MP, and to cancel the meeting you scheduled at 14 o'clock, for example, at the time of the regular debate, but it is not right for the job of the minister and his associates, but for the fourth time in the last two weeks, to assume the job, the responsibility and importance of the MPs, where even the regular break, defined by the Rules of Procedure, is regulated according to the duties of the Minister, and there is no longer a definition of time. So when you hold a meeting and you are irresponsible, because as head of a parliamentary group or member of a committee you have scheduled a meeting with someone to talk to on a serious subject, not on a private topic, it is no longer important, because here the chairman tells you – the debate will take place on this agenda point, eventually with those who are registered for discussion, then we will give a break, and then we will finish work when the next item comes to the agenda. So the story of predictability is a regulatory story when we talk about Europe. The story of predictability of conditions for investing foreign partners is a story for foreign partners, but the story of predictability of the working day of those who need to pass laws, to be familiar with them, to give you reasonable objections, it is simply as if we have no right to be on one level, even though we are participants in one and the same process. I'm not warning you, you're taking care of your political rating, each party individually. However, you cannot stand for predictability when you call on strategic partners, when you state the values we stand for as the EU, and that you deny this predictability to one branch of government and specifically defined and here present people. What else does the law-making experience tell us? That many of the laws proposed here are, in fact, the result of the excessive ambition of the current minister to remain behind him a law that he will be able to say was passed during his reign; that they are very often a reflection of the political debauchery of a party represented by a minister, but also of an unskilled hatred of world experiences, where our experiences, traditions and ways of accepting certain laws are ignored. I'm not going to illustrate the examples of a recent debate in this assembly whose law is inherited, who is more responsible. If the law is good, guilt is usually avoided by all and no one will accept that it is guilty when a law is misapplicated. Even when you have some good proposal to amend the law that is in force, the current minister says – well, you know, I wouldn't change it because it was passed during that government and that minister did it. But only in case he estimates it to be politically useful or harmful to him. So the basic measure being handled by the promoters, i.e. the Government, as the sole legislator of the law in this assembly, which we are witnesses, is the political benefit of the proposings being listed in the list of those whose rule has been passed a certain law, and whether it is enforceable, inconclusive, anti-constitutional, it is absolutely not important. The illustration of last week, when we discussed land expropriation to set up gas installations, or what we call a gas arrangement, says that in February 2009 we discussed amendments and additions to the Expropriation Act in this composition and that they were adopted because of political depravity, because of the adoption of a shortcut, because of the incentive and urgency, the provisions that were mutually opposed in the first members, one of which is contrary, because it says that the government can regulate the way of expropriation, or that it determines the general interest, and the Constitution prohibits any other act of law from doing so except by law, means, in the National Assembly. If it hadn't been for that speed and it wasn't for that, I could say freely – the surface, because it's not too harsh a word, but an illustration of behavior, we wouldn't have come into a situation last week to discuss a very important project, to question it, just because its realization depends on the application of the law that was passed with the fellers, mistakes and inability to implement it. What is another illustration of the way we bring laws here, is that many of these remarks that I have spoken about and illustrated could practically be discovered, eliminated, that there is no one extraordinary will for the power to be illustrated through the performance – only I am right, when I am the power alone. By failing to adopt amendments, eliminating what is called a practical difficulty in applying the law tomorrow, which we point to in good time, is simply being ignored, as if there was an intention to not apply the law at all. How can this be illustrated? We came to a terrible situation that, for example, the Law on Public Information last week was subject to questions even by Vice-President of Mrs. Gordana Comic's Assembly, who called on public information funds to ask if it was possible for anyone not to apply the law because such an announcement was in the press. I would like to inform you that what was written in the paper was given through information in the ministries of justice, culture, prosecution and courts, where, in fact, one of the denials was made so resolutely and so inconclusive that it is usually done when the act that we want to conceal is behind it. They explained that it was an attempt to even the practice of applying the Information Act, and it was only said that the ministries, so as government authorities, as executive branches of the government, gave a recommendation for which the views had not yet been agreed, so some high-level meeting (e.g., no one contests that it was a meeting), but they agree with the recommendations whether or not to implement the law. There's no denying the deal, but it's denied that there was that kind of pressure. My people, executive, judicial and legislative authorities, are three branches that must be divided. There can't be a judicial and executive agreement on anything at all. The law applies or does not apply. It can't be applied selectively, partially, to someone, sometimes, how it fits. That is why I am returning to the way the law is proposed, motivated by the political benefit or the harm of whoever is proposing it. And not only in the proposal, we are witnessing that even in the application of the law, those who are obliged not to interfere, do not make recommendations, exert direct pressure and influence on that other branch of government, practically showing the will for power motivated by political benefit. I think it's clear in this country that the Supreme Court can make principled views on the application of the law, but no one can make recommendations. On the pressure on the court, related to bankruptcy, and on the parliamentary issue of Prime Minister Tomislav Nikolic, I will speak when it comes to the law on bankruptcy; I have a direct illustration of the issue of impact on the Trade Court in connection with the bankruptcy and unsuspecting response of the government, or the ministry, which it says - we asked, and we made a recommendation. So it's not about an isolated incident of recommendation, agreement and arrangement. It's about the practice we find out about, and how many influences we never know about, it's the question. There couldn't be any help from statistics, only damaged cases. These aren't precedents. I purposely speak about this Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, or a proposal on Amendments and Supplements, because in the case of individual rights brought into question you cannot find surrogates for justice, you cannot find surrogates of the bodies that decide on this justice. I really don't think that the modernization we justify savings is a good enough reason for us to continue this practice. You haven't even tried to convince me as an MP that you have reason to continue this practice. Did a report come up for the implementation of this law from its present realization, apart from the figures presented by the colleague, what is the satisfaction of the damaged parties with peaceful dispute resolution, which are the results of the work and the application of this law? So, is there some kind of poll, like the one you're asking how many citizens are convinced that economic activity is going to grow, that it's going to live better, that it's going to travel etc? You don't have the resources. Don't you have any money? No one's getting involved in this. Many things remain in the budget in the summary paragraphs, through the possibility of using money, but you have not convinced us here that this practice has led to an analysis that could show what the most common reasons for working disputes are, individually speaking, and whether amendments to legal regulations could in any way limit the self-will of directors, the behaviour of workers, through warning and preventive measures, that such violations of laws that lead to litigation occur less. So any law through application must lead to some practice that requires guidelines to improve the law, improve the work of organs or the like. That's the result of the law I don't see. On the contrary, at this same session, we are discussing the determination of the maximum number of employees at the level of the republican administration and local self-government, and there we have even a kind of unconstitutional legal uncertainty, where when handing over the document (I will not even call it a solution) about the insufficient assessment of the employee, which was made in just a month, the employee gets a paper on which there is no right to appeal, where the term is used – the finality of the solution. You in the government know perfectly well, I guess they're informing you, how much damage the state is for illegally getting fired, from the National Bank in 2000 to the Tax Administration in 2004, where hundreds of millions of dinars are being paid to workers who were illegally fired. Is the solution provided for by this law which has not yet been adopted in fact by an attempt to resolve work disputes peacefully, even in this case, avoid court proceedings and damages that the government would have for quite undefined or almost undefined criteria in this law on how someone can be fired. Do you think, gentlemen, that someone who goes to a peaceful work dispute settlement will be managed by the one who does not cut the head of the bend? Is this supposed to become the manner of this society – that man is not seeking his own justice, but that he bends his head and shuts his mouth, because that's how he will survive in the workplace, at work and in society at all? Does a bent head just mean to correct your head and to save your life or does it mean to keep your own opinion, professional integrity and spine, which is of bone and suited to a man, and is not, in a portable sense, flexible, of plastic or rubber? When these laws are passed, are you thinking about building an approach – tolerance in laws, compromises in advertising, and in real life raising tensions to such proportions that the authorities that should promote tolerance and compromise actually promote hatred? When they get it increased as a snowball moving down the slope they wonder who is the cause of intolerance, violence and the absence of conversations in which the two sides talk. When you propose law, when you don't adopt amendments to the opposition, you talk to yourself. You're not talking to the other side, and you're trying to teach someone to compromise and settle their work dispute peacefully, in a way where they've been damaged by some law-defined law. The largest number of trade unions has developed a system of bribery, literal and transferable terms - privileges, i.e. bribery by seizing various types of courtship, attitudes, giving rights to the public, publishing texts, etc. But for individuals who are not themselves of any power, this is simply some kind of coercion. By virtue of the bankruptcy law, I will explain more widely what is meant by the damage of the individual for the salary, for the right, for the unrelated work experience, etc. You can't talk about the fact that someone has to be able to connect work experience by having the state bear the cost of what the company didn't pay, and it was supposed to be mandatory by law, and at the same time you're arresting, it doesn't matter who, the one owner of the list, because he didn't pay the tax. What are the double standards here? It is not for someone who exercises authority to act as an unsolicited pop who says, "Don't look at me for what I do, but listen to what I say to you, so behave according to the way I command you to do." So, in principle, these laws that oust the jurisdiction of the state from the court to the Agency cannot be supported. Not only because it is a world practice, and modern, but because you are doing judicial reform in a completely wrong way, where courts become directly controlled by what you call a judicial academy, and I call, with the right, a judicial agency, because even in the law on it it is stated that it will work in accordance with the Law on Public Agencyes. Citizens must understand that all the bodies you call institutions, bodies and organisations, when they have such direct authority as the executive body, are under your direct influence and influence and they are not brought and will not be in the interest of citizens. I hope it won't hurt either, but I'm asking you to take these general remarks, which are going to come up against this people's heads and all of us in the long run, not just in this law, but in general when you're proposing laws, when you're proposing the agenda, when you're forcing us to work on your agenda, and everything supposedly on behalf of the responsibility that you're willing to take. You know, there is one responsibility, which is – in modern society, every man takes responsibility for himself and for his actions. If we want to be a mature society, let people have the option of choice and be truly mature people who decide their rights in a way that is the achievement of the modern state, but it is not a loss of the traditional properties of state bodies, including the state itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30171	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. The word is Mr. Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30172	Dear President, Mr Minister, I have until the previous discussion been convinced that MPs have the necessary knowledge of mediation as a concept, of the introduction of mediation into our legal system, of the importance and role of mediation that it has in developed legal systems and of the extraordinary results that the way of peaceful settlement, the agreed settlement of disputes between the conflicted parties gives. Since that is not the case, for the sake of the public, I will say that, primarily thanks to the great involvement of former Serbian Supreme Court President Leposava Karamarkovic, a series of seminars, round tables and debates on the issue of the introduction of mediation, i.e. the peaceful resolution of all disputes, are in our legal system. This resulted in the introduction of mediation into our legal system. We now have a special law dealing with only labour disputes. For the public here, it is necessary to say that in civil litigation, for example, in the United States over 90% of all disputes are resolved through a party agreement, or through mediation, and that the extraordinary results of mediation in Japan, China and many regulated legal systems. Analysis shows that the largest number of disputes are resolved by mediation. What does mediation mean for our ordinary citizen? This means, here, I'll stick to a working-law dispute – a worker who, for example, runs a dispute for unpaid earnings, of course, has no funds and needs first to go to a lawyer, and the legal advice is charged, every lawsuit is charged, charges for a lawsuit are charged, every hearing is charged, an art fees are charged. Often and with judicial judgments in favour of workers, there is no property from where a worker can charge for what his court is in a long-term procedure... Here, we have information that labor disputes last for three and more years on average; and after such torture, for a few years you haven't received a profit, for three years you've been tried, you have a verdict, but you can't charge it. Second, a peaceful dispute resolution involves a mental discharge and prevention of harassment. On the one hand, the worker is harassed by an employer or cannot exercise one's right under the law, and then must be harassed in proving his right, which is most often undeniable to him. As for what we've seen in our court practice in the last 20 years, for a time, especially at the time of self-government socialism, it was impossible for a worker to lose some work dispute. It was another extreme, and indeed often in the most serious violations of labour obligations, workers succeeded, because this was the way the legal system was adopted, so that they could exercise their rights before the court. Now we have another situation. Of course, neither this law nor this ministry, which does its job properly and faces many inherited problems daily, for the time being, and Minister Ljajic, seems to be doing his job very correctly... We cannot expect one law and one ministry to solve this broad area and the problem of working-law relations in one term. The very fact that in 2004, the Law on the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes was a major advance in comparison with the fact that we had never had such a law before. This law is a major step towards a previous solution. As a representative of the SPO and the right-hand side of the SES list, I will present some dilemmas about some solutions myself. I see that there is a mood with the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to accept a very constructive amendment, which is a good indicator that this is not a party issue, but that it is a much wider issue. We, from the Serbian Renewal Movement, can only express our satisfaction over this kind of approach to this ministry. The advantages provided by this law are: disbursement of the work of courts, which are thus overrun by court cases; establishing social dialogue as a way to overcome problems; avoiding strikes; speed and efficiency of proceedings; free of charge; impartiality of proceedings; time saving, money saving, etc. This ministry came out with two good laws in two days before the MPs. One is the law on gender equality, and the other is the law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes. Of course, we who follow the work of the ministries know that there is a law on the prevention of mobbing, that is, harassment of employees at work. Today in Serbia, in conditions where workers seem to be, with farmers, the biggest losers in transition, we have different behaviours of people who have become owners of businesses in the privatisation process. We have extraordinary examples of very correct behaviour of employers towards employees, we have examples of successful privatisations, but unfortunately, it dominates what is bad. Examples of poor privatization and bad relations of non-gentlemen employers are dominated by examples of non-gentlemen employers, are not the employers of the Western type as we want to see us from the SPO, but, above all, the recent ones, who often legalized suspiciously acquired capital in the privatisation process, and the abuse of employees are indeed countless. That is why the law on preventing mobbing at work is one of the laws that needs to be found in the congregation procedure as soon as possible. What also further disturbs the public, along with indicators to say more than 60% of employees, suffers from job losses by polling, it is an announcement that maybe that year's retirement trip will increase further. Our reactions from the Serbian Renewal Movement are identical. We think we should keep the current solution. Yesterday we talked about the gender equality law. Based on numerous surveys, a modern-day woman's photoslave was created in Serbia. In short, it says that a modern woman gets up around seven o'clock in the morning, takes her children to kindergarten, then rushes to work, which she is not happy with because she is less paid than a colleague who does what she does. After work, he goes back to the nursery, comes to the store and has bags full of bags in one and the child in the other hand comes home. She's in a hurry to make lunch, fix the house, wash the dishes, wash the laundry, welcome the husband who expects her to be the husband, the mother, to raise the child well, to take care of the house, to bring the money, to look good, etc. How many not only are women, but also employees who go to work, not receiving earnings, unable to exercise basic rights from their working relationship? It's a big number. That is why, given that many good solutions are contained in these amendments to the law, that the circle of rights that can be achieved by peaceful means is being extended, that amendments that this extended circle further extends will be accepted, and I will present some doubts. Let's just say we didn't get a reason why Article 34 was deleted in connection with the involvement of an expert and the exception of a court expert. In my great practice of dealing with the courts only once I met a judge (who did not have the legal authority to do so, who did so in agreement with the parties), who knew that he was counting interest rates etc., above all in disputes of financial nature. The parties often checked it out with court-laws. Turns out this judge, out of some of his love for mathematics, actuarial mathematics, really knew how to do his job. The court's experts are engaged in jobs for which the court has no expertise. From the mediators, from the arbitarians, who are normally people with a passed judicial exam, meaning, graduate lawyers, we can't expect them to know finance and actuarial mathematics. We expect an explanation, I'm not saying that there is a bad intention, but I simply don't understand how the judge, to the right extent, expected by the conflicted parties, will be able to present to the parties precise data on the amounts of claims, interest rates, etc., so that no party in the process of calming will be dissatisfied. As regards the proposal for the Agency's director to initiate a procedure for eradicating peacemakers and arbitarians from the directory and to make that decision, Jovan Hadzic, our great legislator, was based on three basic assumptions: first of all, what are the social circumstances to be applied to, what is the mentality of the people and what are the general opportunities that the existing situation needs with the laws to improve. We live in a time when abuses are present at every step and when citizens, except the Army of Serbia, the SPC and several other institutions, do not trust fully and sufficiently in the institutions of the system precisely because many who are expected not to abuse trust do so. That's why I think this solution might... We also heard the argument for, that the director is the most responsible for the Agency's business, that he himself should evaluate etc. According to us, there may be an abuse in that part and you need to hear the argument for or against. I'm not hard at this point, but I'd like to hear the argument for and against. I also think that only the adoption of the Law on the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes is a major improvement in our legal system, that all the principles on which amendments and additions to the Law on the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes are based are good, that they are well-intentioned. The Serbian Renewal Movement and Serbian Renewal Movement MPs from the list For Europe's Serbia will surely support changes and additions in the day for the vote, and we expect the ministries to have the dilemmas I raised in their discussion during the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30173	Thank you, Mr. Chiquiriz. The word has been given by the People's MP, Mr. Zoran Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30174	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we are facing an amendment to the Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes. It is not disputed that all parliamentary groups, i.e. all MPs who have participated in the discussion so far (I see no reason not to be so later) agreed that this law, which was passed in 2004, was the right answer to the accumulated problems we had in the domestic economy and in the relations between employees, on the one hand, and employers, on the other hand. So the figures also say: 3,600 individual disputes, 44 collective disputes that have been resolved in this way, indicating the need for the existence of this law and the good result of this law. These changes that have been made today and the amendments that, among other things, the Democratic Party of Serbia (I was under the impression that you have seriously considered these amendments and that you will accept them) are in the direction of improving this law, in the sense that this law works more effectively in this area. However, what is very important to point out, what is the key to this problem is that, above all, the state in this process must be responsible. It has been and has been in certain cases, but shows exceptional irresponsibility when it comes to individual tickening processes. I'll give you an example. I'm an emissary who comes from Capca. In Šapac, a large holding company, Zorka Holding, was a chemical industry, which is through a specific form of privatisation (supply of holding, property, etc.). now in a very difficult situation. Today, we have a protest of 870 workers from Zorka Dwarf, who have court rulings that their employer, i.e. the former owner, has remained in debt for 16 salaries. The vast majority, over 800 workers, have court rulings to owe them. The Zorka Djibriva company has been leased for a long time; it was privatised in August this year. Now we come to the point of whether the state is responsible or irresponsible. In this case, she was extremely irresponsible. The company has been sold, although the buyer has not yet paid off his contractual obligation, as a decision by the Antimonopoly Commission is awaiting. Believe me, there's still a growing suspicion; I don't understand why the Antimonopoly Commission would have any business here, because the imports of fertilisers are free. It is not the only plant that is involved in the production of mineral fertilisers in Serbia, there are several more, so I see no reason why the Anti-Monopoly Commission would be asked at all. What's important is, the company's been sold, and the mobile and immovable property has been sold to that company, and I'm not going to mention the name now, but they haven't sold the obligations the company has to the employees. On the basis of these obligations, workers have sued the company, have court rulings and the privatisation agency goes over it. What's bad about Shabac and when it's generally "Zorka Holding" it's my opinion, is that it's been a big mix of local self-government since 2000, which is wanted to strengthen some local, regional, if you want republican, businessmen, so it hasn't even gone to international tenders, even though it's a Zorka Holding firm by its technology, tradition and opportunities. So, it went to the company's dismemberment. Among other things, a large part of the company was taken over by the town of Sabac, according to an estimated six million dinar asset agency, and it is now attached to the free zone formed this year. It's probably the community's ambition to build a respectable free zone. It's all right, but, look at the wonders, about six million euros is owed to workers. So if the town of Sabac can protect its interests and protect its interests, I think it's mandatory, if the leadership is already taking over the role of mediators, then it was logical to protect the rights of these workers. Now I ask you a question – what are we going to do in that case? What do you do in a specific case with 870 workers? Mr. Chikiriz mentioned that there are cases like this throughout Serbia, but I mention this one specifically. How will we resolve this case, and how will righteous compensation be made to the people who have earned this money? What's the state planning to do about it? Under this law, it is hardly possible to do anything, in fact, I doubt it, but it is not the law, nor the good intentions of those who enforce this law, but the irresponsibility of the state authorities that brought these employees into this situation. I'm really interested, and I'd like you as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, because these are now people with serious social problems, to give me an answer as to what might be done here. Here, I publicly call on the Committee on Industry and the Committee on Social Affairs to be called here, right in Sapac, regarding the problem of 870 workers. I hope that when that committee is called, or those committees, you will receive a call and that you will respond and come to the Sabbath. They repeat once again, if the Anti-Monopoly Commission's opinion is asked whether there is a monopoly on the production of fertilisers or I don't know what, I just want to once again open one question and inform the public, especially the agricultural producers, of a magic regulation brought by the Ministry of Agriculture, although it is not responsible for that, which is that when imports of mineral fertilisers in this year are allowed to increase the radioactivity of mineral fertilizer - from 500 bekerels to 10,000 bekerella. So the values that are 20 times higher! The regulation disappeared from the Ministry of Agriculture site, but de facto, on 14 August, came out in the "Official Messenger" so that mineral fertilisers can be imported with 20 times more radioactivity. There's obviously some interests there. These interests are not in the interest of farmers because if such manure is thrown in this year on land, it will not impregnate land and not contribute to a better generation, but rather, it will make the land contaminated. It's one serious industrial branch, where the monopoly is gone, but obviously there's a lot of money. It's not fair, and it's not fair to break everything over 870 workers at Zorka Dvorivo. The state is on the move from long-term irresponsible positioning towards employees to try to find one solution that will satisfy, among other things, employees of Zorka Holding. We're talking about the responsibility and irresponsibility of the state. I do not believe that this state is responsible and that this government is actually responsible, in fact, I consider it the most irresponsible institution in this country. The evidence is indeed in the past, and it is no wonder that, unfortunately, strikes happening in Serbia with radical moves by people who do not see the alternative and who cannot come to justice. One of the crowning evidence of the government's irresponsibility is the implementation of the 2009 budget. As you know, and you may not know, but you were probably informed, we filed a request in early October for the Ministry of Finance to give us data on budget implementation. Based on the presentation Mrs Dragutinovic signed, we saw that the budget on September 30th was exceeded by 3,733,000 dinars, i.e. 5.3% of the allowed amount provided for by the Budget System Act. When a finance minister acts like this, the prime minister, the government, when he publicly gives a memo that it is conscious, perhaps unconscious, but in the end, I don't know what to call it, but it certainly broke the Budgetary System Act, the most important law that regulates the government's work, then the expectations of that government are very low. So, I propose, with this end, that the Committee on Industry, the Committee on Social Affairs be convened in the shortest period of time, right in Šapec, to see how we can resolve the problem of 870 workers who are, neither guilty nor in debt, and with judicial executive judgments, remain deprived of their salaries and their income, so that we do not make social cases out of them. I insist on that because I believe that the local self-government, which has made this whole problem, is one of the most responsible institutions, so certainly participation and the activities of the Assembly committees could have been crucial. Once again, I expect you to come to that session at the invitation of the Committee on Industry and the Committee on Social Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30175	Mr. Sreto Peric has the word. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30176	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, a peaceful dispute settlement, that really sounds wonderful. A man should have little brain problems if he was to dispute the fact that a number of colleagues said it was good to try to settle work disputes peacefully. This is not at all controversial, and we in the SRS are not going in this direction to explain the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Peace settlement of Work Disputes, although one serious question can be asked strictly. We had the previous day of the draft law on a single voter's list and we see that, absolutely from the jurisdiction of earlier courts, certain actions are exempt, related to the exercise of electoral law. Here is now an attempt to remove work disputes from the justice system and set up a peaceful dispute resolution agency. That, truth be told, does not make this minister and this ministry, but was done in 2004, with the application of this law since 2005. Mr. Minister, you're one of the ministers in the government who may have the greatest responsibility at this point, along with the Minister of Health for a specific situation right now, the finance minister. Indeed, you have a delicate and big job and a duty ahead of you. In my discussion, I'm going to suggest that you try to get rid of some of the jobs that you normally do, not as Minister of Labour and Social Policy, so that as much time as possible to do these others. When we talk about amendments and additions to the Law on Peaceful Work Dispute Resolution, we need to see which platform Serbian citizens are on now. It is inevitable to state the fact that at this point we have about 1,800,000 employees (I do not suffer from my data being very precise, accurate, in one or a dozen employees, although I am happy when each individual is employed, both me and every member of the SRS), with a tendency to constantly reduce the number of employees. Furthermore, about 650,000 workers work on black, 150,000 employees do not receive regular salaries. About 200,000 children live in poverty, 150,000 children are malnourished, these are data that are certainly familiar to you; 365,000 children benefit from child benefits, which at this point are symbolic, given their needs and what their parents as employees or unemployed citizens of this country have the opportunity to accept. In more than 59 municipalities in Serbia, people's cuisines work, and there is a tendency and a real need to open them into more municipalities. What's the big problem in Serbia? This law cannot give an expected solution. Mr. Chikiriz said that in the United States about 90% of all disputes are resolved by arbitration. There are some other relationships, some other conditions, and maybe that's what certain results are. We have slow employment, there's a huge difference between the poor and the rich, and when we have that fact in mind, the peaceful resolution of work disputes cannot give the expected results. We have another problem, and nearly every SRS MP insists that the law adopted in this parliament be taken seriously, to be raised to one level to the needs of Serbian citizens. We don't have a situation like that. We have an open statement from a minister, and it's called politics or populism: "I've learned to hire, I won't fire," which he allegedly sent a message when he was preparing a law on the restriction of the number of employees in the republican administration. When the minister sends such a message to the citizens, the laws passed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia cease to be obligations for its citizens. We do not advocate that laws are not applied, on the contrary, and those we do not vote on and those we make serious objections and arguments and try to make amendment solutions more quality and in practice more applicable, because that is the meaning of law-making. We had a situation where, in the previous years and in the year when the global economic crisis occurred, we have been strengthened by the financial sector, the banking sector, the insurance sector, financial leases and voluntary insurance funds, and the real sector loses its importance from day to day and has no real support from this government. We have recently had one situation, the data are well known to the general public in Serbia, that the Centre for Strand Cereals in Kragujevac, which has 59 employees, of which five doctors of science, are two masters, two doctors and eight workers with high professional training... It is the oldest centre in the Balkans, which has been in existence for 111 years, and 89 types of latrine grains have been recognised. Three new species should soon be recognized. To point to their existence and to quite real problems, which they cannot solve on their own, and local self-government is not ready or perhaps not at this moment in an opportunity to help them, they symbolically burned their diplomas, scientific calls and books from which they learned, because they do not have the means to pay for the phone, and they have a number of other problems. Our serious resource, which every government and every serious and modern society must count on, is science anyway. If we have such a relationship with one institution where the highest number of employees is involved in scientific work, what can we expect in some others where a lower level of knowledge and expertise is involved in performing certain tasks? Then we certainly can't expect any more serious help from the state. It seems to me, Minister, that yesterday's bill of law was much easier for you than it is today. True, the Constitution guarantees gender equality. We do not claim that there are no abuses in practice, but we also have positive regulations that sanctioned the violation of the constitutional rights of certain persons and only insist that the law be implemented. But the issues in the field of employment, and it's not just a matter of whether personal income is paid, it's a problem, and people have been waiting for work for years, with a small chance and a small chance of being employed... You've been spending a lot of time lately, Mr. Minister, going through really difficult and painful cases; in the last village, the last house, where people don't have the means for minimum, basic hygiene conditions... But it is my suggestion, to say the same, because you belong to one profession where you are a humanist – send Meha Omerovica, send Bajr Šehovica, send someone else to take that television, and you are a little more concerned with the problems of hundreds of thousands of people in Serbia who are jobless. So, I'm not saying you shouldn't do what you do, but Mrs. Snow White can go and do the job, and you're dealing with these problems. Mr Nikolic pointed to problems in Sapac, and such problems are countless across Serbia, such as recent problems with employees at Future Plus, where about 3.150 employees have not been receiving salaries for several months; without basic conditions for work, because they are excluded from electricity in around 1.150 facilities; they hold 22% of the market in the distribution of the press. It's just some of the cases, and there's a lot of them. You have seen the way in the New Market in the “Raška” textile combination employees had to draw attention to themselves. It's something that's inadmissible. We have to keep that in mind, and if that happens to us on the other side, then the attempt to settle the disputes remains in the shadows, it's certainly darkened and small compared to this. The Serbian Radical Party, and it seems to me that there was room for you as Minister of Labour and Social Policy, submitted in April a request to the president of the Assembly to form a polling committee to determine the facts regarding the purchase of the Uste Business Centre and the construction of a multi-functional Uste Centre in New Belgrade. At the time of the construction work, you could put on that yellow helmet, go there and see if all the preconditions for carrying out these works were met, and if not, to inform other state authorities before doing what we have today, so that they could intervene. These are just some of the things that you have to take maximum participation in. I'm not saying, and I don't expect you to be able to solve it, but together with others, that should work out. What's the big deal? We cannot expect a peaceful settlement of work disputes to lead to the end of this problem. "Great Brother," as mayor of Belgrade, went to one elementary school; there was a problem, there were certain children to be separated, and some to go to one elementary school, others to go to another. Dad arrived and said – no, the city will allocate funds, you will continue to go to the same school together. That's good, but what about those schools in New Market? What about those schools in Ljubovija, in Arsenovici where only one student was a few years ago? Who's going to go out there and solve this problem? For this government, all Serbia must be equally important and interesting. I am not saying that certain things should not be done in Belgrade, because it is still the capital and must be representative when guests come to us, with what we have, but in no way can we abandon many villages and many small municipalities in Serbia, which certainly cannot solve the problems of citizens who appear with their means. Does it make sense that I'm talking about this law now? We were in the debate when he was proposed for the first time in 2004, he spoke. The establishment of a Peace Resolution Agency is proposed, where the director is said to be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and no conditions are prescribed by law. For peacemakers and arbitration, the same law provides for certain conditions, and that is fine, except that certain conditions should also be laid down for the director. Let me tell you what was the basic urgency when this law was passed – that collective labour disputes are being resolved to avoid strikes, and individual ones were not at that primary moment. They need to be resolved, and when someone says – in five years or, to be precise, in four years and something in total has been resolved 3,600 disputes, it is not a large number when divided by the number of years this agency exists. You didn't even say you were satisfied with the number of solved cases, but what's missing is the fact that we don't have the data that weights are these problems that have been solved. Because most of the time, employees try to settle work disputes with the court when it couldn't have been done in any other way. I'm sure they don't have enough confidence in this peaceful dispute settlement process, because before going to an arbiter or a peacemaker, you need to drain maximum tolerance from both sides. You are here, at least in principle or declaratively, in favour. In the end, I have to give you one more undertone and tell you to leave Serge Brammertz alone. We from the Serbian Radical Party do not dispute that someone should work with him, but at this point, given the problems that exist over the citizens of Serbia, primarily the employee, or, worse still, the unemployed, you have much more obligations in this second part. And I think for a man of that capacity and by the nature of a humane party, you don't have to go into a collection of parties now. In the very end, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I would like to congratulate all Orthodox believers on their baptismal glory of Avrami and, in happiness and health with their family and their guests, to spend their Christian glory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30177	The parliamentary group Forwards Serbia's remaining time is a minute and 26 seconds, and the word could be obtained by Mr Tomislav Nikolic, not in the hall. In that case, the word is Mr. Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30178	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, representatives of the Government today, we are talking about amendments and additions to the Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes. It would be good to remind the citizens of Serbia that the creation of the law has taken place. The previous government intended to establish social dialogue as a method of peaceful settlement of labour disputes, both individual and collective. When it comes to individual labour disputes, then we must say that the regulation provides for problems to be solved primarily by layoffs, i.e. employment contracts and minimum personal income. When it comes to collective disputes, this is primarily about joining unions, changing collective agreements and strike. After that, an institution had to be formed, i.e. The law provided for an institution called the Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes. The agency was an arbitration officer in resolving labour disputes between workers and employers. With the help of the peacemakers, the arbiter and certain principles, the agency has been operational and started to work. These are: the principle of speed - when the Agency detected the problem, when it started to solve this problem, after 30 days it was necessary to make a judicial and executive decision; then, the principle of freeness - neither party had to give any means to resolve this dispute; the principle of impartiality - and both sides agreed on an arbitration panel that would chair the dispute, and the principle of common interest - and the one and the other side kept in mind that they had saved both money and time for this interest. Based on these principles and arbitration, it's been resolved, as we've heard here, and that's what you've repeated, over 3,600 cases, I'm talking about individual disputes, and 44 collective disputes. But the second thing scares us is that the ambience created by the government at this point is actually a stumbling block for the law and for the Agency and that this law will not be able to be implemented in reality, in real life and that the Agency will not be able to function. In addition, it says that these and next years will be the layoffs of a number of workers. In fact, 115,000 workers should be fired, not, as Boris Tadic announced in the election campaign, to employ 200,000 workers. If 200,000 workers had been employed, we certainly wouldn't be talking about this law and this agency today. We brought it here, i.e. The laws are still in the process, the laws on firing workers in the republican administration and the local administration. The worst part is, all these workers don't have a collective contract, they've failed the union, they've failed the social partner, and in that sense, we don't know how they're going to solve all these problems. There are hundreds of examples like this, some of my colleagues mentioned, let's say Zoran Nikolic talked about Sapac, I'll focus on the city I come from, it's Leskovac, one of the poorest cities in Serbia. In fact, you know that Leskovac was once developed a textile base, 12,000 employees in that textile base; now Leskovac has a 35% unemployment rate, since the textile industry has been destroyed. We won't name anyone who destroyed it, however, has a 35% unemployment rate. As a thunderstorm from the clear sky during the campaign, Boris Tadic comes with a strategic partner, and the strategic partner is Cloting, a company with Cyprus, and they open a factory (or else the company deals with lon businesses) that was in bankruptcy, the state subsidises with 2,800,000 euros to boost production. Boris Tadic, in his pompous speech, says it is the revitalisation of the "little Manchester", as was previously called Leskovac, and we were all happy at that time. But after a year, the owner, with all the machines he found, flees Leskovec, with all the money he took from the government, doesn't return. Now there's one question. Since the union, specifically asking you a question, has not signed a collective contract with these workers, these workers simply do not know how to collect claims. It's about nine months' personal income not being paid. That's the question I want you to answer because I have a duty to these people, to those workers who worked at that factory, as I said, it was called "Kloting". I am glad that you have accepted a number of amendments to the Democratic Party of Serbia, because they essentially change the text of the law and improve it. However, what is necessary for Serbia, what is necessary for all of us, is certainly this social dialogue between the government, your resolution ministry and your social partners, the union. I'm going to finish, Mr. Minister, and I have to because I have an obligation, and I need it, because I'm in contact with these people all the time... In fact, you know that there are over 12,600 reserves in Jablani County, and they asked me to ask you when these backlogs will be, when they will receive this social aid, because they have been in negotiations with you for a long time. I also received a parliamentary question, but they are not satisfied with the answer, so they ask you specifically – when will they receive these certain funds, why did they bleed in Kosovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30179	Thank you, Mr. Pejcic. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30180	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, we have before us a very important law that defines the issue of protection of workers and their rights. Namely, the practice we have had these five years since the material law was passed is very bad, because we have not revived the provisions of this law; the institutes provided for by this law are not in office, and especially not the entities that are bearers of peaceful dispute resolution. Why didn't they? Because the government is hopeless. The biggest problems in this period since 2005 concern the privatisation and fate of workers, as well as the entities that entered the bankruptcy process. In particular, since 2008, when officially under the Privatisation Act, the privatisation process has ceased, i.e. all enterprises which did not enter the privatisation process until 31. 12. In 2008, they went into forced liquidation. Then we found an institute that's just a paper institute, and it's a restructuring institute. We have transferred a huge number of companies to restructuring, without being able to bring these companies and these institutions into operation in terms of their resuscitation or their sale. The rights of workers are not cared for by this authority, nor by those in the bankruptcy process, nor by those in the restructuring process, nor by those in the privatisation process. The very fact that we had 3,600 peacefully resolved work disputes suggests that we did not introduce this law into life and that it is like such a dead letter on paper, and it will remain that way. Why? Because the current government does not take measures to protect the state system. As in all areas, we do not have full protection and consistent application of legislation in the work-law area. I will mention and read some of the European Commission's views on this area or related area. In its 2009 opinion, the European Commission says: "The judicial system is the most serious obstacle to attracting foreign investment". It's their finding. "The slowness of the judiciary affects the economic opportunities in the country and many companies go bankrupt because of the inability to collect claims that are undeniable. There is a possibility of collapse of the judicial system." These are the European Commission's views. The justice system in Serbia is one of the slowest in Europe. We currently have 400,000 disputes in court pending an adequate court ruling today. Of that, half is a work-law issue. That clearly speaks of the seriousness of the system. The judicial system is unfortunately burdened by the fact that we have not put into office of an institute called a peaceful settlement of labour disputes. Otherwise, in the whole system, we need a union, collective bargaining and an Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes. The union has no role in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, nor in real life. The union is on the periphery, we just need it when we enter, before certain elections, into so-called. collective bargaining and negotiation, as was before the 11 May 2008 elections when you, ministers, were the bearer of these activities and signed the General collective agreement. You signed the contract annex in November 2008. What happened to that General collective contract? Does anyone in this country, especially you, Minister, know what the fate of that contract is? Neither you know nor knows the power, you've frozen it in a refrigerator with deep freeze somewhere at minus 60 or minus 160. The rights foreseen by the General collective agreement, I will now tell you, according to the 2009 budget, should be – for the state administration of 42,000,000 dinars, for the local self-government of nine million dinars, and for the organisation of compulsory social insurance and other users of 18,000,000 dinars, totalling 69,000,000 dinars. Legally speaking, if anyone who enjoys a certain right, under the provisions of the General collective agreement, were to file a lawsuit, he would exercise his property right. Unfortunately, workers don't do that. That clearly speaks of the inconclusive nature of this government. You signed just to get the election and you won the election. When you were supposed to live up to what you signed in this collective contract, as well as other contracts, you didn't respect it. You're worried about the passivity of the union, the passivity of the citizens and your insecureness. How long can it go like that? How long to sign? How long do you get into your duties? You clearly knew you didn't have the funds in your budget. There are no financial opportunities to pump up adequate funds to pay for everything provided for in the General collective agreement. Then we enter the system of negotiations, agreements, trade unions, economic-social councils and so on, let's stretch out, somehow we'll get out of it. It's a picture. You know that and you participate in it. What she needs to worry about is the general state of the company that went bankrupt. I'm going to mention two companies whose blood count is such that they have to worry, like all those companies that are going to be liquidated. When will she be liquidated? What is the fate of labour rights? What is the fate of this property? It's state property. Who's taking care of that? Minister, you need to get out here and the government has to come out here and clearly state the fate of state property. Do we know what this property is? We don't know. Fifty thousand workers have certain rights based on work in these companies to be liquidated. All rights on that basis are taken over by the state. What does the state do to speed up this process to close it? Why has this been going on for years? These procedures have been going on for years. Here's an example: Janko Lisjak, a restructuring company from Belgrade, entered the privatisation process in 2000. The state has failed to sell a company that has very many properties in Belgrade, in several cities in Serbia. There were 2,700 workers working there by 1990. Until last year, 600 workers worked; currently working, when they entered the restructuring process, that is, this year in the eighth month, 150 workers. The value of the property, estimated by the privatisation agency, is 22.5m euros. That's the value of last year. This government and the Privatisation Agency and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development have failed to sell something of value. Why didn't you? Because there are tycoons who have openly said that they are interested in this company. Then we'll destroy that company, but how? To drive away the workers, to deny them all rights, to bring them to ruin: men do not receive two, three, five months, a year's wages, go forth, and seek bread; for they cannot do so in this company. That's why there are only 150 workers left in this company. If those assets were sold today to sell those assets... Their obligations are about 2m euros, with the value of their assets being 22.5m euros. Why don't you do it? The privatisation agency is probably in the history of the worst institution that ever existed. That's what I'm responsible for. The most criminal in the Serbian system that ever existed. That's what I'm responsible for. They know all this. All structures of government since 2000 have sought a solution through state institutions. Come on, sell us something, let us work. Now we've been in the process since the eighth month of restructuring. The state is seizing. Those workers aren't doing anything. The state allocates funds from such a poor, no budget, pays those workers, who do nothing. No solution is required to start working on these 150 workers that are left to work. The state allocates funds, gives for trouble, instead of selling some of the property and allowing these workers to work. The business is visiting (I talked to them yesterday, as president of the Industry Committee) all state authorities, asking for help and saying it's so simple – only part to sell and we'll settle all the obligations we have to suppliers. There's a state among suppliers. That's two million euros in total, and we have 22 million. To sell it and do it, we've got work to do, we've got a deal and we can set up some deals, just the state won't let us. That's the state and that's the government. It's a similar situation with Zorke, Shabac. As president of the Industry Committee, I was two days ago. Also restructuring, destruction of Zorca. Now there's nothing from Zorka Holding. There are only 60 workers left in the organisational section of the “Mineral fertilizer”, and 870 workers await a certain fate, since they have entered the restructuring process. They were at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, the Privatisation Agency, etc. They're looking for a solution. What solution? What's the solution? Nothing. The erosion and collapse of this company that used to employ 12,000 workers is near the end. The privatisation left only 60 workers. However, these workers will not allow the shale to end this once significant, of national importance, firm, which had its perspective. At this point, there is no perspective, especially not in the privatisation process, because the bagatelised value by which it is sold. The workers ended up at the National Employment Service. I'm taking this opportunity, I've visited them, I've talked to them, on the next Wednesday, at 12:00 p.m., we'll hold a session of the Committee on Industry – I call on the president of the Committee on Social Affairs to go there together, talk about it, and try to solve what can be solved now in these conditions. This is the situation in society, where the greatest responsibility lies with power because it does not take what the law requires it to take. The worst situation is, I say, in bankrupt companies, which are in the restructuring process. There's no real restructuring because there's no means to restructure. But these people need to be told openly – you have no perspective, you are looking for your own. You must do this as soon as possible, not delaying this restructuring process, because you do nothing to help the company live and privatise itself with economic, financial and other measures. Breaking up, without active shops, is a failure, a failure of the Serbian economy, which, even now, lives in these ruins, works and operates – those who work, and these do not work. They don't work, they even receive certain fees, certain minimums by the state, and they don't have any perspective, just because you won't give them perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30181	The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic. The remaining time of the DSS Parliamentary Group is six minutes and fifty seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30182	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary, I can't say hello because he's gone. I'll say hello to the ladies who spent yesterday... In fact, one lady who spent a lot of time with us here yesterday. The law that lies before us is in fact the amendments and additions to the Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, which was adopted in 2004. To remind you, this is the time of the only real social responsible government, it is the time of the first government of Vojislav Kostunica, who, out of being socially responsible, did not make marketing rules, but did what socially responsible governments are doing, which is – she was building social dialogue with trade unions and employees and was very concerned about the rights of employees, which this government has greatly violated. The government then concluded that labour disputes, individual and collective, take an awful long time before courts, and it passed before the MPs the law that regulated the way and procedure of conducting individual and collective disputes. This law has proved well in this five-year practice. I know, I remember when I was an MP, he was welcomed on a knife, that in this country it's not possible. But to do well, it also says that 3,600 collective disputes and 44 individual labour disputes have been resolved in these five years. So it is possible to resolve peacefully. It's much simpler, cheaper and faster. Unfortunately, this incompetent government has completely halted positive economic movements, completely deadened the economy. We now have 63,200 companies, which have about 150,000 employees, who are in a blockade. It's a good part of the government's merit, because not all the companies that are in the middle of blocking it with their own guilt. Some who have become monopolies in this country, which this government strongly supports, have contributed greatly to the blockade of these companies. It is obvious that the government has forced many companies to survive on the market, break the law, or work on the edge of the law itself. Why don't they break the law, if the state officials, and some of us here, praise that, behold, they didn't know they were breaking some law, but they're still going to break it because it's very useful to them. On the other hand, the state is acting as an employer completely irresponsiblely and forcing workers to resort to extreme cases to defend their rights, such as that unfortunate finger cutting. I'll mention one case. I see, MPs mention a lot of cases and it's good to mention them, apparently someone put those cases under the carpet. I will mention the "Planum" company's case, which came on strike yesterday and today because their workers have not received their salary for four months. To remind you of the pictures of our officials, the Prime Minister, the president of the state, visited Serbia at a time when it was important for them to be photographed on a bypass around Belgrade, and this company "Planum" is (these are the workers that were then taken there) hit the job for 800,000 dinars, to build two tunnels on this bypass. Apparently, the 800,000 dinars were at that time 10m euros, and today it is eightm euros, and they cannot exercise their rights. In order to make projects, they had to raise loans to banks, and now they have to return those loans, the time has come. But what these workers and their directors say is the scariest thing, they say – it's the hardest thing that no one ever hears from us anymore because our officials lost every interest in that stock after taking pictures of the cutting tape. So, they don't have to pay the workers, they don't have to get the companies out of the blockades, they don't have to pay their commitments to the banks, it's important that we take the pictures. After that, there must be no more bypasses, to some of the next choices. Of those 800,000, Verica Kalanovic says she will pay 105 in the first half of next year. About that later. This law raises the issue of social dialogue and union status in the negotiations. Here's a simple example of what it looks like. At the beginning of this session, we had before us a law on determining the maximum number of employees in the state administration and a law on determining the maximum number of employees in the local administration. Did the Serbian government happen to negotiate with unions of state administration employees and local administrations? Have they agreed on criteria to be respected when firing workers? Have they agreed on how to help the workers who are fired? Of course, the answer to all these questions is – no. There was no social dialogue. I'm sorry if you may have negotiated, but the unions were here, too, talking to us, saying there was no such agreement and that there was no criterion. So, if this government doesn't build all this which is a matter of trust and civilizational development, first of all, one socially responsible government, how and under what circumstances will we believe that now the law, which we can essentially criticise, and we as the DSS Group have given a certain number of amendments, which I hear will be accepted, which is good, but how can I believe that it is possible that you will apply this law if these elemental things as an employer are not fulfilled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30183	Thank you, Mrs. Vojic-Markovic. The word is Mr. Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30184	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the light of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes, which is now in the assembly procedure as one of the most important reasons, is the very role played in the development of social dialogue, i.e. the method of peaceful settlement of labour disputes, both collective, between trade unions and employers, as well as individual, between individual employees and employers. In Serbia, a country where workers' troubles are getting harder and bigger from day to day, and the number of employees is growing, it is quite ungrateful to speak on the subject, especially given the fact that this type of work dispute resolution was introduced into the country's legal system only in 2005, which in itself means that Serbia is a country yet to be tasked with building its legal practice in this area. It should be noted that the suitable ground for the development of peaceful work dispute resolution is established primarily by one general democratisation of society, especially on this economic plan, which primarily implies free professional education of employees, the development and promotion of collective bargaining and the smooth exercise of strike rights. I would like this opportunity to point out several shortcomings in the existing law. When it comes to the fact that the law provides for a single list of arbitarians, peacemakers, the first question arises: was it ever more consistent that there was a special list of persons who would settle individual work disputes, and especially for peacemakers who would participate in the resolution of collective labour disputes? Namely, in many parallel legal systems, the arbiters are named from the order of graduate lawyers, with experience, and the tranquilizers can also be persons who are not legal professions, but have certain experiences and skills that are acquired through education at various specialist courses and seminars. This is necessary for intervention in the event of a conflict between the employer and the employee organisation. As the biggest problem that we face in the event of calming down and in the course of arbitration, there may be an assessment of the mistrust of the parties in the dispute in the impartiality of the conduct of the arbiter, or of the peacemaker. There's got to be an explanation here right now. It is not about mistrust in the person, persons on the list, but it would be said that there is a systemic problem related to the position of the Agency itself for the peaceful settlement of work disputes. We in the SRS Parliamentary Group specifically point out this, because the fact that the premises of these agencies are located in the government building, as well as the way the Director is elected, which plays a significant role in the proceedings in question, is, of course, the very first view of the absolutely justified doubt of potential participants in the peaceful settlement of work disputes. It also raises the question whether the neutrality of the peacemakers' behaviour, including the arbitration panel, is ensured when a dispute arises between the state as an employer and employees, whether it is trade unions or individuals. We therefore believe that further efforts must be made by the management of the Agency and the arbitration authorities themselves, the peacemakers, in terms of explaining and convincing those interested in the impartiality of the conduct. This could be relatively easy to resolve with certain legislation, that, for example, directors name tripartite trade unions, employers and government, not that the same thing is realised through previous proceedings, which otherwise refer to the selection of arbitarians. In resolving collective labour disputes peacefully through one of the conditions, therefore, the problem that may arise is also a question of union representativeness. You know that this is governed by the provisions of Articles 218 - 220. The labour law. The condition contained in the provision of Article 219 states that the employer's representative union is considered a union that meets the condition of Article 218 of this law and that at least 15% of employees are members of the total number of employers. The representative trade union of the employer is also considered a trade union within the branch, group, subgroup or activity that directly joins at least 15% of the employer's employees. This is exactly what caused the same employer to have two and several representative trade unions, which is in practice the negotiating position of employees. In practice, it often happens that individual trade unions within a particular employer resist the peaceful settlement of labour disputes by mediating the peacemakers for purely competitive and political reasons, not taking account of the interests of their employees, or their members. This has led to the situation, in the event that there are several workers organisations in the same employer, that certain trade union organisations even take a semi-public view that they will not accept the agreements of employers and other trade unions to increase earnings, as the competitive union will achieve a compromise, or acquire new members, given that it is the same initiator of wage increases. There are several other indicators that say that this area is under-edited, thus causing a lot of problems in practice. The very fact that the proceedings before arbitration as the subject of the final legal settlement of the work dispute is one of the newspapers in our legal system is giving particular attention to both employees, trade unions and employers. It can be concluded that the decision on peaceful settlement of labour disputes has attributes of finality and justice, i.e. It is a one-stage procedure, which has caused a lot of public concerns and even a certain skepticism, I would say, with regard to the decision to launch, or to accept the launch by another participant of this process. The problems encountered during the peaceful settlement of work disputes can be practically sorted into these two categories: the problems caused by the legislative uncertainty, i.e. the problems that are purely practical. The problem of non-confidential stakeholders in connection with the launch, i.e. the conduct of the proceedings itself, could be reduced by the legal potential of tripartiteness, which otherwise practically exists in the selection process itself. For example, if certain union organisations were to bear in mind that the arbiters selected by the principle of tripartism, for example, if their headquarters had participated in the selection of all arbitarians, it would probably have been easier for the members of the union organisation concerned to decide to accept participation in the peaceful settlement process and when the driver is an employer and would not have a reluctant position on the matter, which is particularly expressed when it comes to the procedure in the event of cancellation. The same applies only to the employer. Here's a specific example. Article 34 so far. The Law on the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes (whom eradication is now proposed) was prescribed that the Arbitr may hire an artist. Then, by the provisions of Article 14. The law provides that each party in the dispute shall bear its own costs in the proceedings, other than the costs of the peacemaker, or the arbitration officer. So the grammatical interpretation of the standards in question would conclude that one of the parties, the one that makes the proposal to carry out the evidence, must bear costs, for example, skills. It should be borne in mind that there have been cases of financial expertise being necessary. We would like to point out, as the SRS Parliamentary Group, that this formulation of the standard in question could and should be significantly improved when newing the Law on Peaceful Dispute Resolution. That's what we're gonna try to do through the amendments. Another problem is extremely significant, regarding the law we are talking about today, which is a problem of purely legal nature – a misunderstanding that exists in connection with the subsidiary nature of the provisions of the Law on a litigation procedure. Practically, the opinion has been raised that the provisions of this law should only conditionally find their application in the process of peaceful settlement of labour disputes because the very principles of efficiency and economics of the arbitration procedure, while respecting the fact that it is done by means of a voluntary definition of parties, often do not have to, and cannot, apply even the subsidiary provisions of the CAP. Also, there is an indicative and concrete problem that occurred in the execution of the Arbitar's solution in resolving individual work disputes. It is not explicitly stated at the outset that the employer is obliged, in addition to the net earnings, to pay the worker and the total amount of the corresponding contributions. First of all, it was a lack of understanding of the concept of profit by executive courts, and in order to simplify the solution to this problem, it was a practice to introduce in the saying the obligation of the employer to pay and contribute to social security. It may seem unnecessary to someone that, starting from the legal concept of profit, explicitly states the employer's obligation, but the practice we talked about has shown that it is in the interest of the proper execution of the solution, and most often the employee. In the end, I'd like to highlight a few more findings. First of all, it is evident that there is a mistrust of employees in all segments of society. This is one, to say the diagnosis, and the need for "healing" institutions and restoring employee confidence is practically a first-class and urgent task. The problem is that disputes in the working relationship before our courts take three or more years, although it is because of the urgency in resolving labour disputes that Article 195 is Article 3. The labour law prescribed that the dispute before the competent court should be brought to an end within six months of the date on which the dispute was initiated. It should also be noted, for public reasons, that Serbia has accepted the Convention as a member of the Council of Europe, which provides for the right to obtain a court ruling within a reasonable period of time. When a worker succeeds in a dispute before that court, the state is obliged to pay him the amount. That's, of course, the money of all taxpayers. Thus, employees of their own institutional traps have failed to address the problems they have with employers, and in privatised enterprises and in certain enterprises where there is an additional visible lack of work already mentioned by the Privatisation Agency, this is all often and in an inadequate way. At the very end, we find it simply necessary what I pointed out in the opening note, and that is primarily the need to change consciousness in social dialogue. If this does not occur, first of all in the area of the executive government, where it is necessary to ensure a more quality and responsible work of institutions and to remove the causes that led to the marginalisation of the union and in general the situation in which the employees in Serbia are located... Therefore, it is necessary to achieve success in this social dialogue. It's a change that must begin, first of all, from the representatives of the executive government. If this does not happen, it is evident that we will have a series of problems like these most recent ones, which were spoken of in the Sabak "Zorka", in the company "Janko Lisjak", IMT and many other businesses in Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30185	Thank you. The remaining time of the SRS parliamentary group is 23 minutes and 30 seconds, and the word is Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30186	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, it is not clear to me that you have not remembered, or who has prepared this proposal for a law on amendments and amendments, that a legal act must be drawn up so that it is in practice applicable and, on the other hand, to ensure conditions for its execution and to provide for sanctions for those who do not comply with this law. It is not clear why neither in the basic text nor in these amendments or additions there are criminal sanctions for those who violate this law. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for this law is an American hybrid. Why do I say it's an American hybrid? He's taken over from America; our Department of Justice is mostly trying to turn this country into one of the U.S. Governors. We in the SRS believe that such laws cannot be applied, first of all because they have proved in practice that a small number of disputes have been resolved, and on the other hand, they are individual and collective disputes. These disputes are not effective, because tradition and habits in the state of Serbia are not, seen through history, that some peace-making or peace-making institutes, such as this dispute-solving agency... And let me also refer to the Privatisation Agency, which is the largest corruption in the country, because this agency has great powers in the privatisation process, i.e. the director of the Privatisation Agency is appointed and appointed by the government. He makes decisions that have extremely severe consequences for Serbia, which has been shown through history and application. Mr. Minister, this is what someone would say - craftsmanship for a recognizable customer. At the time, a professor at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade said that making the Constitution and the law is a job like tailoring suits – primarily key people in government and government, or only one powermaker among them, an individual, who doesn't know from time to time what he's going to do, according to what kind of constitution he needs hires a man who owns the proper legal and technical capacity to prepare a draft constitution or law by order. We have before us this text of the law. Mr. Minister, he doesn't give the desired results. Our tradition is like this, and our citizens know they're handling disputes before a court of law. What's most tragic is that in these agencies they are named and appointed by people who have neither a judicial exam nor experience in the judiciary, for at least ten years for such functions. Imagine when someone takes the decision to lead the proceedings and that the value of this procedure is 100 million dinars, and now it decides either a peacemaker or an arbiter; that arbiter was never a judge for violations, let alone that he reached the level of the judge of the municipal court, of the district court, of the Supreme Court, etc. This peacemaker or arbiter is equated with members of the Upper House of Lords, who solve the most complex and difficult objects in the legal practice of Great Britain. Our legislators, by the way, can be said, and the good craftsmen of their work, under the assumption, had nothing to risk. Hence, and their work has nothing to be identified by, for, as Russo said and warned himself at the same time, nothing strong, nothing great can come from the feathers that are sold. When you give someone big money to prepare some text, especially if it's donation money, and nobody controls it, and they don't know who took the money for a number of bill proposals and drafts, and they didn't see the light of day, nor did they get to the National Assembly... Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, this law has not completely solved many problems; this is one brochure, and one that is basic and one that is with changes and additions. You tried to fill out those mistakes in article 2. To fill out the legal gap or to use analogy. However, this law does not repair itself either. Secondly, our citizens have no use for that. Mr. Minister, if you didn't know, there are a million unresolved disputes in Serbia today. Who's to blame? It's the government's fault. Why is it the government's fault? The government must raise to a higher level and the degree of responsibility of those who resolve, above all, judicial disputes. It is in the tradition of the Serb people to seek justice before the court and to have appropriate instruments as well as how to exercise its rights, as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia foresees. I'd just like to mention a few things. In the history of every nation, they meet and cross history and law as the most significant areas. In doing so, certain institutions established in an appropriate society, rightly, and in history, reflect the duration, continuity and reality of this society, and their education itself constitutes the basis of society and the basis of state. The right represents and reflects the culture of a people, and the willingness of the legislator to provide as wide a picture as possible, and then effective protection of human freedoms and human rights, is an expression of the maturity and ability of this people and of its state and government. Serbia's constitutional history as a state is very rich and long. Her roots range deep into the Middle Ages. In its history this, at first glance small, state went through interesting periods in which its ups and downs were crossed, flourishing and social collapses, up to the loss and statehood itself in certain periods, as you know. So after the zenith of the Serbian medieval state, the education of the great empire in which the famous Happy Constitution was brought, the monument of Dušan's code... That Happy Constitution... Mr. Minister, you are in the Government, headed by the Prime Minister, Mr. Cvetkovic, who donated five or six days ago to the autonomists of the constitution, as it is on their statute... which, according to me, is equating with the Constitution, when you look at what are the powers of the AP Vojvodina, with 150 new powers that it assumes from the state, robs the Republic of Serbia with powers. So Milos Obrenovic, under pressure in 1835, gave the Serbian people the Happy Constitution. Fortunately, it didn't last long, because the Western forces also supported that this constitution must be put out of force, and it didn't go well. The Serbian state was created, tragic times have come into question in the Serbian people, and its very physical survival itself. Bringing into question the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and its sovereignty. I have experience with autonomists. You remember the yoghurt revolution well, you know that whoever came to Vojvodina couldn't be elected to a certain function unless he was first of all the Duke, as they said, and that he wasn't a local from a certain place, from a certain city. That way neither the judges, nor the D.B.'s chiefs, nor the internal affairs agency operatives could be appointed. It all went through a filter of famous autonomists in the AP Vojvodina. Remember, Mr. Minister, when the Turkish ambassador was killed in the 1970s (I was then working at the Interior Office), did you know that an operative and chief of state security and operatives of the Republic Secretariat couldn't cross Tamish or Dunav to conduct an investigation to discover the killer of the Turkish ambassador? I'm saying this because it's all closely linked to the rights and discrimination that follows. The development of rights and justice is the most reliable mirror of every country's social and political opportunities. That's familiar. In this context, I stress in particular that the judiciary must have its irreplaceable place and a great role. Now I ask the question and ask for an answer – did the Government of the Republic of Serbia provide an independent judiciary and an independent judiciary? I am patient and afraid that the current coalition authority will exercise these days, in the course of this month and next, the lustration of good judges and good prosecutors as bearers of judicial office, only if someone has been denied obedience, or by telephone, or by any letter, or that they have addressed directly, what verdict by order should be made by which judge and what function and indictment should have a public prosecutor when he applies for an investigation or presses charges. What did the Dossage Authority do? To remind you, you promised hills and valleys. The people believed, on October 5th, you took over. The government has ensured that citizens live in different social systems in Serbia. Now let me explain, but listen carefully: all those who have taken power in Serbia and employees in the ministries live in communism. That's what I see, the parties in power, they live in communism, because they're employees of ministries, agencies, directorates, public enterprises. They have their own needs, and they're working towards their capabilities. The most important thing is that they don't even create a dinar of new value. They work in warm offices. Their work space is comfortable and equipped with state-of-the-art furniture and technique. They have a warm meal, past work fees, transportation, receive on time. Which one can do, for five. They are guaranteed to jump to the Kalenić market or others during their working hours. This power is formed on the feudal system, regardless of their expertise, knowledge and honesty. They think that the people chose them to rule in the name of the people and the people. They only chose for themselves to live better in communism, thanks to being members of some political parties. What's the second category, I want to tell you. In Serbia, a small number of citizens live in capitalism, this second class. It is mostly those who allegedly have succeeded in their hard work from zero to make a fortune: Miskovic, Peconi, Kole and others. I'm going to give you an example of the famous Moldovan; did the RK Belgrade bankruptcy manager break up, and is it true that he received 460,400,000 for the conduct of the RK Belgrade bankruptcy? When you share, here I shared with my colleagues Perić and Munjic, for the 460,000,000 dinars, 25,000 pensions per 20,000 dinars could have been paid. This is why I am talking to you and why I claim that certain things in our society must change radically, in a radical way, as we believe from the Serbian Radical Party. It should be said that the communist government has helped them a little. As you know, the wealthy and communist authorities, the first echelon, helped because they wanted to be rich in Serbia and to prove that they are “the flower of thousands of flowers, ” as one Chinese said. It was hard to make rich men overnight, but this government made them without pain and took away their property from the people. Who are the slave owners, or who is this group that lives mostly in slavery? The majority of our citizens live in slavery. They are not called slaves, but citizens with the right to vote, but the government gives them neither bread nor games, but only numerous false promises. Is that correct, Mr. Minister? Yes, the government pledged on October 5th that 6.5 billion dollars would arrive by ships to Belgrade. That's not gonna happen. The people remain naked and barefoot. Are free shares promised, 1,000 euros? They did. Has anyone seen that in Serbia any citizen has received thousands of euros, or a worker, when it comes to labour rights? No, it was just a hoax. A favourable loan from numerous donors and Dinkic's promises and others – the head hurts in Serbia. A white Schengen visa can be tied to a cat's tail, as it should first enable Serbian citizens to earn money to travel abroad. Without it, there isn't. It is now announced that 50 of our citizens will travel on the cost of the state. Now, conduct a survey in Serbia that will put it in your pocket and put a thousand euros in your pocket and travel across the white world. Many, most in Serbia do not have bread to eat. Employment of young people, but it's not gonna happen. They were all false promises. Isn't that right, Mr. Minister? Did I lie to you about something the current government promised? I don't think so. These are promises the government made in the previous election campaign and during this rule, but no promise has been fulfilled. These slaves, which most in Serbia are paying taxes, you see, pay taxes, taxes and other taxes, especially large utility services, public enterprises and state authorities. These slaves have no employment, Mr. Minister, that's true. Do you visit the poor in Serbia? I see you have some knowledge of that. They don't have salaries, they don't have paid past work, they don't have transportation, they don't have a warm meal. These slaves sometimes, sometimes work on black, imagine, it's well known to you, but they don't have paid social and pension insurance. Is this true, Mr. Minister? I think it's true. They are not ready to bear children and expand their family and thus carry out an extended reproduction of slaves. Imagine what can happen one day: those who live in communism and capitalism remain without slaves. I'll explain that to you now. Then who would vote for power if it wasn't for the poor? The slaves need to work, to fill their pockets; it's tragic that the rich cannot live without these slaves, because someone has to work and vote for power, but the most tragic thing is that the government sometimes has to call elections and animated slaves to vote for that power. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, based on my long-standing legal practice, I can tell you that this law proposed is not effective, it does not produce results, nor will it produce results. What's important is that the judiciary is raised to a higher level, to protect every legal holder and not to apply lustration, which is expected and as expected. We have professional people, we don't need American and English advisors to sit around our ministries and write brochures and some of their laws. Serbia has its own tradition, Serbia has a rich legal experience. Many Serbian professors ended up in Sorbonne with tens, as well as the famous Radomir Lukic, who entered the Sorbonne with a spoon and pans and ended up with dozens at the Sorbonne university. In any case, Mr. Minister, we need to take more care of workers, pensioners, farmers. The farmers are maimed. What kind of disability are they, pensions? What about those who have no disability, no pension, and they're left on the street? First of all, it's about people who have 30, 35, 37, 38 years of work experience. You've allowed, gentlemen, individuals from the firm to persecute workers, honest and honest, whenever they want. That's the kind of legislation we've passed. It's all your fault for firing this many workers. Where is the product that can be produced in Serbia? What does the government produce? It produces, above all, the poor, because every day the poor is more and more. There's no hope in this country anymore. This government has no intention of providing a better life for the citizens, which she promised. Therefore, Mr. Minister, we from the Serbian Radical Party cannot agree with the agencies, how they work and how they crippled Serbia's economy. Here's just a few notes. Where in Serbia is corruption now the biggest? In the agencies. Corruption is the largest place where the most discretionary powers are and where there is the most money. The workers have been disfigured. They're free to go to the peace council now. Please, what you've presented as results and what I've collected about peaceful dispute resolution, how much dispute resolution, collective and individual, this is really inappropriate. How many are there and how many are they receiving? Corruption at the Trade Court in Belgrade -- forgotten. What about those who committed so many crimes? Zemun Veterinary Institute "Agroseme" Sremska Mitrovica, "PKB Transport" Kragujevac, sugar export affair, "Yugormedia" Zrenjanin, an affair related to the National Savings Bank, an affair on the sale of "Mobtela", corruption in Customs, the case "Ce Market", the case "Putnika", "Dunav Insurance", "Inex Interexport", "The Slave House of Belgrade"... Please, for this reason, and I remind you that thanks to the law on bankruptcy and thanks to the Privatisation Agency, one bankruptcy manager in Belgrade took 460,000,000 dinars! I'm looking for an answer. Check it out, Mr. Secretary. You're gonna need that. I'll remind you of what they're doing in bankruptcy, and it'll be in bankruptcy law... (President: Mr. Jojic, I would like to inform you that the time foreseen for the discussion of the SRS has expired 20 seconds ago. I'll finish. Thank you very much, but we'll also have time to talk about the bankruptcy law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30187	Thank you for understanding. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the opening of the original search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right under Article 93? Yeah. ) Mr Vladan Batić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30188	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I will support the bill, but I think we have a broad segment of the problem in resolving work disputes that are not covered by this law, and these are about unsuccessful privatisations. It's far more tragic, far more painful, far more unpleasant question than that corps of issues being solved by this law. We can list a series of specific examples. At one of the National Assembly sessions, Mr. Minister, I, and I think it's very interesting for you too, cited the frantic information: from the sea privatisations that go through the Privatisation Agency, do you know that against 21 owners, the new owners of the companies that are privatized, there is a criminal case before the Special Court for Organized Crime, that 16 of them are in custody, and of course there is no responsibility of those people at the Privatisation Agency who have provided and allowed such criminal, criminal, illegal privatisations? There were 22 persons, one trial was suspended, against 21 new owners of privatised enterprises being conducted before the Special Court for Organized Crime! It's just a sensation in itself, a disaster. What's going on? The companies are privatized, not a single letter from the privatisation contract is fulfilled, the assets of the company are sold out, nothing is realised, workers become social cases; this new owner goes to prison or into custody, and then what about the rights of these people? Some of these privatisations may sometimes cancel out, but the companies are gone. Do you remember I brought a delegation of people from the Bora Markovic Wood Industry to Obrenovac? Three hundred thirty workers, a couple of family members, a thousand people are at stake. The owner is in custody. The wood industry was turned into a gravel, and then it was an affair around gravel and these abuses – the owner in custody. The new owner of the Posavina Company in Obrenovac is in custody. One of the new owners of one of the first spark engines was sentenced to four years in prison. That's the kind of case you've got in your head. No one is responsible for the Privatisation Agency, which by definition should take care not only of the conclusion of the privatisation contract, but also of the implementation of the contract, of the launch of production, of the social programme, of the people who need to work. All this has grown into bushes and weeds, chosen where there are large supplies on the reserves, good machines, it is well alienated, measureed, what my colleague Vela Ilic would say, good locations and then nothing. I would ask you to pay attention to this and what a significant segment, because not if it wasn't a successful privatisation, it's a crime, literally. From this information I've told you, you can see it yourself. I'm not giving any objection to you, at least you're known as the minister who wants things to be right, but this is one huge, terrible corpus question. That's what I drew the prime minister's attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30189	Thank you. Does the minister want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30190	I will briefly refer to some of the remarks brought here by several MPs, and above all to the director who raises the issue of eradicating the peacemakers and the arbiters from the directory and allegedly his great authority, which he did not have according to the previous version of this law. In Article 45, there are clearly specified cases, i.e. the reasons when the Director can launch the initiative. This can also be done by the Social-Economic Council or by one of the participants of this council. In any event, the SES, or this Council, shall give an opinion or consent to the removal from the register under specific conditions provided for in Article 45 of this Act. Also, there have been complaints about the role and the involvement of the experts. In fact, it's true that the current article in 34 says that an arbiter can hire an artist. This article shall be deleted for the simple reason that Article 33, in the preceding article, gives the arbitration officer the opportunity to carry out all the evidence and make sure that all the facts are relevant for the decision in the course of the debate, which, under the Law on the litigation of the proceedings, includes the involvement of the experts. There was also a report on the Agency's work. I have that report. I think that question was raised by Mr. Hajdarevic. It's a matter of budget. For 2008 it is 20,800,000 dinars of the Agency's budget. The agency, by the way, has seven employees. This year, it will save about five to six million, which means it will not spend all the budget funds. Mr. Peric said, and we are not, of course, satisfied with the outcome and the results of the Agency so far, and that is one of the reasons why we are changing this law, because we want to strengthen this agency and make the ladies more competent, and hence the possibilities to act and achieve greater results than they have achieved so far. I must point out that this agency is not a substitution for courts. This is one possibility that we give to relieve the courts and try to resolve the conflict between employers and employees before the matter is resolved in court.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30191	Thank you, Minister. On what basis, Mr. Jojic? Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30192	Mr. Minister, I was talking about the key problems of our society, and above all, the workers. This happy authority of yours and the government has not made the workers who have lost their jobs happy and you will not make them happy by forming another hundred agencies. There are 111 authorities and ministries in this country. Who's gonna hold it? Russia has 15 ministries, and Serbia has 25, and 111 other parallel, flat ministries. The problem of labour rights will not be resolved by you now offering a text of amendments and addition to the law, by making the workers' rights come true faster. You're probably aware, Mr. Minister, that there's been a reduction in the number of individual disputes for a peaceful settlement. Why? Because the government has sold out all the companies, and they no longer have anything to do with the minimum earnings to handle the proceedings. Now all that remains to be done is disputes in cases where a collective contract is involved. I'll remind you that Panchevo was sold, and there were 50 companies. Now Panchevo only has two factories that do something. It's been sold. First of all, the mineral fertilizer factory was sold to thieves who managed to buy it for free, to get it on a gift. Azotara was sold in 2006 for $13 million to allow, Mr. Minister, the current government of thieves to, despite the fact that there was a $9 million fertilizer in the factory, they were full of warehouses... Foreign thieves have done so with thieves from our country, with the consent of the State, the Government and the Privatisation Agency. I appreciate some things, Mr. Ljajic, that you stand by, you go around, you take care where there is, you expose yourself as you expose yourself, but you can't solve problems. Mirko Cvetkovic signed a privatisation contract for Azotara so that thieves of a new factory, built by workers of Azotara Panchevo and the state, would sell it; its book value was 45,000 euros, sold it for 32,000,000 euros, took the money in their pocket and fled. Will the state now sue those and make up for the damages of these thieves... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30193	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by the MP, Mr Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30194	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I first of all ask the President, and I call you, as witnesses, for a question I will ask; there are four of them. Mr. Chairman, you chaired the session under consideration of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents. After the presentation of Minister Ivica Dacic, I asked for the right to a replica, which belongs to me in the Rules of Procedure. You refused to give me your word, you said I didn't have the right to reply to the Minister's presentation, which I warned you I had, that he misread me, etc. Now I'm asking a question. I can personally be unsatisfactory to you, I accept, we are different political orientations, we differ by all elements of political life, but you cannot implement the policy of first order and second order. Even under this law that needs to be passed, I could handle... You're a lawyer, you might advise me, if you don't strike, what can I do in this case? I am saying this because of the citizens of Serbia, to see how the chairmans abuse their discretionary rights. That discretionary right is so stretching that it brings us into this situation, we come into a situation to be discriminated against. I really don't know, Mr. Novakovic, whether I should put on some tape, I don't want to say yellow, but, let's say, put on a blue ribbon and in such a way let the citizens of Serbia know that I don't have the same rights as the other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30195	The time foreseen for advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure has expired. You didn't call on a member, nor is the injury you're pointing to in the first place because you're asking the chairman, and at least all of it was done directly together, since the injury was done yesterday. You're very nice to me personally, and I can tell you that I've learned a lot from you, and above all, to follow the Rules of Procedure. Because of what I've just said, I'm obliged to give you a notice based on article 100, because if I didn't, I would violate the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. Thank you for understanding. (Dragan Todorovic: Replica. () Replication to what? Replication on the breach of the Rules of Procedure you have committed or...? (Dragan Todorovic: Replication of interpretation. ) The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30196	I would like to explain first why I answered – because of the minister's statement that we misunderstood that the agencies were to substitute the courts. The right to say something gives me that since the time to explain my Serbian Progressive Party Parliamentary Group, I have reserved and left two minutes, because that is how I was repeatedly directed by the President of this Parliament, when, according to Article 144, she proposed to give the final word, to which we had no right, not to comment, but to this clarification, because we do not have our time. If you allow these two minutes, literally one sentence, to tell the minister that the problem is not to substitute, that it's fortunate that where the ministry is doing the job that the agency doesn't do it. If the government sets up an agency, it should also retain the right to control its work and control its income. I'm talking about agencies in principle. That there aren't two bodies, two institutions that spend double money on one and the same job. What is the biggest problem, the government is elected by political parties, voted for and held accountable to the people. By transferring some of the responsibilities to agencies, which are not visible to the public directly, which are not directly responsible, this thread of direct responsibility to the public of Serbia is interrupted, thinner and lost, and this is a major remark. With this agency, I have expressed my reasonable suspicion that the authorities of the state are being removed from its organs, such as courts, in order to use everything called a difficult life and what is called coercion to solve things in the Agency, not in courts. Just for the sake of clarity.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30197	Thank you. I'm finishing the initial search. Compared to Article 85, I'm determining an hour's notice. We'll continue at 4.10 p.m. The first on the list will be Mr Dragan Todorovic, who has just advertised the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. (Dear Todorovic, from the scene: How do you treat those who do not like you? )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30198	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. We move on to a joint principled review of the 25th and 26th points of the agenda – Proposal for AUTHORITY LAW and a proposal for an amending law on the AGENCY FOR THE LICENCE OF PURPOSE GOVERNMENTS I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of promoter Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, and Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic called for the meetings to be attended by Nebojsa Ćirić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and Luka Andric, adviser to the Minister of Economy and Regional Development. In accordance with the decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on the draft bankruptcy law and the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, and before the opening of the common principle search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and this is: Parliament group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliamentary group SRS – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group Progress Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group SPS-JS – 18 minutes; MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Send group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if you have not done so so far, to submit applications for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that MPs' groups have authorised them to represent: MP Milan Nikolic - MEP Group SPS-JS; National MP Milorad Buha - SRS Parliamentary Group; MP Aleksandar Jankovic - MEP for European Serbia; MP Jorgenka Tabakovic - MP for Serbia; MP Mladen Grujic - MP Nova Srbija. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law on bankruptcy and the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for the Licensing of Liquidity Managers. Before continuing the course of the session, Verica Radeta's MP was recorded in the system, and now MP Dragan Todorovic. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30199	I have, among other things, the promise of the previous chairman that at the beginning of the session, I will be given the floor because a member of Article 100(5) has been injured. I think, unfortunately, the individual chairman, as I have already said, is widely interpreting his discretionary right or applying it so that it is already becoming a real discrimination. I've got a feeling, maybe my gut is cheating on me, that this discretionary right is particularly applied to me, especially to some other MPs. I would ask you to make an effort to precisely define the duties of the chairman or of what they have the right to do and to which they have no right. We're going to get into a situation where your assessment will be the only chance anyone gets a word, which I don't think is good. All MPs should have the same rights. By the time I heard back, I would also like to inform the MPs of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the public, or the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that another session of the Defence and Security Committee has been postponed due to the lack of quorum. It is already symptomatic that MPs of the ruling majority, members of the Committee on Defence and Security, do not attend the meetings of the Security Committee, although we had a request for an emergency session because representatives of our delegation were to be appointed for participation at the Parliamentary Security Supervisory Conference. He asks whether the Defence and Security Committee needs this assembly, should it work? Or, if there's a chance that in the ruling majority they can look at who are members of the Defence and Security Committee, if they want to work, if they can meet these obligations... (President: Two minutes, thank you. )......................................................................................................... And that according to that, the Defence and Security Committee is on its way to work. Thank you so much, and I'm so sorry that I'm too late.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30200	No injured member of the 100th in the attitudes that you have stated. To prove this, Article 100, paragraph 1, states: “The MP has the right to orally point to a breach in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, i.e. the chairman, if he considers that it does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way and immediately after the infringement has been done. “ That is the basis for the word. The basis for the imposition of criminal measures is laid down in Article 7(1): “The President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, shall be obliged to impose on a national MP who does not comply with the provisions laid down in paragraphs 1, 2, 4 and 6 of this Article, or in another obvious way abuses the rights provided for in this Article the measures provided for in Articles 105, 106, 107 and 108 of this Rules of Procedure. “ (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: I did not call on it, please. I think your argument that it is a discretionary right does not stand because it cannot be said more clearly. If you had said that the chairman, regardless of the very obvious injury done, did not express the measures, you would have the right, and I would have defended that attitude, because it concerns the work atmosphere and the building of trust in the National Assembly session. As for your remarks on the work of the working bodies, I remind you that for the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the National Assembly, the chair of the National Assembly, as well as the presidents of the working bodies, Article 27, which implies the care of the orderly conduct of the work for which they are in charge as presidents of the working bodies. So, I don't think that all the opportunities are exhausted for the session of the Committee to be chaired by you to be held and I would like to refer you to the provisions by which you can address the President of the National Assembly, which will schedule a session of the Committee, but at the same time I remind you that every president of each working body, as well as any chairman, is obliged to provide conditions for the work of that body. This is not only practice, but also obligations under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and this responsibility cannot be transferred to anyone. To view the political position as a decision not to attend working-body sessions is a political stance and cannot be the subject of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. When I say this, I don't mean whether an MP who decides to express his political position by not being, or by boycotting a working body or by boycotting certain obligations, based on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, whether it belongs to opposition MP groups or ruling parliamentary groups... So, I urge you to address the president of the National Assembly, with the aim of helping you in your normal work with the working body, or the committee you chair. Or, if you don't think you can, yes, in agreement with her again, find a solution that is good for the working body and for the congregation in general. I remind you of a member who forbids to throw away. I remind you of the duality of morality and the duality of credibility of someone who thinks he can look for injuries to the Rules of Procedure, on any basis, and that at the same time he's allowed to break that Rules of Procedure when he likes it and what it seems to be politically convenient. This will not be allowed and it will be strictly by respecting Article 100 of Item 6... I ask the People's MP, Milorad Kristin, not to communicate with the chairman with rude gestures. How you communicate with gestures can be done elsewhere, but in the National Assembly Hall you can't. Please refrain and behave politely in the National Assembly session room. National MP Dragan Todorovic wishes to speak and receive a word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30201	Article 27 of Item 1 3 – The application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is important. Mrs. Komic, everything you said, you're right, but it doesn't apply at all to what I advertised and what I asked for. You're reading attitudes I haven't called upon at all. I have told you nicely that Article 100(6), which says: “If, even after explaining the president of the National Assembly, or the chairman, the MP considers that the injury has been committed, he may request, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly be declared without a review of it in the day of the vote. “ I asked the chairman, for I was not satisfied with this explanation, to give me the word and to ask that in the day for the vote, the Assembly declare whether or not it hurt the Rules of Procedure. You're reading to me something I haven't even called for. The old one here was very simple: on the same basis, the chairman of Mr. Novakovic gives one MP the right to reply, giving the other MP no right to replication. I have justifiably found myself affected, i.e. it is my right to assume that there are some personal reasons why Mr. Novakovic does not give me his word. I wasn't happy with his explanation, although he assured me that he personally liked me very much. It shows in a very strange way. I'm asking him not to like me anymore, but to treat other MPs as well. I asked, or I wanted to ask the Assembly to state whether or not he hurt the Rules of Procedure, but I was denied. Therefore, it was my call to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30202	The right to a replica is not the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's what we've determined as many times as there's a will to claim the right to replication. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: I only ask you). I suppose by the gesture you're giving me, you're asking me to violate the Rules of Procedure right now or not to give you an explanation for the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure. There are no negotiations on the rules. I don't break the Rules of Procedure. You can at any time make a statement about whether you want to be aware of the injuries you have said, and as regards Article 27 and Article 100, in the views, of the stenogram you mentioned, the Assembly declared in the day of the vote? Yes, you do. The squirrel Radeta wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30203	It is the 100th position that was injured by the chairman in the morning section, Mr. Novakovic. Mr. Dragan Todorovic asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure. I also put in a card and asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure, which was not at all, at least not loudly, stated by Mr. Novakovic. That Mr. Todorovic, and after that, we didn't get a word based on article 100. The Rules of Procedure speak of some strange interpretation of this Rules of Procedure. It's especially strange when someone who's a graduate lawyer does that, along with a lawyer. Mr. Novakovic, I really don't know, when your clients hear this, if they're going to run to pull the cases. You didn't let him talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and in this article 100, I don't want to read it all, this after the wrist says... On the other hand, Article 100(1) also states that the MP has the right to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and to say - and this injury was committed at the session of the National Assembly that is under way, and it was immediately after the injury. If someone calls to point to the injury, and the chairman, Mr. Novakovic, specifically, does not allow it to be spoken of, when can it be spoken, if it can't be directly after the injury has been done? Is an hour's break, which has been characterized by the needs and obligations of ministers lately, because God forbid, the minister can't sit in the O.R. both in the afternoon and afternoon, but as long as the minister can, so long as the debate takes place... So there's no possibility. You have violated the Rules of Procedure because you just gave Mr. Todorovic your word because lunchtime is not something that caused the injury. (President: Two minutes. ) So, right after, that is, you have both done an injury to this member, Mrs. Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30204	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure in either case. The fact is, you were saying there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. You were registered in the electronic system, the People's Parliament of the Witch of Radet, and that's why I called you. Then MP Dragan Todorovic joined the system and received his word. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure in this case either, and apparently when you've asked to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure before. I do, abuse of the right to the word has, from time to time. That's what I mentioned in the first explanation. I believe that such a tolerance is needed to build trust between opposition members and the ruling majority. Without doubting the skills, craftsmanship and knowledge of opposition members, I think that at certain times we all know that neither the breach of the Rules of Procedure was nor can be obtained by word, but this is allowed because it is in the interest of the atmosphere of work in the Assembly. The break time has been set and will always be set in the interest of the course of the session. So it was to end the search in principle, since the time given to us all by the Rules of Procedure for working on a certain agenda can be estimated. National MP Nikola Novakovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure or Replication? Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30205	So many times the name Novakovic was mentioned that I only have to answer to Mrs. Radeti very briefly. Unfortunately for me, she does not enjoy such sympathy as Mr. Todorovic, at least at my place. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Don't like me so much.) I won't. The bell. ) I have to reassure her, the items of the parties in my office are extremely safe, very serious and from the beginning to the end accompanied, without any doubt about the expertise, literacy or anything else. I ask that my last name Mrs. Radeta no longer be mentioned in this assembly in any context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30206	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Verica Radeta and Dragan Todorovic were registered in the electronic system. (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: I did not ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but rather a replica. You do not have the right to reply, but you can talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP of the Faith of Radet, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30207	Can I ask if I have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30208	You may ask.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30209	Do I have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30210	You don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30211	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30213	Ladies and gentlemen and distinguished citizens of Serbia who are following what should be a serious work of parliament, what Mrs Comic is doing right now has really nothing to do with serious work. A member of the 104th was injured by MP Nikola Novakovic. I'm sorry, Mr. Novakovic, that you don't like your last name, but I really don't think I can call you anything but Mr. Novakovic. So Mr. Nikola Novakovic distracted me that I no longer pronounce his last name. It is indeed the most cruel insult to the dignity of the National Assembly and to me as a people's messenger. Mr. Nikola Novakovic, I have not expressed fear that your cases, as a lawyer, are not well locked up, but I said – when your clients hear how bad a lawyer you are they will run to withdraw the cases and, I'm afraid, they will take an advance if you took it in advance. That's why I wanted to draw attention to you, as a colleague, to take care of it and to get a fiscal register in the meantime, as your party chief Mr. Mladjan Dinkic will close your shop. Only then, what about the cases and the clients?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30214	There's no breach of Article 104. The People's MP did not harm the Rules of Procedure in his address, expressed his position eventually that he did not want to listen to the mention of his name in a particular context. I warn you not to violate Article 104 at the same time when you explain that a member is injured. There is no way, unless you have special knowledge, that you know anything about the business life of MP Nikola Novakovic, who in this case is his private matter. You cannot know any views about the relationship between him and his clients, as you cannot know in advance whether Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic will close some shops or not. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: He will never. ) Is this throwing into breach of the Rules of Procedure, or should we not count on it as a violation? (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: No, this is a small communication between us. A little consultation. Now we don't count it. These are internal consultations among members of the parliamentary group? That's what I thought, internal consultations. Thank you. Does Proposer representative Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economy and Regional Development want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30215	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been given two draft laws: the draft bankruptcy law, as well as the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers. As you can see, the bankruptcy law is a whole new law. It is currently in force of the Bank's Bank of Commerce Act, which the National Assembly adopted in July 2004. The law began to apply in early 2005. The bankruptcy process has been well improved, however, we have seen in practice that further changes and further improvements are needed. By 2005, the bankruptcy lasted about seven years on average in Serbia. And now it's a long period, but it's cut to a period of about two years. Namely, Serbia's bankruptcy lasts between 18 and 24 months, depending on the size of the company. The basic criteria and indicators of whether a bankruptcy procedure is effective is to see the degree of settlement of the creditors, the length of the duration of the proceedings and the cost of the proceedings. In Serbia, the situation is the following: bankruptcy proceedings last, as I said, between 18 and 24 months. For example, in OECD countries it is a year and seven months, in Germany, for example, only a year and two months, so we are longer than European countries, and this law intends to help to make bankruptcy proceedings shorter and more efficient. Also, the confidence rate in Serbia is between 10% and 20% of the total bankruptcy mass, significantly lower than the OECD countries, where the confidence rate is even close to 70%. Therefore, bankruptcy and is an effective way of restructuring businesses, as 70% of creditors settle from bankruptcy proceedings, while in Serbia only 10-20%, which is why they are often avoided. Thus, the cost of the procedure in Serbia is as much as 23% of the total bankruptcy mass, while the average in OECD countries is around 8%. Three times lower costs of bankruptcy proceedings in developed countries than are currently in Serbia. Five years ago, it was a lot worse, before this new law. However, we cannot be satisfied with this current law. We've been thinking about whether or not to propose changes and additions, but since maltenes change 80% of the matter, we've proposed a brand-new bankruptcy law. As for the other indicators that characterize the current situation, I said the bankruptcy proceedings take a long time, from 18 to 24 months. Why is that? The first reason it's like that is to break deadlines by competent courts. In only 40% of cases, the first trustee hearing in trade courts was held up to 40 days from the time when the bankruptcy was opened, which should be some optimal deadline, and even in 60% of cases after 40 days, and therefore the bankruptcy proceedings themselves are long. Also, the second reason affecting the long bankruptcy process in Serbia is a vague system of legal medicines, a high passivity of creditors, a great ineffectiveness in the execution of court orders, as well as insufficient supervision of the work of the bankruptcy managers themselves. Of course, the length of the procedure directly affects the cost level and therefore the costs of the bankruptcy procedure in Serbia are three times higher than in the OECD countries. Also, I said the confidence rate is relatively low. The causes of low confidence settlement are also multiple. In fact, Serbian creditors do not have the incentive to initiate bankruptcy proceedings because it is about debtors who either have no property or, if the property exists, the problem is at the level of the advances in order to even initiate bankruptcy proceedings and uncertainty about how these advance costs will be compensated. In that sense, debtors have the motive to make bigger debts, even if they deliberately enter blockades, thus cheating on creditors. That's why we have this number of blocked companies in Serbia. One good part of the blockades is not the result of bad business operations, but of intentional blockades to avoid commitments to creditors. We have to change this and propose certain changes that will reduce the possibility of abuse entering the blockade. Also, it is relatively small to benefit from the bankruptcy process for businesses, as the small percentage of trustees' settlement is low. Out of the 794 cases of bankruptcy opened since 2005 to this day under the new law, only 4% of these and 29 cases were reorganizations. Everything else was so-called. bankruptcy. In developed countries, the percentage of the reorganisation in the bankruptcy process is much more pronounced and the bankruptcy process is one of the basic ways for a company in difficulty to be restructured and to re-start a new life through the process of reorganisation. That, unfortunately, is not the case in Serbia. Of course, in addition to these problems that I have mentioned, there are a number of problems that are related to the quality of the work of the bankruptcy managers themselves, to the capacity of the system of commercial courts, to control these bankruptcy managers, which is not clearly defined by the licensing agency, which we now want to fix and change through these changes. What are the newspapers that pass this law compared to the ones in force? What are we supposed to do? We want to make adjustments to all these problems that I've been talking about, which have been seen in practice. We want to make changes that introduce new solutions and additional incentives and mechanisms for trustees to launch bankruptcy procedures. Also, those solutions that need to improve the efficiency of bankruptcy are changing. Key amendments to the law refer to the next 12 things. First, the principles and objectives of the bankruptcy process are defined. It enables judges to interpret this law more easily and give guidance for the application of the law, because we have seen that this existing law also has some legal gaps, so in the case law there was a different application. We have now sought to remove legal gaps through clear guidelines. The other thing is to facilitate the process. Namely, the advance required to initiate a bankruptcy procedure at all is reduced, in order to make it easier for creditors to decide to initiate the procedure. The obligation to recover advances from bankruptcy funds is clearly foreseen as soon as possible. So far, this has been one big problem and an obstacle to companies going into bankruptcy at all. First, it's expensive to run, secondly, it's uncertain whether they'll ever charge what they've taken over. Now we're removing this. The third thing is to simplify the bankruptcy process itself. So far, bankruptcy has been conducted by the bankruptcy manager plus the bankruptcy council appointed by the Trade Court. The bankruptcy council is now being abolished and only one bankruptcy judge as an organ will proceed with bankruptcy proceedings, which must speed up the process. Also, the choice of bankruptcy judges is significantly improved by introducing a random choice of bankruptcy administrator through a computer, so that the Court of Commerce judge does not affect the choice of a bankruptcy judge, but is chosen by an appropriate computer program by a creditor, which is a practice in developed countries. Also, a directory of bankruptcy managers will be introduced and will be divided into active and passive bankruptcy managers. Passive bankruptcy managers won't be able to handle cases. Mandatory insurance is introduced against professional responsibility, which means that every bankruptcy manager will have to be secured at an amount not less than 30,000 euros, so that if he makes a mistake in the bankruptcy process, insurance must be paid to creditors who have lost their value, with the insurance premium at several hundred euros a year after a bankruptcy judge. Underlaws also change the scale of the award for bankruptcy managers. In other words, there will be no proportional reward, but, depending on the size of the property and size of the company, a proportionally higher reward goes, in a relative amount, for small enterprises, and the percentage of the prize is reduced when it comes to large-value property cases. Closer supervision of the Agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers over the work of the administrator shall be introduced. The next thing, which is the paper in the law, is to reintroduce the pre-exclusive deadline for reporting bankruptcy claims, with the aim of examining the claim and the main part being speeded up and reducing the length of the proceedings due to late applications. The conditions for beating bankruptcy claims are clearly defined. The possibility is introduced to carry out the division of the bankruptcy mass more quickly and to transfer the excess bankruptcy mass to the capital owners earlier. The problem of the previous law was that, regardless of the clear situation in some cases where bankruptcy was greater than the amount of debt, courts kept that money in bank accounts instead of sharing it with capital owners. Now this law will not be able to do so, but will have to immediately distribute a bankruptcy mass that is excess above the obligation of the owners of the capital. The paper of this law is also a new institute, which is an automatic bankruptcy for companies that have been in the blockade for a long time. That institute will be introduced gradually. Since the New Year, all legal entities in the blockade for more than three years will automatically be deleted from the Agency for Business Registers. After a year, the deadline will be reduced and all legal persons who have been blocked for more than two years will automatically be deleted, and after 2011, the deadline will be one year. Anyone who has been blocked for more than a year is automatically deleted from the business register. This will remove the current situation, in which of the 110,000 legal entities is 22,000 companies in the blockade. I'm talking about legal people, not entrepreneurs. The largest number of these companies has not been active for a long time; as many as 6,000 companies have been blocked for more than three years and it is clear that they will never again operate through that account. It is therefore proposed to automatically delete them from the business register. The exception is that this will not apply to companies that are in the restructuring process and to those companies that, within 60 days of the time of advertising of bankruptcy, pay advances. If someone pays an advance to launch a bankruptcy, then they won't automatically be deleted. Our guess is that there will be a small number of such cases, because the largest number of these companies will be deleted from the register. A new reorganisation institute will be introduced to allow the process to be completed within 30 to 60 days. It's so-called. Institute of Pre-prepared Reorganisation Plan, known in developed countries. He's never used in our house before. It should help to restructure most of the companies in the bankruptcy process through reorganisation, not bankruptcy, within the total number of firms in the bankruptcy process. In this way, obligations are deleted, and on the other hand, it is possible to employ capacities and benefit both the state and the workers. The legal consequences of the adoption of the reorganisation plan are specified in detail. Provisions on the bankruptcy of entrepreneurs and small values are deleted. These are the key changes this new law makes. I have to say that in the time of this crisis, the two biggest problems that we have seen, which our economy faces, are the following problems: one is that very slowly building permits are issued and there is a great bureaucracy in this, and the other, not a minor problem, especially during the crisis, is the fact that it has been seen that some shareholders are deliberately avoiding paying their creditors by knowingly entering the blockade. In this way, given that there is no possibility of a trustee, who gives goods to someone, to see what the financial situation of each supplier is, there is no central register of the financial situation of the supplier, then often people have no knowledge, give goods that are never paid to them and therefore suffer great losses. In order to eliminate this, we will, among other things and for this reason, prepare a whole new law on companies next year, where the responsibility of shareholders will be significantly increased, because it is absurd for entrepreneurs to guarantee their obligations to their assets, and shareholders' societies, etc. d. o. o., they don't guarantee it. We have, on the one hand, the fact that we've facilitated the company's registration process. It will remain that way, it only takes 500 euros for the company to register, but we need to introduce a far greater degree of transparency in business by knowing who they are giving the goods to, knowing with whom they are making the contract, based on an adequate register, in which they will be able to have an insight every day, every minute. It'll be an obligation. Now, unfortunately, they can only look at the balance sheets of the company they're dealing with once a year. We're going to delete that from this new company law. Third thing, we're going to introduce another law into this optics, and that's the director's responsibility law. Developed countries in the EU have such laws that if a court procedure proves that a director deliberately took the company into a blockade, or bankruptcy, to play the creditors, to cheat them, then strict legal penalties are imposed for those who have made a fictitious bankruptcy. Also, a ban on the performance of up to 12 years is being imposed on those people who are proven in an appropriate court procedure that they deliberately cheated on their creditors. By passing these three laws we will close the holes that exist today, unfortunately, in our system. The bankruptcy law, which is before you, plus the company law and the director's liability law, make up the whole package that should be completely removed by the middle of next year by the end of the year, the anomalies that we have noticed in the current system and that were even bigger in the context of the crisis, because some firms in the fight for easy profit in the conditions of the crisis, and others forced to sell to anyone who could, in order to increase traffic, go into deliberate and fictitious blockades, and then they opened new businesses and did not have any sanctions, because unfortunately, there is a legal hole in our system. The only way to prevent this from happening is for those found to be deliberately bankrupt, i.e. deliberately introducing the company into a blockade to avoid debts to creditors. Finally, you have before you an amendment to the Act on the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers. An important Act on the Agency was adopted in 2004, when the Agency was established. The basic reason why amendments are proposed is the fact that the current law does not well regulate the issue of overseeing the work of licensed bankruptcy managers. Also, the procedure in which sanctions and measures are imposed against the bankruptcy manager is not best defined. This is precisely why, in order to achieve greater responsibility for licensed bankruptcy managers and to be able to withdraw their licences if irregularities in their work, based on objective criteria, changes are introduced in this law. Therefore, the key changes relate to a clear indication of the tasks and activities of the Agency, to the detailed regulation of the supervisory procedure, i.e. professional supervision of bankruptcy managers. Also, a detailed disciplinary procedure against bankruptcy managers is regulated if they violate the provisions of this law. Of course, this law is in line with the Public Agency Act. Also, the public is being promoted in the work of the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers, as a provision on the Agency's obligation to publish an annual work programme, a financial plan, a financial report and an annual report on work on the Agency's website has been introduced, which has not been the case in the current law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30216	Is the word rapporteur of the committee responsible, the Committee on Finance, MP Milan Vukkovic, a member of the Committee? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? In the order of the smallest, with MP Milan Nikolic asking, due to earlier commitments, that LDP and New Serbia's authorised representatives leave him to receive his word. The deal's been made. Here you go. National MP Milan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30217	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers and Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the need for proposals for the adoption of bankruptcy laws, although relatively recently adopted the current Bank's Act, I see in the observed shortcomings of the current law, in particular ineffectiveness in the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings and a very expensive procedure of the bankruptcy process, as well as emerging new economic circumstances. I would like to remind you that Serbia's economy suffered huge difficulties back in the 1990s, when the collapse of Yugoslavia and the devastation of many reproductive chains occurred; many successful businesses then came into bankruptcy, and those who survived had a hard time doing business because of years of sanctions; then comes the period of economic crisis, which also affects the otherwise fragile economy of Serbia. In the period from 2000 to today, the privatisation process has been under way so that, with October of this year, 1,815 are privatised to the company, of which by selling in the 107 tender, and by selling by auction 1,700 companies. Unfortunately, out of the total number of privatised companies, 435 cases resulted in the termination of the privatisation contract due to the failure of the contract obligations of the customers of these companies and the suspension of the production activities of which such companies were engaged. As a rule, these companies are in a much worse situation than when privatisation was made. So these companies, as well as many others, are burdened by huge obligations towards the state and creditors and are unable to reconcile their obligations. He's threatening the domino effect of pulling into the liquidity zone and a successful trustee company. That is why it is good that the proposing is defined as a new bankruptcy law. The new bankruptcy law insists on the efficiency of the bankruptcy process, at the lowest cost, and as soon as possible to implement the bankruptcy. Key newspapers in the draft new law include the introduction of the principle and objectives of bankruptcy proceedings, the precision and introduction of new bankruptcy reasons, the abolition of the bankruptcy council, the accuracy of the status provisions and the appointment of the bankruptcy manager, the introduction of the possibility of beating claims, the existence of a pre-prepared restructuring plan and the erasure of the bankruptcy of entrepreneurs and small-value bankruptcy. The introduction of the possibility of reorganisation, which, however, is not more detailed in the law, creates the possibility that the company's bankruptcy process is not sent into bankruptcy. On the contrary, the reorganisation may create conditions for the successful continuation of the company’s work, provided that the creditor or the pro-longing of the liabilities is at odds with the creditor’s share of assets or with the consent of the creditor. This possibility of the outcome of the bankruptcy process, or rather, the reorganisation before bankruptcy, is very important, because the current debt crisis and liquidity does not necessarily mean that there is no perspective of the survival of certain firms. From the positive outcome of the reorganisation, workers benefit the most, because they do not remain jobless, but also creditors, because they continue to deal with the debtor, but also the state, because any new investment for a similar type of production and any other activity is far more expensive than the reorganisation. Of course, the reorganisation must be studio-student and provide confidence to the trustee, the bankruptcy judge and the bankruptcy manager that they will be successfully realised. The bill clearly distinguishes bankruptcy from reorganisation. Bankruptcy implies the settlement of creditors through the sale of the total assets of the creditor, while the reorganisation implies the settlement of creditors according to the adopted reorganisation plan, by defining debt-confidential relations, with the aim of preserving the business of the creditor when real economic conditions exist. The draft law sets out eight essential principles of bankruptcy that must be respected: the principle of protection of creditors, under which bankruptcy proceedings allow for collective and proportionate settlement of creditors; the principle of equal treatment and equality, by which the bankruptcy procedure provides for equal treatment and equal treatment and equal treatment of creditors of the same payment order; the principle of economicity, by which bankruptcy proceedings are carried out in order to enable the maximum possible value of the assets of the creditor and the degree of settlement of creditors in the shortest period of time and at as little cost; the principle of judicial implementation, by which the open bankruptcy proceedings are carried out by the competent court under official duty; the principle of imperativeness and pre-determination - an advantage over other laws; the principle of urgency, under which there is no substitute and bankruptcy; the principle of double bankruptcy; the principle of the principle of public and information. The bill accurately defines the reasons for launching the bankruptcy procedure, as Mr. Minister said. These are: permanent inability to settle payment obligations, threatening insolvency, over-indebtedness, failure to comply with the adopted reorganisation plan and, very often, false over-indebtedness. If the debtor does not settle his obligations within a period of more than 45 days from the date of maturity of the obligation, if there has been a complete suspension of payment within 30 days, these are sufficient reasons to initiate the bankruptcy procedure. Also, in case of over-indebtedness, i.e. if the debtor's obligations are greater than the trustee's assets, the insolvency proceedings may be initiated and, of course, if the debtor does not take advantage of the opportunity to implement the reorganisation plan in a consistent manner. It is also a condition for the initiation of the procedure if the debtor does not settle his obligations to several creditors. If it's one trustee, there's no reason to initiate bankruptcy. The bill defines the authorities of the bankruptcy proceedings: the bankruptcy judge, the bankruptcy manager, the trustee's assembly and the trustee's committee. It is noticeable that there has been a suspension of the bankruptcy council compared to the current law. I think this solution is fine, because it provides efficiency, and it increases the liability of a bankruptcy judge; decisions are not doubled, and there is two-stage decision-making through the High Court of Commerce. The liability of the insolvency judges shall be particularly potent in determining the bankruptcy and initiating the bankruptcy procedure, the appointment of the bankruptcy manager, the approval of the costs of the bankruptcy procedure, the determination of the height of the bankruptcy manager's prize, the monitoring of the implementation of the reorganisation plan, if it is established in advance. The bankruptcy manager is elected from the list of the directory of bankruptcy managers by means of a random sample, provided that the candidate fulfils the necessary conditions: that he is a Serbian citizen, that he is commercially capable, that he has at least three years of working experience, that he owns a high school arrangement, that he owns a three-year licence and that he is worthy of trust to carry out the business of a bankruptcy manager. It is characteristic that the proposer has defined that the bankruptcy proceedings against private-owned companies are entrusted to the creditor, while the bankruptcy proceedings against companies with majority government capital are entrusted to an organisation that is specifically designated by law to carry out the operations of the creditor. It's about the Privatisation Agency. I will comment on this solution at the end of my presentation. Otherwise, the control of the work of the bankruptcy manager, in addition to the bankruptcy judge and the assembly and trustee committee, shall be carried out by the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants, with the right to declare the measures of warnings, public notices, fines, to the extent that the licence is withdrawn and the shift in case the entrusted transactions are not properly carried out. The bill also accurately defined the obligations and procedures in carrying out the operations of the bankruptcy manager, as well as provisions relating to the powers and work of the trustees' and trustees' committees. After the determined amount of the total bankruptcy margin, access shall be made to the settlement of creditors whose claims are undeniable at the expense of the regular one, as follows. The first pay includes the outstanding net earnings of employees and former employees with interest from the date of maturity until the date of opening of the bankruptcy procedure for the last year prior to the opening of the bankruptcy procedure and the outstanding contributions for pension and disability insurance for the last two years prior to the opening of the bankruptcy procedure, the basis for which the accounting base constitutes the minimum monthly basis for the contribution according to the rules on contributions for compulsory social insurance on the date of opening the bankruptcy procedure. The second payment order includes claims on the basis of all public revenues received in the last three months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy procedure, other than contributions to pension and disability insurance. The third payment order is the claims of other creditors. The paper in the law is that trustees who have declared before the bankruptcy procedure could be settled after all payment orders have been settled, under special conditions... Although the legislator stresses equality in the settlement of creditors, there is still order in priorities, which I will also say a few words about in the end. Otherwise, a bankruptcy procedure can run itself a bankruptcy debtor or any of the trustees with payment so-called. advances, in order to avoid undue bankruptcy and cost-taking on that basis. Of course, in the previous procedure, before bankruptcy, the reasons for the initiation of bankruptcy are determined and in the event of a reason, access is made to the bankruptcy proceedings, and the initiator returns the amount of advances. Measures shall be taken to protect debtors' assets from alienation and shall be recorded. The bankruptcy judge shall appoint a hearing for the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings and shall take a decision on the bankruptcy procedure, collect claims from creditors who shall be agreed within no less than 30 days and no longer than 120 days. On the day of the publication of the advertisement on the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings, the agent's rights of director shall cease, as well as the supervisory authority's rights and shall be transferred to the bankruptcy administrator. Workers shall be dismissed and all court proceedings brought against the debtor shall cease. The bankruptcy administrator, in collaboration with the judge, shall carry out all legal actions of bankruptcy, in particular in the part of the alienation of the debtor's assets through sales and public competition, the public collection of offers, directly by contract, the urgent sale of perishable goods, all in agreement with the trustee's board, in accordance with the law. The bill is made up of trustees on payment orders after a solution has been made on the main deob. In the event of an excess de-negotiated mass, the bankruptcy manager is obliged to pay the surplus at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget. After the winding-up of the bankruptcy and after the division of the bankruptcy, other than the ongoing litigation conducted by the debtor as a trustee, the decision on the completion of the bankruptcy proceedings shall be made. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I believe that several proposed solutions in the new bankruptcy law need to be commented, because the text of the solutions given gives the impression that they differ from the stated objectives and principles of the law on bankruptcy, and that is the principle of equality before the law. It would be normal for all persons, trustees, debtors and others, to exercise their rights and obligations on the principle of equality and equality, therefore, under the same conditions. The proposed solution violates this principle by giving the debtor two different treatments, depending on the property over the creditor. If the debtor is in majority private ownership, the creditor must have a licence and meet a number of other conditions. It must be subject to professional supervision of the regulatory body, must be chosen in the manner provided for in the law and must correspond to the personal property for the damage done in the bankruptcy proceedings. The cost of bankruptcy is charged with the tariff of the licensing agency. If the debtor is in the majority state property, the bankruptcy manager is the Privatisation Agency, whose workers do not have to have a licence, or fulfil other intended conditions. The bankruptcy of the water of persons who are not under professional supervision of the regulatory body. There is no provision in the law as those persons are elected. The bankruptcy organization does not own any personal property that is responsible for the damage done. The law does not contain any provision on how to select persons to conduct bankruptcy in front of the Agency. The cost of bankruptcy shall not be charged with the tariff of the Licensing Agency. The current Banking Act provided that the Privatisation Agency must have persons with a bankruptcy management license and professional supervision of them were performed by the Licensing Agency, as well as by supervision of bankruptcy. Now it's gone. I think those provisions should be reconsidered. I think it was a better solution to equalise the required conditions, control and liability of bankruptcy managers, regardless of the character of property over the debtor. However, regardless of these remarks, we believe that such a law is necessary because it offers a reduction in the time limit for the bankruptcy procedure, offers greater responsibility, ensures that the property is protected, ensures that the bankruptcy procedure in the first 30 days is finished in the most part and that in this way a far greater amount of bankruptcy can be valorised than it has been before, in fact, in percentages that Mr. Minister has carried out. Therefore, I repeat, we will support the adoption of such a law. The draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for the Licensing of Vulnerabilities of Banks shall determine the activities of the Agency closer, as the current law has laid down the rights and obligations of this Agency in general. Amendments to the Law specify the measures that the Agency may take in the exercise of supervision of the work of bankruptcy managers. Internal acts shall be laid down and the authorities of the Agency shall be defined. The proposal provides adequate alignment with the new bankruptcy law. And this bill, in fact, the proposal to amend and supplement the law, the SPS-JS Group, will support it in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30218	The word has been issued by MP Mladen Grujic, authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30219	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, allow me to agree with you at the beginning of the presentation in one thing, which is that the situation regarding bankruptcy in Serbia is disastrous. There, unfortunately, ceases every similarity in my and your views. We currently have, if I am not mistaken, 60,000 companies that meet the conditions for bankruptcy, according to today's law. There are a lot of companies that have one employee, but there are companies with 100 or more employees. I can safely claim that the fate of at least 200,000 people, 200,000 employees, depends on the changes we are discussing today; 200,000 employees with about 400,000 family members, if we count on everyone to have a husband, wife or child. So the fate of 600,000 people is more than a good reason for us all to sit here and try to find the best solution for them, together. We from New Serbia are not running away from getting together with you to come to a common, good bankruptcy law. A year and a half ago, when we went into opposition, we said we wouldn't sit in these benches and be apores against everything the government suggested, on the contrary, when we saw that you had made a proposal that was meaningful and that the interest of the people and the interest of the state was obvious, we would support it. Personally, I disagree with you that it was necessary to pass a new bankruptcy law. I think it was necessary for the bankruptcy law to be applied, which so far has not been quite the most common case, but it is not decided by the Assembly in this bill that there are things that are in place, although I think we could have done it by amending the existing law, but let's just say it's just a form. The laws are a living thing and, depending on the development of society, laws should also be changed. We accept that. Unfortunately, in this law, there are two changes in this bill compared to the existing law, which are extremely important. You've listed more, but I think some are technical, some are fine. There are two changes that you insist on that are neither technical nor caused by natural social development. Ted's things I want to talk about today are a classic example of the way this government, your government works, and these are small, tiny modifications that you put into laws and that have no other function other than to be used at times when you're calculating with political enemies or rewarding political like-minded people. That's the problem with this society. Let us once bring together one law that is clear, which is precise and which leaves no room for manipulation. The first concept you have introduced in this law, which bothers me, is the notion of over-indebtedness as one of the reasons for bankruptcy. So the reason for bankruptcy is not only when the company is blocked or cannot meet its obligations, but also when someone estimates that the company will not be able to meet its obligations in the future. For that assessment, there is no exact method, some economic definition, but exclusively the feeling of a judge. That feeling in Serbian legislation and in the Serbian economy always comes down to some political order from above. Unfortunately, I speak from experience. It is not good that you propose this, because today, using this provision of the law, you can get rid of any real estate firm in Serbia, for example. Real estate values are halved because of the global crisis, because of our crisis, because of such a situation on the market and today you can freely enter, I am talking about Belgrade because I am a Belgrade MP, at any construction firm in Belgrade, and to assess that it is over-indebted. There are several such companies in Belgrade, and just to see if the court will declare bankruptcy in all of them or only in the one where the owner has made the most statements against the authorities lately. The other very bad thing about this bill is the extraction of a bankruptcy manager from a drum, by a method of random sampling. Let me read the reasoning of the legislator: “Considering the large number of bankruptcy managers and the fact that some of them have never been awarded any bankruptcy, the law stipulates that the bankruptcy manager is, as a rule, chosen by the method of random selection from the list of active bankruptcy managers,” probably to get as much experience as possible. It doesn't make sense. Do you want to bring in some bankruptcy manager who's never worked, who's never had a chance to practice a little by giving him bankruptcy from some of the Belgrade banks, and I'm afraid we'll soon have bankruptcy from Belgrade banks? Of course, as always, the legislator leaves the possibility that in complicated cases, without the definition of a complicated case, the judge can set up a bankruptcy director at his discretion. You're making two mistakes here. First, the insane selection of the method of random sampling of bankruptcy managers, and then you leave space that if you care about that subject you set up your man. Mr. Minister, what's your next step? You can also prescribe that, for example, in civil litigation, parties cannot choose their own lawyer rather than get him out of a drum, because there are so many lawyers in Serbia who have not enough work and neither practice, and on the other hand, there are some who have too many. Come on, please, let's get serious. We're here together, we're here to try and find some solutions. New Serbia has submitted a dozen amendments to this law and if you accept them, I can say that we will support the law, because we are aware of how much it takes to make this law as easy as possible. The list of our amendments is with you, read, think. The most important thing for us is to stop practicing... You said the average bankruptcy lasts a year or two, and I'm going to count you ten years of bankruptcy, and that's what hurts us. These ten-year bankruptcys are not ten years old because they are complicated, but because they serve to fill pockets with bankruptcy managers, a group of privileged creditors and judges. I can only give you some examples from Belgrade County: the construction company "Rad", Beko, these are the best examples of scandalous bankruptcys. This form does not exist in legislation, but it exists in practice. So far, if I'm not mistaken, correct me, there have been five bankruptcy managers of the construction company "Rad" that ended either in prison or in escape, and the bankruptcy does not end. It's obvious everyone's sweet enough to deal with that bankruptcy and hope they don't get hurt. It is a practice in Serbia to quickly end bankruptcy only in those companies where everything has already been stolen, so it is not interesting for a judge or a bankruptcy director to withdraw the case. Is there a better example than "Beka"? At some point in our lives, we all bought something from them. It was a famous confection. The sale of assets puts all the trustees on hold, but unfortunately there are more assets left, and that is precisely the case, in Knez Mihail Street and in other pedestrian streets in Serbia. To remind you, 60% of Beko company belongs to small shareholders and 40% to the Action Fund. No one is pleased at this time to return the company to its owners now that all creditors are at peace. The workers are stalling, the shareholders are stalling, the Action Fund you represent as minister. New reasons are being invented for delaying bankruptcy and only looking for ways to melt the property. Believe me, it will melt, because there is no better way in Serbia to disappear or evaporate than it is bankruptcy. The new bankruptcy law does nothing to simplify or speed up bankruptcy, unfortunately. A good bankruptcy law serves to bring legal certainty into the economy, i.e. that any company can sell goods or provide services to another company, and that it is certain that they will charge the invoice. That's what bankruptcy is for. This is just another example, of many, that this government does not care perfectly to bring security into business in Serbia, because then the power of ministers, deputy ministers and the entire army of state powers is lost. The moment we have a stable and secure economy, you, Mr. Minister, do your job, deputies do their job, but you can't directly affect the economy. That's what the problem is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30220	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30221	Thank you. I'd like to respond to these three remarks you made. First of all, you did not truthfully inform the MPs and the public about the first case, which is the case of overindebtedness. It is true that the Banking Act foresees that if a company is over-indebted, that is, if it has more obligations than its value, the debtor himself can initiate bankruptcy proceedings. The trustee can't. You've been saying the trustee can run. Why would he do that? Data is a possibility, so in all bankruptcy laws in developed countries, that I am in debt, whoever owes, the person in question has the possibility to launch bankruptcy if he considers himself insolvent, or overindebted, before he becomes insolvent, or before the account is blocked. So we have two situations. The first phase is insolvency – obligations are greater than assets, but there is still money in the account and they work. In order to prevent the possibility of a complete failure and to block his account, the debtor (only debtor, not trustee) can, under this law, initiate bankruptcy proceedings, and the judge can hire an expert to verify whether such a request is justified and to approve it or not. This law provides and is in line with solutions in all developed countries. If the account is non-equity, i.e. the account is blocked, only then within a specified period, it is 30 days after it has become insolvent, or since the account has been blocked, the trustee, if there is no other way to collect the claim, may initiate bankruptcy proceedings against the debtor. So that's one thing. You have not truthfully informed the People's Messengers. The second thing, as far as getting out of the drum, was that it was not good for a judge to choose a bankruptcy manager at the same time and approve of the cost of bankruptcy proceedings, as this raises suspicion of corruption. As a result, a solution has been taken, which has led some countries with great success, to choose from the drum, or the method of random sampling, one of the licensed bankruptcy managers. On the other hand, by law at the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, we have tightened control, or oversight of these managers, so that no one can have a license. So you're right, in the sense that anyone who hasn't had a case can, and he's licensed to run a complicated one, but that's why the law gives the possibility that a judge can in these complicated cases directly, but with reason, to choose. But then the judge answers. The judge takes great responsibility for himself if he did not accidentally select a bankruptcy manager from the drum, but he set it himself because it was an extremely complicated case and in a desire to avoid someone who had no experience until then. Then he has to explain it, sign it, and it's known that if that bankruptcy doesn't go well, then the judge can be called to account. The third thing, which is particularly untrue, is about what you said the government was responsible for these ten-year bankruptcys. I fully agree with you that it is inappropriate and bad, in every sense, that bankruptcy, according to the old law, which preceded this present one, is done so many years. All these cases you've been talking about, and "Rad", on the basis of which a lot of criminal charges have been made and were appropriate detentions, "Beko" and some other cases, unfortunately, yours, and mine and all those who want good for this economy, take a long time, but it's under the old law, not according to this 2004. It's not good that in the middle of a case that lasts, say, five or six years ago, it's shifted the power to some new bankruptcy manager who has nothing to do with what's been going on in the past. What I'm saying is that the government has no responsibility for these ten-year cases, because they're being tried by the court. Since the judiciary is independent of the executive, responsibility for these long cases is exclusively in court. The government's responsibility under this new 2004 law is that it lasts 24 months, not shorter. That's where I accept that there's a responsibility. That's why we're changing the law. For these old cases of the 1990s, under the old law, it is the court that is responsible. In that sense, I am quite convinced, as you believe, that there are a huge number of irregularities and there is only a police matter that can work, to see who is stalling and what are the motives of stalling, but I note that the government cannot influence the speed of these proceedings, as they are led by the court.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30222	Right on line, MP Mladen Grujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30223	Mr. Minister, I am sorry that the two of us disagree, not because of our personal relationship, but because I remain living in this country and when you are no longer in power and I remain living with these laws, as they are and as I fear they will bring. I see from your presentation that you immediately ruled out the possibility of accepting all our amendments. Slowly, read, see, ten or twelve we have endured; one you have refused, perhaps the rest you will accept. Let me say about this other thing, as far as bankruptcy managers are concerned – you, I'm afraid, minimize the incompetence that can come, and it's very dangerous because incompetence has made this country unhappy, which is the wrong people in the wrong places. As for my misreading and what you said was false, I'm afraid already, and before the law is passed, we have a situation where one member is not clear enough: I interpret it this way, and you interpret it that way. So it hasn't even been passed yet, and it can already be interpreted in two different ways. Okay. Also, I want to honestly believe that you're as concerned as I am about these crazy bankruptcys that last so many years, where the robbery is made by the state, which is social, which is private property, and I only hope that something will be done in the future. It's never happened before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30224	The word is by MP Judita Popovic, authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30225	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen the MPs, unfortunately, all reforms are going very slowly in Serbia, step by step, possibly phase. I agree with the minister that it is not enough to pass only bankruptcy laws so that we can complete the improvement of the entire bankruptcy procedure, because this law, in addition to these amendments and the addition of the Law on the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, is not sufficient to improve the whole process. In addition to this law, it is necessary to pass a law on the responsibility of the director of the company that becomes the subject of the bankruptcy procedure, and it is necessary to reform the entire enforcement procedure. If the executive process were to be reformed and improved, I think it would be much easier to conduct bankruptcy procedures and it would be a much clearer situation in which companies are mature for bankruptcy proceedings. Unfortunately, there are currently 20,000 companies in the blockade for over a month in Serbia, 10,000 companies have been blocked for about two years, and more than 6,000 companies have been blocked for over three years. These are large figures for such a damaged economy as the economy in Serbia. Unfortunately, there are also bankruptcy procedures in Serbia, around 2,000, and these bankruptcy procedures have affected workers, around 400,000 workers. In July of this year, 300 companies went missing from the Business Registers Agency map, since they may have been in a blockade for 20 years. Some company, for example, hasn't paid workers since 1995. When we have a picture of this unhappiness, then we look forward to every change, because we expect that change to be a little more serious about solving all the burning problems that occur. We welcome, say, the principles that are set out in this law, which is the principle of the protection of creditors, because trustees need to be protected, they are the ones most affected by the bad business of a company. We welcome the principle of equal treatment and equality in the bankruptcy process. It is also very important to send a good picture and good signals to future investors. The principle of economics, the principle of judicial enforcement, the principle of imperative and pre-inclusiveness, urgency, dual-stageness, public and information are principles which are worthy of both the EU and the civilised world. So if we move within these principles that are declared in this law, then we will have no problem implementing this law. I think that, if we round up a set of laws, so besides this law that's on today's agenda and an amendment to the Law on the License Agency, we're going to be able to make order in the economic sector and finally figure out what's going on in the industry, in the process, and that things are simply not being removed from the first plan, so that we finally know who's been doing business under the law, who's been doing business in some gray zone, who's been removing money, and who used that money to really develop their business. If we look at what's been going on in the economy for the past twenty years, we can say that a lot of businesses have simply been paralysed, whether they've been liquidated in bankruptcy proceedings, in court proceedings, whether they've gone bankrupt or simply stopped working, but pro-forms exist at the Agency for Economic Registers, it doesn't matter. The important thing is that if we were to light a candle for each of these businesses today, for each of these legal entities in Serbia, we would really have a great light in the dark today, because these candles would really show how much we have destroyed our economy, how much we have gone back over the past twenty years. I come from Zrenjanin. Zrenjanin was an industrial giant in that great Yugoslavia, and today he is an industrial dwarf in Serbia. In Zrenjanin, for example, they went under the bankruptcy of many companies that once did very well. Amongst the latter, a bankruptcy case was launched against the stocking factory "Toucher". It's one of those 300 companies that were simply wiped out by some automation this July because they've been in a blockade for so long, they haven't fulfilled their legal obligations to workers and to the state at all. At the same time, there is another company in Serbia that deals with the same activity, therefore, with the production of those socks. Then the question arises how is it possible that a reputable company, a reputed firm, can't do business for so many years, can't do business? It is therefore good that it has been announced that a law will be passed to regulate the responsibility of the directors who led to this situation that a good company, a good firm will cease to operate and to initiate bankruptcy proceedings. As far as these bankruptcy managers are concerned, I really agree and welcome the solution contained in this amendment and supplement law that provides for bankruptcy managers to be chosen by the method of random choice, as it is assumed, as soon as they have been licensed to do the job, that they are professional and know that they are doing it. Therefore, regardless of which one of these bankruptcy managers is appointed, he will know how to do the job. At the very least, there's the Agency to control their work. It is now such that of 338 licensed bankruptcy managers, 235 were appointed at least once, and 103 were not once. So, a third of them never had a chance to be the manager of a bankruptcy procedure. Four bankruptcy managers were appointed in ten proceedings. We assume that these proceedings have been completed one by one, that they've gone further, but I don't know if that's the case. Then the question arises – how is it that four bankruptcy managers are so capable, so full of knowledge, so much expertise that they do, instead of 338 licensed bankruptcy managers, jobs that everyone could do together? When you look at that statistical data, then, of course, you question whether certain bankruptcy managers are favored. It is normal for us to try to eliminate any possible abuse, including abuses that may arise from bankruptcy managers. In the end, it is very difficult to determine whether the bankruptcy manager did all that was to be done, whether he did everything professionally and responsibly in the bankruptcy process; when the bankruptcy procedure was completed, did he really achieve the objective of the bankruptcy process and launched, which is primarily to calm down trustees. For example, trustees have so far come from these bankruptcy proceedings about 25% of their claims, and the costs are about 24% of the bankruptcy. So when the percentage is observed, then it is very close, as a percentage, and the settlement of the trustees, and the rich and costs that exist in this bankruptcy process, and a large part of these bankruptcy waste costs on the bankruptcy managers. We also welcome the introduction of a system for automated bankruptcy management and electronic reporting, which was introduced several months ago and which cost $420,000, with the help of USAID. This is one way to speed up the process, to achieve certain efficiency in bankruptcy procedures. Therefore, if this law really is strictly applied, with this information system we will most likely have a much more efficient way of conducting bankruptcy proceedings and much, much more rational and transparent. Therefore, we support any solution in these legislative proposals leading to efficiency, accountability and transparency of the process. A good solution is that the law strictly provides for reasons why bankruptcy can be initiated. That's good because we won't have any more bankruptcys to run when more companies, these companies won't be able to reorganize at all, they'll be able to start much sooner. We thus achieve a much higher goal of reviving the production and preservation of the healthy work, the healthy tissue of the company. When we talk about the debts that are actually the main reasons (so, indivisibility) for the launch of bankruptcy proceedings, there is one debt that has been raised these days, when in fact it has been explained that NIS, instead of three billion gains, has been shown at the end of 2008, in the loss of eight billion dinars. I remind you that last year we discussed in this assembly an interstate agreement between Russia and Serbia regarding the sale of 51% of NIS. We talked about it being a public company. We discussed that this public enterprise has certain obligations to the budget, to the state. We expected that there would be a huge gain, given that a profit of three billion dinars was shown. So there are certain amounts that the state can expect. But in the end, there was a loss of eight billion dinars, where the money was lost from plus three billion to minus eight billion dinars. There we can find elements of lack of transparency, accountability and, in any case, great damage to this country. Therefore, if the bankruptcy procedure is achieved in terms of reviving at least one part of the company that has reached insolvency or bankruptcy, in this case, the declared objective of this law has been achieved. For this reason, by giving the law on bankruptcy a chance, and the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agency for the LDP's licensing of bankruptcy managers, the LDP will, in the day of voting, support these legislative proposals, normally, expecting that these legal solutions will not be stopped, that the entire process of reviving the economy in Serbia will continue. You will allow, if you have 20,000 companies that have been blocked for over a month, so maybe several months, in which case the economy is in some kind of liquidity and the economy can't function because of what it exists. So there's no production, there's no serious work. Then business is removed from the public sphere, out of the transparency area, moving into some gray zone, which again leads to the loss of the state, because it loses on the tax. Loses, for God's sakes, and citizens, because it opens up space for new monopolies, and we also have old monopolies; we don't know what we're going to do with this old one, so we don't need new monopolies. So, once again, I want to confirm that LDP is for some of the solutions to this bankruptcy act. We are for solutions that will primarily cut costs. The length of the bankruptcy proceedings has already been reduced to 2.7, from two to three years, but it is not enough either, because it is also a long period to collect claims from creditors, and we know that every day is a loss for those who invest money, the loss is if they have to wait for that money, which is his money and which he would possibly invest. So these laws are a good message to future investors, and along with these others, which we also expect, some significant result in the business of Serbia can be expected.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30226	Thank you. Just to let you know that we will be working until the end of this part when the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, have an address, and tomorrow we will continue. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, who advertises? Nobody. Or is someone advertised? Please, does anyone advertise an injury? Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30227	Honourable MPs, respected citizens, ministers of bankruptcy, welcome. Those who say that this law has not introduced a lot of newspapers are wrong; I will start with Article 20, which, here, is the minister of bankruptcy, which is at the moment Mr Mladjan Dinkic. I ask, what does it mean to introduce a minister of bankruptcy, given the Constitution's prescribed independence of the judiciary? Perhaps Mr. Luka Andric, who sits next to you, will give you some meaningful explanation and a technically solved problem of choice from that manager's drum, but I don't think it's right for you to, for example, address your colleague Grujic in a way that you say is false, questioning the basic logic of bankruptcy. The basic requirement of bankruptcy, since the introduction of 1515 in Antwerp and 1542, when the first law was passed in England, is that trustees be reconciled, in proportion to their claims. Do not mislead the public and all of us that, in fact, over-indebtedness cannot be considered a basis and a reason, and in favour of the trustees, as a reason to launch bankruptcy proceedings. Article 150, where you perform on official duty, is precisely talking about this in the last position, where it is very nice to say that, according to official duty, a solution is made to launch a previous bankruptcy procedure, which determines the existence of legal interest of the trustee. However, how illegal it is that where the trustee does not seek, where the debtor does not seek the introduction of such a procedure, you carry it out, it will be a subject we will talk about later. What I'm saying is that you've made this law a complete mess in the legal system. The power to transfer to the executive power of bankruptcy management goes through your jurisdiction to run bankruptcy through bankruptcy managers. I'm surprised no one mentioned that you suggested to the bankruptcy directors the introduction of protection, like an official, under the Criminal Procedure Act. It is a shameful argument that you make in the proposal for such a solution and you say that their work is very responsible and in many cases they have had physical attacks because of this responsibility, many other inconveniences etc. Why did they have these and many other inconveniences, from which you are trying to protect them in this way? Is it because they did good, because they did good? Is this law bad or is it misused in application? Mr. Minister of bankruptcy, you have prescribed double-degreeness as a possibility, so you put that familiar point, and said, "If anything else or otherwise is not regulated." You have abolished the audit, which is amazing, for example, even for determined claims of over 100,000 euros. You can have the chosen person bring the paper on which there is no legal remedy. What improvement of the law are you talking about when you introduce complete legal uncertainty and delete legal remedies prescribed by the Constitution? You have prescribed by this law that a public undertaking, owed to a creditor for the supply of electricity or similar utility services, must not cease to deliver those services because bankruptcy has been introduced. Are you aware of what you wrote to that member of the law? With these and such companies, you create the possibility that by not charging the claim, there will be a bankruptcy, while at the same time protecting the person with whom the bankruptcy has been introduced. What, you need to make a bankruptcy manager able to make him not have to pay his obligations before he introduces the bankruptcy? It's not contradictory, Mr. Minister of bankruptcy, it's insolent, it's legal nebulosis. I'm surprised at the members of the government and your associates who let such material come here to the Assembly. What'd you figure out at the same time? That agencies and similar bodies, over which you have no control, no control, no control over funds or contracts, are excluded from the introduction of bankruptcy. For them, you bear responsibility, as founders, for your commitments. Where is it, Mr. Minister of bankruptcy, that for someone you can't control you guarantee the obligations he's taking, you're still protecting him from bankruptcy? All those agencies that are supposed to be ballast... Not apparently, they're ballast, you say they are, and you're not doing anything to get rid of that ballast, but they're protecting them here with this law. Basically, nothing changes with this law. The length of the bankruptcy two years, 2.7 years, that's a public story. What's reality? What happened before 2004, when the first law was passed, which is that it will be negotiated and decided at closed party meetings, attended only by the chosen ones; not in courts, not in wider bodies, not in the interests of the citizens, not in the interests of the employees, not in the interests of the trustees, but where the authority in the narrow circle concludes that it should. This accepted custom since 2001 has been a rule. There have been cases like this before 2000, but rarely, and not with such harmful consequences. Do I need to remind you of "Sartid"? You sold it for $21.3m, i.e. 16.5m euros, worth over 500m euros, decisions taken at the government's session of January 23rd 2003 and the Agency for Rehabilitation and Banks, March 28, 2003, against the government's decision led by Mr Zoran Djindjic. The decision, contrary to the team I mention, was made on 6 March 2003. Should I remind anyone what happened on March 12th? It was subsequently decided to sell "Sartid" and "DIN" differently from what was found at that cabinet session and was found to be a public tender. A lot of you would like to forget that. Five bankruptcy managers have been changed to "Sartid". A creditor was sold. The bankruptcy has not yet been divided, and you know who lobbies not to press charges in the Pelican affair. Some think the object is lost. No, he's not, and he'll be processed. The exclusive jurisdiction was then a trade court. And then and then you're just changing, the alleged legal basis was the government's jurisdiction and the Agency's actual, legal, commercial court. You've locked these people up, you've called them. Then and now you're trying to do this and this kind of thing on your own. Probably hit some commissions in the head; six million dollars in the Sartida case has been proven. This isn't insinuation. We'll probably hear about the rest. You know that before the District Court, the public prosecutor's office in Belgrade continues to be prosecuted. Do I need to remind the government that any laws she herself proposes do not oblige you ministers to apply them? To remind me that in only one case, government bankruptcy has been damaged by over 13m euros. Is anyone surprised what 13 million euros are? Mr Dinkic, Minister of bankruptcy, knows – The Robe houses "Belgrade". First you purposely pushed them into bankruptcy, then you sold them to the Italian Beneton, who, realizing that you were acting illegally, gave up buying; he did not want his reputation and reputation to trade for something incriminating, even if the government and court stood on the other hand. The department stores, to remind you, had property worth more than the company's total debts. You know perfectly well that I know that, as well as my predecessor, Misha Beko, Minister of Government. On those same papers, you're still building a tower of expense and bankruptcy, as you're still going to do. These debts could have been paid off by selling a piece of property, not by destroying the entire company and firing the workers. You have damaged the state, shareholders and employees of the company, although you have sold Belgrade Stock House in bankruptcy as a legal entity for around 380m euros, from these funds how you have made sure that trustees and workers, but let us not forget, Mr Dinkic, according to your announcement and methodology called Mladjan Dinkic, about 13m euros were paid out of those funds to former shareholders. I ask Mrs Malovic, as Minister of Justice, the Government and you, on what basis, on the basis of which law and legal provisions did you do so, Mr Dinkic? Such a provision does not exist in the law and constitutes irrefutable evidence of the government's self-will and irresponsibility. Your personal will, the man who introduces himself to someone who can solve everything. Since October 2008, you have signed a contract with the "Fiyat" today - will be in December 2009. You can't do that anymore. The traces of self-will remain as a permanent cost of the state. I have a duty to repeat that. So there was no such provision. You did it by your own means, you, as an expert who can do anything. It is, first of all, an illegal influence on the judiciary, which is a practice that lasts to this day. Such an illegal influence on the judiciary has also been achieved in a small value of bankruptcy, so the reorganisation, where you tried to remove your other Goran Novakovic from the door of the trustee seeking to collect his debt in full. Now it's a legal problem, I don't care at all, I absolutely don't care, but the problem you're leaving to the state, where a Lex specialise, like the Privatisation Act... Sublegal acts, so the rules of that agency have served you as the basis for telling a company – no, you have no right to open up bankruptcy. You're writing a letter to the court, where you're supposed to beg for bankruptcy not to be opened because it's a company in the reorganisation. One such document was shown here by Mr Tomislav Nikolic in this room. He asked a question and we got an answer saying – no, you didn't influence it, you asked the Commercial Court. What is it like when the government begs the person to whom it pays? How is it that someone who has proved his self-will can pass laws that are unconstitutional, which are contrary to all the values of European courts, human rights, the laws of this country, the budget of Serbia? And who wouldn't come out to meet you? When you're tired of lex specialis and the rules you're opposed to the independence of the judiciary you're putting above the law, you're bringing another lex specialis, which is this bankruptcy law, which gives you the right of a minister of bankruptcy to prescribe, also to the rules, the way that bankruptcy managers will be hired and elected. Let me tell my colleague: out of 450, 253 people never got a job, and some of the records are by the number of bankruptcys received. When you ask the workers what the law on bankruptcy means, they will say – it is a way for the state, if there is one at all, to legally deprive us of the right to pay, the right to retire, to enrich directors and bankruptcy managers. How was that possible? By introducing the law on bankruptcy, which you are now changing, the court is suspended, but not enough over to keep the law going. Now you've got a new one, where there's no revisions, two stages of appeal, it's irrevocable almost everything. You're just going to, you know, run a little background check on these fees and the rules for bankruptcy managers, which are reportedly going to change now. They muster most of them, so they decide, and change it as a change. Who can change the one you set up? Tell me one single case that someone has gone past your decision in the last nine years. Since the layoff of workers, through the abolition and closure of newspapers. Has anyone stood up to you? He's not your coalition partners. Maybe something for your internal trade, but the public didn't see it as a benefit, as a conflict of opinion that was positive for her. Who got it? For example, the bankruptcy managers, who (say, according to the current regulation), received only one bankruptcy of 540,256 euros, in the case of a very indicative, bankruptcy of Agrocombinate in Subotica, a bankruptcy effected by the sale of assets in parts. The most interesting part was bought by an interesting company called Victoria Group, just to remember, and this 540,000 is paid 75% in 2006, the rest in the implementation of the plan. The President of Justice is paying this fee with a rule of law, so he says -- it's not that much, there's tax, there's gross, so when it's divided into 12 months, it might not be that bad. I ask you -- do you know, for example, when I'm talking about Subotics, that there used to be, and they no longer exist or are in a state of clinical death: "29. November, "Partizan", "Kozateks", "Azotara", "Panonia", "Kozara", "Panonia Press", "Zorka", DP "Palic"? Many of these companies were sold in bankruptcy at a much lower price than real, and as customers, creditors themselves appeared. The "Partizan" bike factory (again an interesting owner later) was declared bankrupt in 2005. Here's how you carry out the bankruptcy, it's during your reign: the debts that could have been paid back at that time when the bankruptcy was opened, by doing the privatisation agency, which delayed the process's check, increased rapidly, so that when more than a year later what was once "Partizan", at the cost of 65,000 dinars, production could not continue, and more than a thousand workers were out of work. My motive for this high tone is thousands of fired workers. So the basic definition of initiating bankruptcy is reorganization, healing, calming trustees. But how will bankruptcy affect employment and the budget in terms of fiscal income? You forgot that. You think the only purpose of introducing bankruptcy is what you, the people who are failing to order or the others are willing to do. In the same way you have introduced this Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers, which is now, even though it is established and operating under the law, this law gives you the right to live longer. In fact, you say, and it is clearly seen from the law, that it will conduct bankruptcy procedures, through special party personnel, or bankruptcy managers. Who's done this before, Mr. Minister? Your Privatisation Agency, as if it were your own, which is deliberate and unconscious failures and by missing control of the contract by customers now of social capital, because it has done these bankruptcys, and how responsible it has gone into bankruptcy by a large number of privatised companies. Let me repeat just a few: “Progress” Ariel, “PKS latex” Cačak, “Raška” Novi Pazar, “First May” Bela Palanka, “Shinvos” Zrenjanin, PIK Zemun, “IGM Kolubara” Lajkovac and many others. If you think so, Mr. Minister... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... That we don't know how to read this law, you're wrong. You'll hear a lot more in the debate in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30228	The minister has a word. Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30229	Thank you. I would take the opportunity first to thank Mrs Judith Popovic and the LDP MP group, as well as the SPS Group, for a very constructive analysis of the law. Also, I would like to pay attention to what MEP Jorgenka Tabakovic just said. From the twenty minutes you've spoken, you've devoted the first two minutes to the law itself. It means either you didn't read it well or you didn't understand it well. I'll tell you where there may have been no reading or understanding on your part. In this first thing, when you said an overindebted procedure could be initiated, you quoted Article 150. Article 150, Mrs. Tabakovic, absolutely does not apply to that. Article 150 regulates the process of the so-called process. automatic bankruptcy, while a member of the 55th law regulates what MP Grujic and I have settled, which is the launch of bankruptcy proceedings by debtors in case of over-indebtedness. It says you've either read it superficially or you don't understand what it's all about, so I want to explain it to you. The other thing is, as far as you're concerned, there's no revision of the bankruptcy procedure in this law, you're right, and there's no need to be. It wasn't even in the previous law. But you're wrong when you say it's meant by the Constitution. The revision is not a constitutional obligation; it is an emergency legal remedy, which is used only in civil litigation. It doesn't make any sense to use it in a bankruptcy procedure, because a bankruptcy procedure should be urgent. If you had an audit, that means you don't have an emergency procedure. You can speak in big words – constitutional obligations etc. The revision is not constitutional law, nor is it foreseen by the Constitution, but rather an emergency legal remedy used in certain litigations, but never in the bankruptcy laws of serious countries, as it slows down the process that should be faster. You obviously didn't understand this part about public enterprises either. It is perfectly logical that in the event that a company goes bankrupt and another company buys a company in bankruptcy, the new owner cannot be held accountable for the unpaid electricity that the previous owner did not pay. In other words, the EPS is required to provide neatly with the current of the new owner and to settle from the bankruptcy table for those old claims. It would be illogical for a brand-new owner who bought a company in bankruptcy to retire by asking him to pay the debts of the old owner. That doesn't make any sense. That's all you said about the law itself. You almost didn't read it at all or read it carelessly, or you didn't understand it. As for the things you said outside of this law, which relate to some of the examples you have instructed, you said, quote you – you first deliberately pushed the RC "Belgrade" into bankruptcy. I would also remind the MPs and the public that the department stores went bankrupt in 1996. Indeed, at that time, as an assistant at the Faculty of Economics, I couldn't influence any of us sitting in this government right now to launch bankruptcy proceedings at the RC "Belgrade". Say – you deliberately pushed them into bankruptcy... I don't know who you are. Definitely, it does not apply to me; in 1996, the bankruptcy process in the RK "Belgrade" was launched. Then you're saying we allegedly damaged the state in that procedure. I have to tell you, this is the most successful bankruptcy procedure. It's not good that it took a long time, because unfortunately, in 1996, it only ended in 2007, from the moment that I, by chance, took over to run the Ministry of Economy. The Belgrade department stores were sold at a public auction, which was in front of TV cameras, for a sum of 360.000 euros. God forbid it's been another year, two days, if we'd gone into this crisis, we'd never get an estimated sum. By the way, I want to say that with these 360,000,000 euros, as achieved in the bankruptcy sale process, 100% of all creditors are calmed down, which is a rare case in Serbia. Total claims, i.e. commitments, were 160,000,000 euros. Of the 300,000 euros, 160,000,000 went to a 100 per cent settlement of creditors. Also, not by my will, but by the government's decision, we decided to pay special severance fees to employees for 11,000 workers who worked at the time of bankruptcy or previously at the shopping houses "Belgrade". This is not a payment on behalf of creditors, but on account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and on the basis of the government's decision to pay special severances from the budget. Since nearly 200,000 euros have entered the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we have decided to pay some, I think, 30,000,000 euros to former employees and 11,000 workers have received it. I wish in practice we had more cases like the Robe House case, that we could achieve in the auctioning process a higher price than the amount of claim. On the other hand, you mentioned the case "Sartida". I repeat, as in the case of Beka, Rada and all the bankruptcys launched before 2005, that this was not done under this law, where the Privatisation Agency is a bankruptcy manager, but the courts have already decided on it. I would like to join your question why the main debacle was not carried out, but I must say once again – it is necessary to ask the court for it. Whenever someone from the executive office, and I belong to you myself, I criticise the court, then they criticize me – why do you not respect the independence of the judiciary? But we really need to be open, honest, in bankruptcy proceedings, it's the court that's in charge. In particular, the court was the only one who conducted the procedure until 2005, when the bankruptcy manager took over the Privatisation Agency. In the case of Sartida, this is definitely a question for a court, i.e. a bankruptcy administrator, why the main deoba was not carried out, because the government never conducts bankruptcy proceedings, by old or new law. You also mentioned the problem of high rewards. I also pointed out that there were once high rewards. That was changed by the 2008 rule. You mentioned one case from Saturday. There's been a lot of cases like this. As far as the bankruptcy council is concerned, it's not fair to say that the ministers or the government are calling it a bankruptcy council. You know how many barrels we have; they will, fortunately, reform, reduce the network of courts. But indeed, the judges who name them bankruptly larger, so that changes in the determination of members of the bankruptcy council can be affected by no one from the government. Just so we don't have such a complication that we have both a judge and a bankruptcy grander, we are abolishing this new law of the existence of a bankruptcy council and we suggest that there is only a bankruptcy judge, which is derived from the drum, so by the method of random sampling. Once again, I want to say that my associates and I are really open to all professional and well-intentioned objections in order to correct this law, which I must say, unlike many others, has been done very thoroughly and since March of the month has been on the website of our ministry, experienced a very broad and long public debate. Tell yourself whether you often find in the laws an analysis of the effects of the regulations, as annexed to this law. It's not my fault, I must say right away, but I also want to commend Mr. Luka Andric, who is an adviser to this issue, and the whole team who worked for our ministry this law. I hope that the other laws that come to the congregation will have this quality. I also thank the parties that are not in the ruling coalition, who objectively assess this quality and who will support it, I am talking about LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30230	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The replica has Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30231	I don't want to take up much of my colleagues' time from today's work, but I really must say, in an attempt to defend myself for the RC "Belgrade", you have denied yourself. The 100% payment and payment of the trustees and the rest is in favour of what I was saying, that the debts were less than property. Mr. Minister, do you remember, I told you at the assembly pay phone that two buildings were forgotten in the sale of these department stores, owned by the government, and you sold them as assets of the RK "Belgrade". So don't brag about what's not to brag about. You tell me, you do not understand. I can't forbid you to talk one way or another, you can act like my high school teacher, but I always got the best grades and I was always the best student. But I'm not a student here. We can't read the law differently. You wrote that a public company does not have the right to suspend the delivery of services it has not charged. Kragujevac had the opportunity to feel this behavior when he was excluded from heating, electricity, whatever, because of the conflicts of government, intra-coalization misunderstandings etc. I don't even justify that case. If we are in favour of market economy, debt-confidential relations, for the Institute of the Court, for the Institute to collect what is sold, if there are VIP users of telephone services, heating, it can be maternity, hospitals, etc., but it cannot be your bankruptcy debtors that you want to prepare, donate, sell, sell, what, because there are various abuses, to treat as VIP users of public enterprises services, which many call for losses, poor profits, incompetence etc. You can't have double arches. We're speaking Serbian here and you haven't responded to my basic remarks. The bankruptcy law has a fundamental intention to reconcile the trustees. Overindebtedness, Mr. Minister, means that bankruptcy would not exist if they paid each other cash – you paid me goods, I paid you money. It's a bankruptcy, and it exists because it's credited and delayed, so it doesn't settle down. If you didn't know, the term "bankrot" comes from the word "bankarotta", when in the Middle Ages in Italy, those sellers who ran from the market did not settle the obligations of other sellers to break benches. So the precise definition of over-indebtedness, as a reason for bankruptcy and the opening of proceedings, is not legally implemented. As far as I'm aware of this law and whether or not I've read it, we're going to have a chance to further debate, when we move on to the speakers, to exchange arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30232	Mr. Secretary has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30233	Very short. So, I repeat what I said about Robing Houses. If a bankruptcy against the Robing Houses was opened in 1996, neither can I know, nor anyone from our government why it was done, or whether the debts were greater than the assets. So, the sale itself in 2007, 11 years after that, at a price that has calmed down the 100 percent trustee might mean that you're right, but I can't be responsible for what someone put into bankruptcy in 1996. You're not fair here. So whether bankruptcy was to be opened in 1996 should be asked who launched the bankruptcy. I don't know who he is, you can find out, it's probably not a secret. But in 1996 Milosevic was in power; I don't know who was in government, but it certainly had nothing to do with me. On the other hand, I want to make this member clear to you about public enterprises. The EPS must not interrupt the delivery of the new owner of the company purchased in bankruptcy only because the claims from the former owner have not been settled. If the new owner properly settles obligations, of course the EPS must not charge him for something that is not his debt, otherwise the EPS would be in a privileged position compared to other creditors, as it would charge from a new owner rather than from a bankruptcy. That's all it means. Finally, you say that the Serbian language did not explain the importance of over-indebtedness. We have chosen the simplest definition in the law, which is that the obligations are greater than the assets. In that case, the debtor himself may request the initiation of proceedings, under Article 55 of this Act, and the court may accept, and may refuse. The judge has the right to, if he's not sure, hire a court expert. It's an explanation and there's no need to make a mystification out of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30234	Thank you. The word is Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30235	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, we are facing a very important legislative project, which the ministry had to look far deeper, with far more concrete solutions. In this law, we have nothing to speed up the process, nothing that will allow creditors to get as much funds as they ask for. On the other hand, the costs of the procedure, as a third condition of insolvency, are very high. I'm going to try to show it now with the data that exists in our media, which the media has been publishing these days when bankruptcy is being discussed. Among other things, we have come to the conclusion that the pace of bankruptcy in the Republic of Serbia is 2.7 years. However, in these 2.7 years, both the grandmothers and frogs have been entangled – and simple procedures, which end for two discussions, and complex procedures that last for years. The bankruptcy proceedings against "Yugoscanka" have been going on since 1993, meaning 17 years, and will continue for 26 years, until this process is completed, given the repayment of creditors from the process. We have, say, "Kosovo Bank", whose procedure lasts 19 years, and many others. So we cut all of that into one, so we got 2.7. I'm just going to say how much it's in our area, in the region. The region has an average of about a year and a half, in the EU it is about 1.2, in the United States it is nine months. As for the level of calming down, we have 25% of the total claims. In Germany, there is 52%, in Croatia 30%, in Bulgaria, there is 32%, in Romania. So we are about twice behind developed European countries. With regard to the costs of the process, Serbia spends 23% of the bankruptcy mass. In Germany it is 8%, in Croatia it is 15%, in Bulgaria and Romania it is 9%. We're spending two or three times as much on the region again. These are real indicators that speak about what a bankruptcy procedure is in Serbia and how effective it is. On the other hand, if we take these eclectic examples, we have to talk about them, such as "Jugoscan", such as four banks and other banks in bankruptcy, just to tell you that there are currently 19 banks in bankruptcy, and in the process of liquidating two banks. Of the insurance houses in bankruptcy is seven, liquidated two; savings-credit cooperatives two and one in the liquidation process. Currently, there are about 2,000 cases in the bankruptcy process, which clearly speaks about the slow-down process, the enormous costs that "eat" this process; those who participated in financial transactions with companies and legal entities that entered the bankruptcy process will never see a percentage of their claims. What's the problem with this law, that's the problem with this government. This authority does nothing to speed up the process, which is best shown by the information you have in the government and by all state authorities, that the European Commission said in its 2008 report, among other things, that the judicial system is the most serious obstacle to attracting foreign investment. Furthermore, the European Commission is talking about the dispute of the judiciary directly affecting economic opportunities in the country; many companies are going bankrupt because of the inability to collect claims that are undeniable. This is a direct blow to the judicial system and the European Commission directly points to the country's acute problem. The most recent problem is precisely in the area of the judiciary, which has been repercusing the bankruptcy process, which is currently taking as long as it takes. In addition to all this I have stated, I must mention the underlying problems in the very procedure that you have tried to correct here, however, I do not see any correction shown in Article 11. The bill where you state the reasons for the bankruptcy process, or the reasons for bankruptcy, and you say in paragraph 1 – the reasons for bankruptcy are the more permanent incompetence of payment, the threatening inability to pay, over-indebtedness, non-compliance with the adopted reorganisation plan and if the reorganisation plan is carried out in an illegal manner. To stay for the first and second reasons, it is a more permanent incompetence of payment and a threatening inability to pay. If I don't read now, I don't have time, the provisions of the law are lame, incomplete and impeccable. They can only produce volunteering, volunteering judges, volunteering directors, volunteering of the entire system, which had to be far simpler, with far simpler measures and prescribed norms, create preconditions for real reasons, which cannot be changed. Unfortunately, you haven't changed this, and the same practice we had under that old law you inherited. You didn't want to change, just because you didn't want the procedure to speed up. You don't want to, it's obvious from those companies that have been in the process for years. What is more important to emphasise is that it is very harmful that the privatisation agency participates in the process. Now I'm gonna say why. The Privatisation Agency participates in the form of a bankruptcy manager and conducts the procedure. Those persons who are in a permanent working relationship with the Agency participate in this and receive compensation. On the other hand, you've been doing it, mostly your ministry, the same people who are in a working relationship have very high earnings; 2008 earnings were 87,000, which is almost twice as much as the average of the economy, 87,173,36 dinars. In addition, through rewards and fees (you also have fees) of the Privatisation Agency achieves enormous amounts of income and profit. This is not the end of the engagement of the Privatisation Agency. We have their participation in the boards of directors, their participation in the congregations of legal persons. It doesn't even end here, they're even executive directors in some situations, in legal faces. How long? With such high incomes, with this kind of engagement, etc. What's taking us so long, about 670 bankruptcy proceedings? That's exactly why. They don't care how long it lasts. We're selling a little property, we're making ourselves up, and we're having a great time. How much company does it lose? Here's how many companies are losing: the privatisation agency paid for a gross profit of 467,000,000, in 2007 653,000,000, in 11 months 2008, then I got an answer to the parliamentary question, 865.00 dinar. Look at the amount of funds, with a personal profit of 87,000 (that's the average of the Privatisation Agency) compared to 31,000 this year. It's a clear indicator of where the funds are being wasted and why those persons at the Privatisation Agency that participate in the bankruptcy process don't end, do nothing to end it. No one warns them. There is no social climate, no initiative by the state authorities to take action to speed up the process and end under some normal circumstances. What you signed in 2008, I'm going to give you right now, the rule on the basics and criteria for determining the reward for the work and compensation of bankruptcy managers, signed on your side on March 4, 2008, is actually talking about real crime. You've put them in a position so they can take as much as they want through the reward system. Unfortunately, there is no time and I will conclude, and I will use the remaining seven and a half minutes during tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30236	Thank you, Mr. Buha. The word is made by Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30237	Let me just say briefly that the Regulation provides that if the bankruptcy procedure is to be completed faster, the bankruptcy manager gets a bigger reward; if he works slower, he has a smaller reward. So it's changed compared to the previous period. There is no motive for a bankruptcy manager to do the procedure longer, because the new rule provides for a reduction in the reward if the procedure is longer, and vice versa – a bigger reward if it ends faster. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30238	Thank you. Mr. Buha has a word. You're reporting in replica form? You're misunderstood.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30239	Under this rule... I don't know when you changed, I found this act on the Privatisation Agency's website, it's in March 2008. I would just like to say a few examples: where the bankruptcy mass, which serves as the basis for the calculation, up to 250,000 euros, the bankruptcy manager has the right to receive a reward of 11/100 euros and an increase of 3% of the value of over 100,000 euros to 250, which can bring to the bankruptcy manager 86,000 euros. We know there's almost no warden, especially those who mean something to a bankruptcy council, today's bankruptcy judges, who don't have at least seven-eight bankruptcys that run parallelly, so then you see how many bankruptcy managers take. Here we have received information in terms of the parliamentary question, Mr. Moldovan, who has already received about 250,000, is expected to receive some compensation of 750; we have not received the answer and most likely will not. This is just one example of the amount of cash that is given to bankruptcy managers, with your knowledge, with your support, in the end of the case and with your regulation that has enabled them to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30240	Thank you. Mr. Alexander Jankovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30241	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to make my comment on the draft bankruptcy law. At the same time, I would like to present what the law on bankruptcy now looks like in practice and, based on this experience, to see how this new bankruptcy law will apply and what it will qualitatively improve. Given that I am a lawyer, but also that I own a bankruptcy manager's license, and that I often represent bankruptcy debtors in court proceedings as a lawyer, I can say that the new bankruptcy law will contribute to the acceleration and improvement of the bankruptcy process itself. There are several preconditions for that. First of all, I believe that the abolition of the insolvency council's institutions will lead to greater authority by a bankruptcy judge, who will, on the other hand, decide more quickly, will be completely independent in the work, and therefore there will be a smaller possibility of delay in making the conclusions and solutions themselves, on the one hand, as well as decisions on the possible complaints of creditors, on the other. If we look at the status of a bankruptcy manager, it's clear that he's changed, that he's going to change in relation to the current law. In fact, responsibility in the work is tightened, on the one hand, but on the other hand, the bankruptcy manager is granted official status. That's what the practice was looking for. This is a very good provision, which will certainly contribute to greater protection of integrity and independence in the work of the managers themselves, but will also strengthen their position in the event of some abuse of authority. As for the formulations of Article 24 relating to the renewal and withdrawal of the licence, I believe they are well balanced. In particular, it is important to ask the possibility of renewing the licence after three years, even if the manager did not perform the operations of the bankruptcy manager, with evidence that he was a member of at least three professional seminars a year. Once a licensed manager will be appointed to a place with a state position, and therefore he will not be able to perform his duties. In this way, it remains protected that after the end of its term of office in the state or any other service, he will be able to return to his profession as a bankruptcy administrator. Giving more authority and the board of trustees is a good thing, but there should be extra caution. Namely, as is normal, anyone who is owed the right amount of money, which cannot also be charged, mostly for years from the very fall in the default of a creditor, can lead to the situation that some decisions and procedures of bankruptcy managers are experiencing extremely subjectively, which can again contribute to frequent requests to resolve them. That's why I think it's a good formula to leave the final decision on the resolution of bankruptcy managers to whoever's professional for it, and that's the bankruptcy judge. This will reduce the ability of individual members of the Committee of Trustees, which will, as a rule, be of the highest order. The biggest problem so far when the bankruptcy proceedings were launched was the way one of the creditors had to make an advance to launch the bankruptcy proceedings. If we take into account the fact that the medium-sized bankruptcy advance was between 200 and 300 thousand dinars and sometimes significantly higher, and the circumstances that the trustee, as a rule, could have gotten his advance back only after the legality of the decision on the main deobi, it made it much more difficult to process itself. Putting forward the amount of advances to launch the bankruptcy procedure in the first payment order, as the priority costs of the bankruptcy process, and the change of such a practice for the slow return of advances can now make it much easier for the trustees to decide to submit a proposal to initiate the bankruptcy procedure. For when they are sure that they will receive their money within a relatively short period, not within a time period, often, and several years, they will certainly make it easier to lay down that amount of money. One more thing is crucial for the length of the bankruptcy process itself. It's a matter of lengthy court proceedings. If we take into account the relatively short deadlines in which the claim is challenged, the case itself, as well as the fact that the first-degree court case on the basis of such a disputed claim, is indeed quite quickly completed, then what has been a major problem years ago – this is the circumstance that, based on the complaint of the dissatisfied party in the second-degree decision, it is often more than a year, given the large number of cases that have been in work in the Higher Trade Court. Although these decisions of the Senior Trade Court are legally correct in over 99% of cases, they are very often slow due to a large number of cases. The expected reform of the judiciary and the introduction of a different system of appeals courts will greatly contribute to speeding up court proceedings. The introduction of special councils to decide by appeal on first-degree decisions in bankruptcy cases will, in fact, be the key factor that will speed up bankruptcy proceedings. Thus, coming to the desired hearing for the main division will be incomparably faster, which will encourage trustees to move into bankruptcy proceedings over insolvencyal legal entities. In our public, it's very common belief that bankruptcy itself is a bogeyman. Often the launch of bankruptcy over some legal person is a very difficult thing, both for employees and for certain local environments in which decades ago this legal person is the only thing that keeps that place from forgetting and completely extinction. However, often bankruptcy for insolvency legal persons is the only salvation. The rapid and successful completion of the bankruptcy itself, and the sale of the property of the creditor as a legal person, lead to the start of the production process in them and lead to the employment of the same workers who have often come to work for years and have not received any salary. This vision of the company's existence is now completely changing, and the buyer through the acquired assets without burden and debt can much easier start the production process. As a rule, over 70% of such newly employed workers belong to a group of workers from the pre-fashion process. I'd like to point out a particular problem that needs to be solved in walking. It's a problem of non-compliance with the tax laws with the bankruptcy law. Since the law on bankruptcy is a lex specialis compared to all other laws, this often arises a problem of non-compliance. As an example, I shall state the practice of tax administrations that, even after the sale of the creditor as a legal person, they continue to keep the pre-departure debt in their records. Since the newly formed legal person after the sale does not get a new PIB and the parent number, but retains the existing one, it is difficult to separate earlier debts; interest is still running and not put to zero, and what is percentageally charged through the solutions on the main margin is considered only as partially charged claim, i.e. debt. There are doubts in the customer whether they really buy a legal person without a debt. This situation is being dealt with quite hard and mainly through the letters of the bankruptcy council and the bankruptcy judges to the tax administrations, but it is not often the end of this problem. This is something that needs to be resolved really urgently and I urge all state institutions to take this as a well-intentioned suggestion and appeal. I would look back a little bit on the advertising process itself for the sale of assets. I believe that the introduction of a system of value of assets that is advertised for sale as a derogation from the mandatory rule, of course with the consent of the trustee board, is a good thing. In fact, so far, there has been a provision that any sale of property, whether partial or complete, must be published in three high-level lists coming out of the country's territory. This often led to self-conceived sales, for frequent sales of ads had to be repeated several times. In this way, the level of advertising costs could exceed the amount of the value of the assets or the value obtained in the public competition itself. I consider this to be a particularly good provision for this law, which is largely protected by the interests of creditors, so that money is not wasted from bankruptcy. What I would particularly draw attention to is the fact that the provision of a new law on the selection of a bankruptcy manager under the system next from the list for the territory of a particular court is a very difficult decision. It will often be fully justified and comprehensive, but there will be examples where such a provision of the law will not contribute to a good and rapid completion of bankruptcy. In fact, many bankruptcy managers who are about to get a license, as well as those who already have a license, have not had the opportunity to lead the bankruptcy of a large company. This can be a very difficult circumstance, and their inexperience can endanger them themselves, in terms of the possibility of making mistakes, but also creditors who expect bankruptcy to settle their claim to a greater percentage. It is therefore good that, in such exceptional cases, this law leaves the possibility of a bankruptcy judge departing from this mandatory principle, taking great responsibility for himself personally. On the other hand, the introduction of compulsory insurance for creditors against professional liability in the appointment of a bankruptcy manager, as provided for in Article 30, at the level of an insurance sum of at least 30,000 euros in dinar equivalent, can also be further protected by bankruptcy managers, but also by bankruptcy and all other creditors. This provision of the law, which is also aimed at protecting both the bankruptcy manager himself and all the trustees, I welcome. The Institute of bankruptcy and the reorganisation of the creditor remains largely unchanged, and that's good. The reorganisation itself is often a good way to recover a creditor, but there is another thing about the judiciary – due to the excessive scope of the case in the Higher Trade Court, when investing complaints about the adoption of a reorganisation plan to the second-degree court's decision is often waiting for several months, up to one year. During that time, the bankruptcy procedure stands; there is neither bankruptcy nor reorganisation can proceed with the realization. This paralysis in the work greatly contributes to the inadmissible extension of bankruptcy itself. What I said earlier, and what is related to the expected new network of courts, as well as the new jurisdiction of the courts, and the introduction of special judicial councils that will deal exclusively with cases of bankruptcy, will greatly resolve this situation and speed up the bankruptcy process itself. It may seem that I look too much at court proceedings, but believe me, from practice, their acceleration is the key to speeding up the bankruptcy itself. The provision referred to in Article 82 relating to the possibility of beating up a trustee's claim against a creditor, i.e. the regulation that this right is not lost by opening a bankruptcy procedure (of course, if this right has been acquired by the trustee before the proposal to launch the bankruptcy proceedings), I consider it a far better provision than the law so far. I believe this will contribute greatly to the acceleration of the resolution of the trustee's demand, and thus to the acceleration of bankruptcy. Finally, this law, with a proper media presentation, can lead to something even more important. It can lead to increased investor interest to purchase, through bankruptcy proceedings, property of legal entities that do not work mostly for years and whose production capacities do not produce a single dinar. In this way, here are the real opportunities for investment, in those business entities that have been only a burden so far, often on the state budget. As for the law amending the Law on the Agency's licensing of bankruptcy managers, I can say it's also good. The agency usually does its job well, and it's really well-organized. In view of the fact that the practice of mandatory electronic reporting of bankruptcy proceedings has been introduced, and that any document to be taken in the bankruptcy procedure must now be sent by electronic means to the Agency itself, which, on the other hand, follows the work of bankruptcy managers and legality in the conduct, is greatly reduced by the possibility of abuse, because once a document has been processed and sent to the Agency by electronic means, it can never be changed again, further corrected or installed. This is another prerequisite for faster implementation of the bankruptcy law itself. The Agency for the Licensing of Accountants in the Future should in particular focus on the further education of licensed bankruptcy managers and the organisation of seminars to discuss matters in practice, so as not to lose a step with the application of the law. The ZES parliamentary group will support both laws, as they are the key to speeding up the bankruptcy process, greater control in the work of bankruptcy managers, and ultimately faster resuscitation of those legal persons who often do not work back and do not work for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-11-0.u30242	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are done with today's work. Mr. Dinkic, Mr. Luka Andric and I thank you all. We'll continue work tomorrow at ten o'clock.
