ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34948	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert identification cards into your MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for us to continue our work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Milica Radovic, Balint Pastor and Zeljko Tomic. I would like to inform you that for the purpose of considering the draft law on items 9 to 13 of the agenda, I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of Ms. Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice, Dr. Diana Dragutinovic, Finance Minister and Mr. Verica Kalanovic, Minister for the National Investment Plan, called for the session to be attended by Ružica Stojljkovic, Assistant Minister of Finance Zoran Milosevic, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry. We move to the 9th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON COMPLETE OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION (individuality) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Pelevic, Milet Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Krasić, Zoran Krasić, Petar Jojić and Vjerica Radeta. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Before moving to a particular search, I would like to remind you that the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 148(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, is Article 148 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, as incompletely rejected an amendment submitted to Article 1 by a group of the 21st People's MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group, and the rejected amendment cannot be discussed and it cannot be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 10th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the important laws on the organization and business of economic units of the institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions (specificities) you have received amendments submitted by the MPs Nenad Konstantinović, Vjerica Radeta, Tomislav Nikolić, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Masić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Pjeljić, Mileta Radić, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Žalić and Draga Žalić. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009. The amendments submitted by the MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Peljević, Milet Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Colić, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Milorad Buh, Milorad Krstin, Mirko Munjić, Zoran Krasić, Nenad Popović, Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović, Sreto Perić, Dusan Marić, Miljan Šilarjan Žalić, Miranić, Mirić, Mirić Mirić, Mira Mira Mirić, Mirić. You received a report from the Finance Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I'd like to ask you to pull a hand brake when you're reading so we can work normally at this session. You may be in a hurry for the New Year's Eve, but certainly now it's the rebalancing of the second year of 2009. I'm sorry he's not the finance minister here, I'd like to hear some of his opinions, but I'm glad there's a minister of justice, and I'll explain why. I ask one question to the Minister of Justice, hypothetically, what would happen if this budget, or amendments to the 2009 Budget Law, were not adopted by this assembly? Is someone trying to trick us, the MPs, or is it trying to fool our eyes that someone is going to spend money on this rebalance during 2010, and the rebalancing is for 2009 and December 31st can't. Why are we asking this question? Because the rebalancing you suggested is pure form, the money has already been spent, and that is the problem. It was spent by everyone, approved by the Prime Minister and approved by the finance minister. So I ask the question – and what if the National Assembly does not adopt amendments and supplement the Budget Law? The government refused my amendment, I'll read the explanation. It says: “The amendment is not accepted, which is Article 47. The budget system law provides that if there is an increase in expenditure or a decrease in revenue during the fiscal year, the budget is balanced through rebalancing. As revenue was less than planned in 2009, it was also necessary to establish a new level of deficit." In fact, the 2009 budget projection was wrong. That's the whole story and the whole point of everything that's been happening to us for a year. The question arises – if the revenue side is smaller by nearly 35 billion dinars, what is the government, or the Ministry of Finance, what have they done to reduce a little budget expenditure? Or they thought that every party, every minister, especially if it's the party's president, could spend as much money as he wants, and if his wishes are not met, then the government falls. We are all now victims of the ambitions of small people in even smaller parties who blackmail not only the government of the Republic of Serbia, but are blackmailing all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Why was the 2009 budget projection wrong? I don't think all of this could have been quite so random. I don't believe it because in April, you had to make an emergency budget rebalance to get into a more serious project with the IMF. In order to enter this project, you had to have 3% of gross income deficits, that was the condition of the IMF, and in one false way you showed the amendments to the 2009 Budget Law. What happened was not an accident, because exactly when the projected revenues for 2009 and the revenue achieved are compared, such a discrepancies in the incomes associated with each other are seen. So it can't be higher income from customs, and it can be lower income on an additional value tax that's from imports, that's impossible, unless someone deliberately wanted to make that mistake. He can't be smaller. In April, income from corporate income tax, when final accounts are handed over and exactly how much of that revenue will be realised, cannot be made smaller. No taxes from natural persons, income tax and property from natural persons, because tax returns have been submitted. The whole 2009 budget imbalance farce was to create a basis for you to enter into negotiations with the IMF. Now you've spent money no matter what your incomes are reduced. The only goal of this whole rebalancing is that someone doesn't go to jail unless this law is passed. It's hard for us if every time you have fewer incomes, you don't rely on a reduction in public spending, but only on a further borrowing of the economy. I also ask my fellow MPs what do those who are going to vote for this amendment and the addition of the Budget Law think and who are going to repay these loans to which we are government, and the previous few backs, always owe us?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34950	Four minutes of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Rade Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34951	I will speak as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. I call on the minister of justice, I am sorry there is no finance minister, because today is December 28th 2009. It's on the agenda and Article 1, that's exactly what it's talking about, and the budget rebalance is on the agenda. This rebalancing is projected to increase the deficit from 70 to 104 billion dinars. So 34 billion is the difference between budgets. Why does it matter today? It is obvious that the money has already been spent, apparently, that the government has spent 34 billion without the Assembly’s consent. If the government allows itself to do so, how will it prevent local self-government or any public enterprise? If the new Rules of Procedure allows this debate to end in one day, what is the reason why we did not discuss October 1st when the deficit has already been exceeded? Why haven't we adopted budget rebalancing on October 1st, and why haven't we absolutely removed any doubts as to whether this is in accordance with the Budgetary System Act or not? If you are conscious of your spending and if you are in debt, it is obvious that Article 1 provides for a new loan of 34 billion. This cannot be done under any of the members of the Budgetary System Act, except borrowing, and borrowing is not possible without the Assembly's consent. This is another set of precedents made by the Ministry of Finance and this government, this is another violation of the Budgetary System Act, this is another destruction of the country's budget system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34952	A minute and 40 seconds of time have been used by the president of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34953	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, namely the SRS, are seeking and demanding that the budget deficit be established by law and respected by the state authorities in terms of the provisions of the Budget System Act. What the government has done since September or early October is a direct violation of the provisions of the Budgetary System Act. Namely, the Budgetary System Act defines ways and conditions when the budget has revenue less than those envisaged in the budget itself or has higher revenues. In this case, it is about reduced revenue in the budget, the provisions of Article 62. The law on the budgetary system is given clear instructions on what the state authorities, and the Ministry of Finance and the Government, in this case must do to rebalance the budget. Namely, Article 62. The budget system law is provided for as follows - if expenditure increases or incomes are increased during the fiscal year, in this case we have had a reduction in revenue, the Government may suspend, on a proposal from the Ministry, the execution of individual expenditures, no more than 45 days. Under the temporary suspension of execution, the next action the Ministry of Finance must do together with the government is foreseen to stop the commitment. Has the government made a stop to its obligations? No, I don't. Obligations flowed as the nature of the borrowing flow went. Furthermore, the finance ministry and the government had to take the next thing -- propose an extension of the agreed payment deadline. She didn't do it either. Then, stop granting approval to conclude the contract, and she didn't, stop using quotas, etc. These are all the measures the Ministry of Finance must make when revenue cuts and budget deficits are projected to break. In this case, the Ministry of Finance had to take these measures. This is a direct violation of the provisions of the Budgetary System Act. What this government has done is a bad example for all direct and indirect beneficiaries of budget funds, because they will do the same. With measures like this, by not taking measures to comply with the legal procedure and to stop the deficit increase, you have brought the whole state into debt. In what way? Anti-legislative means, not only republican authorities, republican authorities, through the increase of deficits in the budget, but also local self-government, direct and indirect beneficiaries of budget funds. What is important to stress is that this government does not take into account the drastic increase in budget deficits. In 2007, the deficit for the entire financial year 2007 was 13.5 billion dinars in 2008, 45.7 billion in 2009, nearly 105 billion. The 2010 budget planned for the 107 billion deficit. Can this power stop the rapid increase in deficits and can it be kept at 107 billion? He can't. The SRS warns the current government - stop the deficit through reducing public consumption by direct measures in the area of public consumption. Otherwise, this deficit, which you planned at 107 billion, will be 130 to 150 billion. What is still to worry about, is that, with the rapid increase in deficits in the republican budget, there has been a huge deficit in the province as well. You've allowed an increase in the 2009 circuit assembly to increase from 4.5 to 11 billion. A budget for Belgrade for 2010, a deficit of 17 billion. Local self-government will have several times, perhaps a few dozen times, a greater deficit compared to 2009, as it will be a huge deficit in local self-government budgets. How do you stop it? It can't be stopped without cutting public spending. In recent years, the SRS has submitted dozens and hundreds of amendments to how public spending should be stopped. Unnecessarily funded under labour contracts, specialised services, supplies of materials, various constructions and what is unnecessary, which must be stopped, what is currently unnecessary from the aspect of sustainability of the work of state authorities, the functioning of state authorities, is financed by everything and everything. That's why we have such a deficit. How do we cover it? We're covering for him by borrowing. Where are the conditions of this borrowing? How do we stop this borrowing, from what sources, and under what conditions do we do so? These are all the dilemmas you have to deal with. What is important to stress is that in 2010 we will have a reduction in revenue. Why? Because in the economic sense, we've over-indebted the economic operators. That number's down. We know ourselves that we have 70,000 blocked companies blocked by the tax administration for failing to settle tax obligations. We know that the tax revenues are 93 in the budget and the non-tax is 7% in the budget. When and how do you move these non-tax revenues to 10, 12, 15 and more and reduce tax revenues? How to relieve the economy, how to dissipate the public? It's a matter that the government has to deal with. But that's not what you're interested in. In the financial year 2010, we will have a new increase in the budget deficit, we will have a rapid increase in the tax obligations of the companies that work. How many companies are left? In a commercial sense, something about 110 is active, between 105 and 110 thousand enterprises. At this point, 70,000 has been blocked. Twenty thousand, according to your data, are in enormous indifference, disorderly fulfilling its obligations. Will the country's active measures result in a reduction in indifference in 2010? It won't, because in a budgetary sense, you didn't foresee measures to increase company liquidity, aid to the economy. What you've provided for a 3.5 billion subsidy is too small, it's too small a cake to meet the needs of a disrupted economy, the extinguished economy, the broken economy, the extremities of extremity, the economy that can't bear the burden of such a huge public consumption right now. What can we expect in the financial and budgetary year 2010? There remains a rapid reduction in the number of active operators, a reduction in their activity, a reduction in exports, a reduction in the allocation in budgetary terms and an even greater deficit. Is that what you're worried about? Don't worry. The only way out is through the side of borrowing and it has its limits. There'll be a moment soon when we'll go bankrupt as a state. We're on the verge of bankruptcy now, but it's not being admitted. Why? With the huge budget deficit, we have current payments deficits, we have foreign trade deficits. It was only accidentally stopped this year, downgraded from previous years, because the economic crisis in the world, certain problems in the domestic market, as regards demand and thus has been reduced and will be somewhere between 4 and 4.5 billion euros this year. We have a deficit in the operation of the Pension Insurance Fund, the deficit in the operations of the Health Insurance Fund, etc., deficit to deficit. We have huge problems in funding large systems, of 590 public enterprises and public-communal enterprises, 580 last year, in 2008, business lost. What's the situation this year? Worse. Perhaps we can only count on our fingers the companies from the public-communal economy that will deal with the profits. What is the perspective of these companies? What is the perspective of a state in such a situation, when the deficit is on the deficit, when we have losses in the public utility, when we have losses in foreign trade? There's no perspective. So, frankly, the SRS is telling you that we're going to be in a general bankruptcy situation. Stop those negative currents. This can't be done without the rapid cutting of public consumption. When we compare the 2008 budget, when there was about 45% separation for public consumption and in 2009 from around 43%, this year we are somewhere at 43.5% - 44%, no reduction. No cuts, no rapid cuts, no redundancy in the administration, but not in profits. Profits in the administration are small, but they're not in public enterprises. You have to stop it, and there's nothing you can do about it. Why? Because you have party colleagues working there. Profits in the public-communal system are higher than 35 per cent to 40 per cent compared to earnings in the state administration. Make it right. Anything that goes beyond that stopping, detachment into personal earnings, you transfer to the economy, so you'll see how you can pump into the budget far more resources. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34954	Since the time of the authorised representative, 10 minutes have been used. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34955	Madam Vice-President, Madam Minister of Justice, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again on Article 1, since this law actually has a Article 1 and another and a half member, including this provision when it comes into force. This article 1 says a lot. Income and expenditure data indicate and answers many questions. Let's say, I don't know if there's a consensus, I'm glad there's Mr. Peric and Mr. Colakovic, the question is whether the crisis is over, because we hear announcements that the crisis is over and that everything is moving better now. On the other hand, although the budget law has not yet entered into force, we have announcements from the government that it will not actually be respected, that it will be respected for the first few months, and that it will then freeze both wages and pensions. Yeah, we heard that from a very high place in the government. If you haven't seen, Madam Minister, that statement, we'll be happy to show it to you. When compared budget revenues for 2008 and 2009 and revenues per month, last November's budget revenue was 49 billion, in December 68 billion. So budget revenues were practically 50% higher in December than in November, and this year's revenues in December will be equal to the revenues of November, 56 billion in November, 57 billion in December. So, not that there's no growth since last year, but there's income at the same level, which means that only the reserves our citizens had and which were intended for consumption have decreased significantly, and that doesn't in any way indicate that next year will be provided for growth and that next year we'll take the upstream line. The second thing, when you look at how the budget is planned and how the state money has been spent, the deficit was only two billion in November, in December there will be 25 billion, which means that the government has left absolutely all payments for December, and then to see what it will do. On the other hand, the DRI as one of the key remarks was that last year the final account was not closed with 35 billion which were illegally transferred from 2008 to 2009. According to the data we have, this is drastic, and what the DRI is going to find next year is just gonna see. It is clear that the Budgetary System Act is being violated. This is not a loan for liquid liquidity, this is obviously borrowing, it's visible from Article 1 because we're in charge of an additional 35 billion. That's not allowed under the law. Any borrowing must take place only after the Assembly. This borrowing is already over, because these are securities of value and these are the auctions that are published every Tuesday and every Thursday. So that's what the state is in charge of, we're subsequently verifying. I don't see any reason why it wasn't done in time. The second thing, the revenues are obviously decreasing, which absolutely does not indicate that the crisis is ending, on the contrary, only that the government's measures were inadequate, that they solved the problem only at a certain point and that there is absolutely no strategy on what will be next year. It is also evidence that the government is not planning any new jobs in 2010.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34956	Three minutes and 20 seconds of time have been used by the president of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Nenad Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34957	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam Minister, the end of the year is the time when accounts are brought down in all normal states, reports of annual work, analyses the effects of the previous year of measures taken and estimates of all plans, including budgets. Of course, at this time plans for next year should already be delivered, so predicts the budget calendar, but unfortunately, no one is paying attention. It wouldn't have happened if she'd been paying attention, that every year that calendar changed, and she'd always be late for delivering budgets in the procedure to the National Assembly. We've been late for over a month this year. Only our government believes it is normal for the budget to be passed earlier than the rebalancing for the previous year, so today, instead of discussing some very important things that depend on the lives of the economy and the lives of the citizens, we are discussing the rebalancing today, December 28th. Madam Minister, the budget is not a final account but a plan to spend and raise funds. This way, as we represent him here today on December 28th, he practically represents a plan of execution. First we adopt the budget for next year, then the budget rebalance for the current one. God forbid it's the biggest problem with this government. I also have to say, for the sake of truth, the governments of other countries have increased the deficit, someone to 5%, someone to 6% and 1% and 2%, but almost every euro of that increase has been invested in revitalisation or banks or the financial system, and largely in employment. So the packages of the big countries were much bigger than ours. America over 2,000 billion, Germany over 500 billion, France over 200 billion euros, but has been invested in reviving the economy, preserving the financial system and reviving banks. The last case is in Austria. We're always saying, it's known that the budget is the most explicit statement of economic policy of any government, but in this case, the government has not reached a conclusion where it leads us. We hear from several ministers that the budget is developmental, from several ministers we hear that it is social, from some we hear and that it is developmental. We heard from the opposition that he was destructive. As we discussed the 2009 budget and the first rebalancing process, we said the budget was without a development component and should therefore be changed and, on the other hand, the budget was proposed without projection of the fact of the global economic crisis on Serbia. I'm talking about the last one. When there are no new investments guaranteed by the budget, when agricultural subsidies are reduced, I am talking about the previous ones, when excise increases, there is no talking about development. However, we have now obtained a rebalancing of such a budget with recognitions that the revenue sides are not well planned, and that the deficit in the cash register must be greater than the one you proposed in April, and that by 50%. The increase from 70 to 104 billion dinars, without any changes in the expenditure plan, represents, in my opinion, a precedent. The 70 billion deficit is too big for any country, of course, for Serbia even more. Nevertheless, less than 100 billion euros have been allocated for the economy, and the deficit has been increased by 350m euros. Also, I want to remind you that the 2008 deficit, when this government was elected, was planned for 14.8 billion dinars. That's when we said it was unreal little. Now the deficit is six times, 104 billion in a year and a half, and it's probably real. Repeat, there's no problem in borrowing. Serbia according to all of the world's criteria and is not an over-indebted country, but it is at some limit that if we take credit for consumption, then we are really getting into a debt problem. If we invest in the economy, there's no problem with that. The basis of any borrowing must be investment in the economy. Let me add that the key reason for this rebalancing is not yet known to anyone. If everything you've shown in the rebalancing proposal is spent, if 719 billion are spent, and 615 is charged, and now it's the end of the year, we can't change anything. I don't see any fundamental reason to discuss this. We can basically just vote. I'd like to add something else about this rebalancing thing specifically. The biggest flaw in the rebalancing process, however, is not his changing revenue side, although it is full of failures from the government, Prime Minister Cvetkovic. The biggest flaw in the proposed rebalancing is that it foresees that budget expenditures for next year remain the same as in the original proposal and amount to 719 billion dinars. When we see that we have a problem on the income side, it might have been estimated in July, August, and we definitely knew in September, so the cost plan had to be reduced. That's perfectly normal. Any businessman, any host, if he had left an unchanged cost plan in his company or in his home after knowing that his incomes were not realised as planned, would certainly have gone beyond that knowledge to some restrictions, savings, giving up on some unnecessary investments. The current government knew the revenues would be lower, but it continued to spend as planned, and the problem was that the plan was badly done. The expenditure side of the budget is not even shown in the rebalance proposal, except for deficits and budget financing expenditure. The deficit rose from 70 to 104 billion dinars. Debt repayment has been cut by 2.5 billion dinars. The repayment of debts to abroad from 13.5 to 9 billion dinars has been reduced. The return of debt to domestic trusts from 130.5 to 133 billion dinars, i.e. 25m euros, has been increased, resulting in the sale of securities from the value and repayment of loans to commercial banks. This budget rebalance is nothing new and really represents the continuity of the budget-making approach, when the expenditure-based budget is still being created. We're making a budget based on expenditure. The fundamental lack of a draft budget ahead of us consists of a reduction in revenue, while expenditure on social transfers and salaries in the public administration has not been reduced by a dinar. The projected deficit in this year is a good result of the steady growth of government debt abroad and domestic banks, so it turns out that businesses and citizens are increasingly working for interest, and there was no essential investment in the economy and in capital projects. In addition to the fact that the previous rebalancing was announced as restrictive, thrifty, it still led us to a budget deficit of 104 billion dinars. What would have gotten into us if that budget had been developmental, as announced for next year?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34958	Nine minutes and 50 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34959	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, unfortunately, and this amendment I have submitted has not been adopted, with the government's explanation - the amendment is not accepted for reasons that it does not comply with Article 28. Budgetary system law. I don't know what the point is, that it's not in accordance with the Budgetary System Act, if we criticise and want to improve this bill of yours on the budgetary system, which found that the budget consists of a general and specific part, which is mutually consistent with the types of expenditure. The general part of the budget shows aggregated expenditure by species, while in particular these expenditures are sorted by users. ''Besides, the amendment proposes a reduction in expenditures of, I say, a reduction in expenditure, 19 billion dinars, which is unacceptable in relation to the implementation of expenditures in the past part of the year and the need of budget users. '"All that the SRS suggests is unacceptable to you. Now I'm going to tell you some facts. With this amendment, we wanted to reduce your deficit from 105 billion to about 80. I don't know what's wrong with that. To focus a good part of it on what you won't do, to focus on the agrarian, to focus on the agricultural land, i.e. to allocate more budgets to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, which will distribute this to those who need it and who are now social with what they receive from the Ministry, i.e. of the Serbian Government. Did you, Mrs Dragutinovic, know that ten days ago, tax payments were made to non-registered agricultural holdings, but to individual agricultural producers? The registered agricultural holdings in Serbia have only 360,000, and that they have all registered should be around 700,000. What's going on here? These solutions are on the payment of taxes for 2008 and 2009. In two years. Contribution in two years. Do you know what it means when today or last week, if you looked at the New Sad, Belgrade Stock Exchange, it doesn't matter, the price of wheat is dropping, it's getting a little higher, and it's falling again because there's no one to buy? I just can't believe it, and on the Committee on Agriculture, we're getting the knowledge that only one of them is looking for 300,000 tons of wheat. Unbelievable. Is it possible now to impose on a farmer at once in two years? The corn is in decline. The cattle are stagnating alive, because it's pig's time, so it's still kind of stagnating there, but there's a low price. How can you charge them, Madam Minister, if you don't know that the wheat has not yet been paid, if you don't know that the brewing barley has not yet been paid, if you don't know that the livestock barley has not yet been paid to those farmers, of which you want to pay a contribution within 15 days or as they say tax? It's just amazing. You didn't wonder how those solutions got here. The main item is the water contribution, and that includes a special giro account, where the Vode of Vojvodina writes. Part goes to the Republic of Serbia, and part goes, looks like, part of the Republic of Serbia or don't give God what we suspect, especially for the Vode of Vojvodina, and that's the biggest item in that contribution, in that tax as they popularly, can't wait, they want to say. I can't understand why you haven't looked a little bit to see those who've leased huge acres of land, and they haven't even paid a penny yet, and they're processing them. We've spent a year and more days renting land and not paying the rent of state land. Take these, not those that have not yet been charged, and produced in 2009, and ask for 15 days of payment of the contributions. It's something they'll hardly be able to fulfill. I don't know how. Will you start with the forced charge? I repeat, it's 15 days. It started 10 days ago, which means they should pay by Christmas. That's a nice card. They couldn't expect a better card from this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34960	Three minutes and 20 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Mirko Munjic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger is Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34961	This amendment calls for budget revenues to be increased from a total of 615 billion to 620 billion dinars, while expenditure on budgets and acquisitions of financial assets projected in this amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009 amounting to a total of 720 billion to 695 billion. In fact, spending would be reduced by 24 billion dinars. The government, in its explanation, says the customs revenue projection is based on three elements, that these are imports' movements in 2009, that this is the level of customs rates and that these are customs revenues from January-November 2009. With this in mind, the government assures us that the forecasts will in fact be that it is expected that the customs-based revenue will be at the level foreseen by the draft amending and supplementing the 2009 Budget Law. We find these predictions unrealistic. Many things change dramatically from day to day, and it has indeed been fatal for the state of Serbia in general to design such imports. Excessive imports are killing the country. It is clear to us who is the import lobby, what is the interest of the import lobby, what are the merits of the import lobby in creating and functioning this government. However, where will Serbian citizens bring such imports, imports without any control, imports without any logic, without a clearly defined goal and plan, imports of everything and everything? Indeed, imports only to meet the megalomaniac needs of a small number of people. The reduction in budget expenditure of the proposed amount of 24 billion is, in fact, in our opinion, only the lower limit of the reduction and is fully in line with the principle of general savings. This government is calling for belt tightening, but unfortunately it appeals to the tightening of other people's belts and that belt that's tight around other people's stomachs. These impoverished citizens of Serbia, these losers of transition cannot tighten the belt. Let the government show little understanding for these losers of transition, let on its own case of belt tightening show citizens how it is done and then it will be better for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34962	One minute of the MP's time was used. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Stevanovic has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from Ambassador Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34963	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam Minister, the fact that you have rejected all amendments that have been submitted to this draft amending and supplementing the 2009 Budget Law, to be honest, is not something that surprised anyone in the SRS, but even the opposition, in fact, those who were willing to submit amendments. We said that in principle debate, the rebalancing is necessary and you can't be creative or smart, but then those who write what they write and in the name of the government explain that they have refused amendments should at least show some correctness. Here's why. How can we get into a situation where we do budget rebalances, correct planned revenues, or expenditures, especially when it comes to expenditures, and say that from the aspect of the Budgetary System Act, which speaks of principles of efficiency, economics, rationality, etc.? We have here proposed this amendment to cut expenditure. Of course, you say, compared to the execution of expenditure in the past part of the year and the need for budget users, it's unacceptable. So the government obviously didn't design this budget well. The fact is, the greatest evidence and confirmation of all criticisms and suspicions of the SRS in relation to the government's economic policy is indeed proof and confirmation of this is this budget rebalance. Maybe we wouldn't have the right to say something like this, if this were the first rebalancing this year, but this is the second rebalancing. You had a bad budget projection, and you had to correct it with your first rebalance, and a few months later, we're doing second and second adjustments again. We can understand that some extraordinary incomes have come. At that time, not only would we not tolerate the amendments, but these amendments would be completely different in their essence and character, how to schedule that surplus, but we here are talking, first of all, about the reduction in income, and the government certainly didn't save, but the expenditures went the way it wasn't planned. It's embarrassing that you're referring to the Budgetary System Act when you refuse our amendments. It's not correct, at least. The debate on this rebalancing, the 2010 debate on the Republic of Serbia's budget, is in complete contrast with the budget calendar. Even when we say that – the budget calendar, I guess it's kind of dreary for the government, but in public to say that the budget calendar is part of the Budgetary System Act and the government is not ready to respect the Budgetary System Act and through it the budget calendar, but it is referred to the Budget System Act when it is necessary to reject our amendments. That's why we can't accept this, which is why we can't accept any of the arguments you've made for the 2010 budget projection. There are many reasons, and among them is this rebalancing that we are now talking about, which is why it really falls into shadow and doubts everything that you represent in your economic policy. When I tell yours, I don't mean you personally. Your commitment, methodology and knowledge of all of this that you are dealing with cannot be challenged, but you are the victim of the fact that these actions are not guided by economic logic, science, theory, but by the necessity that arises, we will repeat for the hundredth time, from the sick political ambitions of individuals who ingest state money through the ministries. The DS may agree to be the victim of these blackmails, but we don't all have to be victims of these and such blackmails and unreasonable demands. We were witnesses here a few days ago, we talked about an agreement relating to a new borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, and that agreement was represented by the minister of sports in the government. Do you know how the agreement with 30m euros was presented? The deal is good, we get 30m euros from the Government of the Republic of Italy. Since we have realised one of these credits over the past period, the grace period is six years, the repayment deadline of a total of 13, interest is 1%, money will be invested in small and medium-sized enterprises. Then you go into the agreement and basically, what it says in that part of the text that you can't change in the Assembly. Then you find that only 40% of the total amount of loans per the concession element, the model, and that these conditions that we received from the government in the Assembly are valid for only 40% of these funds, and that the rest will be agreed in the signing process that will be signed on behalf of Serbia by the National Bank. You go one step further, and there you see that the credit condition up to 70% of the funds the Republic of Italy gives us is to be used to purchase goods, techniques and technology from the Republic of Italy. Whose government won't make such a deal with us? It further states that all decisions will be made, i.e. monitoring the programme from the loan, will be followed by a consensus, or committee to follow it. But no matter what the consensus, the Italians got a majority on that board. The audit is determined by them, they all give consent. Here it is represented by the triumph and successes of the government. The public needs to hear that. So we criticise, so we dispute the economic policy that you represent, lead, which you impose as something good and as something positive. In economic terms, we do not seem to be able to expect anything better in 2010, if it is not the same, certainly, in the area of spending public funds, or public finances, there will be no change compared to 2009.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34964	Five minutes and 15 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Radojko Obradovic, so the MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34965	I welcome the Minister of Finance. While you were away, we discussed the legal aspects of the budget rebalancing law. Now we're gonna talk about some other things. We are back on Article 1, since it defines everything, everything that is important for the 2009 budget, i.e. the 2010 base. You pointed out in statements here in the Assembly that in the medium term one of the main problems is the solution to the issue of wages and pensions. I have to admit, first of all, to thank the IMF for the transparency, because in fact, without the IMF, it's hard to know how these negotiations are going, what's agreed and how really things are. Once we get on the IMF's homepage, we get all the documents we need. About wages and pensions, you were absolutely right. All that you have reported that the conclusions of the negotiations with the IMF are absolutely up to the last letter on their Internet presentation. You remember, a month and a half ago, when the IMF representatives were here at the Assembly Hall, there was an open debate about exactly what was agreed and we had statements from the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of social affairs Mr. Krkobibic, who said this was a freezing moment, that pensions would only be brought into line with profit growth, that the reform would be implemented in a very carefully chosen way and completely denied everything you said, representatives of the IMF and what the governor of the National Bank said. We now have a document called the letter of intent, the date of December 3rd, and that fellow MP, ladies and gentlemen, stands absolutely everything the finance minister said at that time. I don't know if there's communication in the government, because it's just amazing that we have so different conclusions about such a serious thing as pensions. There is no word here about what Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Krkobic said. Namely, on page four, the nominal freezing of pensions will continue in 2010, and the next alignment will be in April 2011. What's interesting here is that applying this measure leads to pension expenditures of around 395 billion in 2010. If I'm not mistaken, in a budget adopted last week, that item is 457 billion, so the difference is about 60 billion. So it says 60 billion less here than it says in the 2010 budget. That's more than an interesting thing. Total expenditures were 215 billion, through the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour, contributed about 240 billion next year, which is 457 billion. It says here 395 billion. Pension growth will be exclusively in line with inflation. So there's no letter of any other harmony. It is very interesting that it will be signed that the medium-term goal will be to reduce profits in the country's sector to about 8%. Therefore, further structural reforms will be needed in the education and health sectors, in line with the World Bank's recent recommendations. I remind you, when those recommendations of the World Bank came out, that both the Minister of Health and the Minister of Education said that it was absolutely not acceptable and that it was out of the question. It explicitly says here that it's going to be approximately in line with those recommendations that we talked about here, so we're not going to waste time on that right now. It is further announced that a request will be submitted at the end of February, but that expenditure on pensions from 13% in 2009 will fall to 10% in 2015. So no employment growth, slight VAT growth, low inflation, and pension expenditures are 30% lower within the next few years. How is that possible if the number of pensioners grows? Only next year, 20,000 pensioners were projected less. I don't see any other way than to make pensions less and less. Then there's none of those declarative goals we talked about. Finally, the document was signed by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic and National Bank Governor Radovan Jelasic. Dominik Stros-Kanu, Director General of the IMF, has been directed. So, I don't know if there is communication in the government, but it's obvious that what they say about salaries and pensions, as the finance minister said, is absolutely consistent with what the government adopted, which was handed over there, and it has nothing to do with what the Minister of Health, Minister of Education and Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Krkobic said, and that is what we are all very concerned about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34966	Since the time of the parliamentary group president, five minutes have been used. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted together to the 1st amendment. The word was requested by MP Nenad Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34967	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, the government's April 2009 rebalancing proposal predicted that budget revenues on this basis would be 12 billion dinars. That's when we made the amendment, Mr. Minister, this may be one of the few amendments where I have a personal objection to you personally because you didn't accept it then, you're the same university professor, we suggested that universities be exempt from it, we invest in science even ten times less than European countries, and five times less than Croatia. Only one-third of the planned funds have been realised and budget organisations are now required not to pay 40% of their revenues to the budget to practically amnesty. I really don't understand that. We suggested that universities be excluded, perhaps even medical institutions. Wait, Madam Minister, that's when we suggested, and you refused the amendment, it's been six months. We have now heard that some oral decision by health institutions and universities is spoken orally, I do not speak by accident, I associate with professors from colleges, deans and doctors, managers, now we want to amnest them, they are told – you do not have to pay. We can't do that. We don't have to pass the law. It's unrealistic. Why take those 40% away from them? People at the university, health workers, they earned it, anyway, with the lowest wages in the region. He'll go abroad. We've been against it from the start. Let them make those funds, let them make money, God forbid there's a lot more of them. It's unrealistic for the state to take from professors and health workers. You've passed the law. Now you haven't made that decision. Now I ask the question – how is it possible for the Government not to implement its own decisions with direct beneficiaries of the budget? Imagine when an economy wouldn't pay taxes. The law can't apply to one and the other can't apply. When it comes to citizens and businesses, the government is very zealous, it's positive, Madam Minister, in implementing that policy, it's very zealous and the collection of income, it's going well enough to go into the budget. I will ask the question again – why did the law that you have brought criticise it and ask it not to be passed? That's the basic question. We have proposed that these payment obligations be released to universities and all higher education institutions and thus ensure their development. That's very important. And now we insist on it and we will insist on the future. Science and higher education institutions need to be able to develop. In order to leave quality teachers, assistants, young assistants, we need to enable them to make money, to work despite the regular incomes they receive, we need to enable them and we don't need to charge the budget with their incomes. You pointed out in your explanation why you did not accept this amendment, that the projections of the budget users' own revenues were wrong, that you had to reduce the percentage of the allocation, in order to allow their normal functioning. I received this amendment, this very amendment back in April, very personally, because I'm doing scientific work myself, and then I have a lot of colleagues and friends and they've all been hit. On the one hand, I am now pleased that you have accepted what was probably not realistic at the time, I would say that it is not fair to scientific workers, according to teachers, also to people in health institutions, but I cannot accept the principle that after six months when we see that something is unrealistic, that they will not be able to live on it, then I give some orders to give instructions not to do it. The government has not implemented this decision. I'm saying, on the one hand, I'm glad, but it shows that government projections very often, this is also evidence, were wrong. We're wasting a lot of time, unfortunately, in the government's wanderings. We're wasting a lot of time. This can indeed be devastating in such a difficult economic situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34968	Time used by the parliamentary group for three minutes and 20 seconds. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34969	You can count this as a time of authorized representative. Mrs Dragutinovic, the main objection to the opposition, this is already the fourth budget you are proposing, and we have been shown unclearly everything that relates to the formation of GDP. In either of these four draft budget laws, you have not shown us all the data needed to participate in each branch's GDP. I will try through several data that we can get on various sites, and as the president of the Industry Committee, I have been present on several occasions at meetings of the Committee on Construction and in various other committees in the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, and I have received these data in this association. In the area of construction, you've shown no involvement. Some data suggests a real scale crisis in the area of construction. In 2006, 18,162 apartments were built, in 2007, 19,049, in 19,800, in 2009, 2,000 even say less than 2,000. You see, this is almost ten times the number of apartments built than it was in 2008. In that association, we received information that everyone was on collective vacation in August and such a vacation was continued in both the ninth and the tenth months. Why? Because their product supplies were so high, they didn't have customers and they had to stop production. Your synthetic indicator here is that construction is down by 22.4% compared to 2008. Tell me why you came to 22.4, if the size of the housing is ten times smaller, if the construction operation has almost stopped its production, if the volume of services performed in the basic part of construction has been halved or perhaps four times smaller, how did you get to 22.4%? What's the situation with agriculture? According to your data, which you showed in the 2010 budget, you indicated that the volume of agricultural production was increased by 2%. It has been increased by volume, but in a financial sense it has been reduced by 18%. You sometimes use natural indicators, sometimes financial indicators, sometimes combine both and come up with some haired data that means nothing. You have proposed four financial acts, we have not received in any way what this assembly needs to receive – how does GDP form? How much is the participation of the economy? How much is agricultural participation? How much is the participation of tourism? How many stores are there, etc? Then we need to see how this is compared to 2008, as compared to 1990, as the reper year we are now using in certain indicators, to show some advantages in some branch or some weakness. I'll only point out to you in the area of economy, the volume of economic production is 51% compared to 1990. The volume of 2009 in the area of economy corresponds to the economic product or production of 1967. If you don't stop this trend of blockage of the economy, blocking companies, liquidity and insolvencies of the economy, we're going to enter the fifties, even in the '40s. There's no end to it. Now what about these economic operators that are blocked? We've passed a bankruptcy law, only after a third year will the state initiate bankruptcy proceedings, and until then we have this color that we have in the area of economy – blocked, indivisible, messy payment, unmistakable obligations, because you don't have the strength to stop these negative flows. Imagine that we are now on a commercial product in 1967, when we used FAP trucks and TAM trucks, etc., when we had, minors, a physical way of doing things compared to modern systems and modern technology that we have today. We have this technology and we can use it, but we need to enable the economy of the environment, financial resources and market conditions to work and to economicise. Without it, there's no economy. What the SRS is asking is that everything you say in the budget, and especially in the context of the budget to be concise and clear, not buried with thousands of data that are not needed here. Here you list the legal regulations you used to draw up the budget. We don't need that. It's common knowledge. Why do you list them here, dozens and hundreds of data that are not, and what is necessary, what makes the essence, the core, the foundation of every system, and even the budget system, you didn't specify it. The GDP just can't be found anywhere. Why? Because he's getting a haircut. How did you get here, I'll read to you, how did you get to three, you said between three and three and a half maybe four percent of the GDP drop in 2009, if the volume of industrial production was reduced by 15%, the processing industry was 19.4%, real traffic in trade was slightly reduced by 10.2%, the decline in tourism is 4%, the value of construction works, you say, constant prices of 22.4%, the volume of traffic services 14.6%, the volume of postal activities and telecommunications increased by 26.9%? Why didn't you show it financially, get a real financial picture? Don't combine, sometimes by volume, sometimes by financial indicators. When are we gonna get that? Without that, there's no... That's the basics, that's the theory, that's what you teach as a university professor, that's how you teach students, with the right ones, with the right ones, with the complete, clear and the same questions, but here, when you have to show the right data, we get the haired data. You have to admit, these are the haired data, and that's what some economic analysts are saying. As far as GDP is concerned, he's in the fog. Who knows him? No one knows him, because it's unrealistic, but it goes back a few years. If the moment you took the resort, if you had started with the right data, then it would have been much healthier to set up all of your measures and activities in terms of overcoming such a bad condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34970	You have been used the total time available to you as an authorised representative and three minutes and 45 seconds of time by the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment in the same text, a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group and joint MPs Nenad Popovic and Donka Banovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Popovic, and a National MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34971	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, the proposed amendment proposes that Article 2 be deleted because we believe it is necessary to maintain the same level of deficits and debt repayment funds, as defined by the budget rebalance of April this year. The 70 billion dinar deficit was enough to cover all the shortages. If it wasn't enough, then how can we believe that even the other day the adopted deficit of 1.1 billion euros is not too small for, on the one hand, the government's ability to spend, and on the other, the inability to collect income? In addition, Article 2 of the Law defines that the implementation of the 2009 budget is not possible to increase the deficit on any basis. That's what it says in Section 2 of this article. When we talk about this rebalancing proposal, we need to point out another remark, which is that the rebalancing had to be delivered to the National Assembly already in September. And again, in September, it was still clear that the proceeds would be as planned, because we're making here... Because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because of the MPs, because of everyone, the budget is not an execution and we should not view the budget as execution, the result of the execution is the budget. That's all this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34972	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34973	No deal with Mr Popovic, but he just gave me the cream for the intended first sentence. The budget is the plan, and we should be watching him like that. This time we've been delivered as confirmation of the expendable. It is another of the innovations that we have had under this power to experience, which is that, in addition to all the changes, even the change in the meaning of words has been made. To the extent that it can no longer change the fact and data itself, and everything else is in the service of self-preservation, which thinks that in its power and because of it there are all instruments of economic policy, citizens, budget, constitution, laws and everything else, we have one law in which we literally have changed the meaning of the very words, which are called "incomes, expenditures and their control". What I intend to particularly insist on is that the two documents that were delivered, which had to be the basis for making the rebalancing when they had time and for making the 2010 budget, which we adopted in an unusual way, supposedly respecting the budget calendar, and before this budget rebalance, tells us that the documents that you delivered here and you were legally required or not to read or someone else was working on behalf of you, or that's now the highlight of everything that exists in this country, that you don't mind the documents you've brought. I'm talking about the 2008 final account and I'm talking about the report on the work of the budgetary inspection that we got from the government and I'm talking about the third document that fits into these two, which is a letter of intent written by the IMF. A concrete question -- what do we promise the IMF that we will change in the Budgetary System Act? It's announced in the dynamics of some of the jobs that are expecting us. What is it, Mrs. Finance Minister Dragutinovic, that you intend to change if in this shortage of funds in which you left the costs at the same level and failed to collect the proceeds? By adopting the Budgetary System Act, you have avoided being controlled by budget users for whom we do not allow you to call them directly or indirectly and to say that the Law on Public Agencys allows them to be out of budgetary control and that they are, for example, the same. users, budget inspection controls. Contrary to common sense and logic and law, when it suits you, one and the same user, one who is not a user, one who is a legal person, some company, some agency, and in this country it is possible that whoever uses the resources of the state is registered as a DOO society, so that he is independent, that he uses state resources and something of them is incometing, and that he does not account for it to anyone. What is contentious is that you continue to practice non-resistance under the control of those who spend the most significant state resources, natural, sky, natural wealth and money that is earned from it. In this 2008 budget inspection report, which had to serve you as the basis, if not for making the first budget for 2009, at least for the first rebalancing, if not for the first, then for the second, we have a repeat of one and the same, to say, abuse of powers and the funds that you control. Is it quite a coincidence that all the schools that you've controlled here issue their own space in lease, income from this lease, without the consent of the Property Directorate, sometimes show, sometimes do not show, that they all do public procurement mainly under the Public Procurement Act and that we all know what the costs are for this country? At the moment we adopted the Budgetary System Act, you did not agree to an amendment submitted by the SNS that all of them, including agencies and other companies, undertake to make their purchases in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. Therefore, in this report, we have a case where you have a user who controls you, a user, you say budget funds, where there are no irregularities and illegalities that have been carried out, under number one, you find the Flight Control Agency, under two Bosko Buha primary schools, and under three -- the Privatisation Agency. I just like to know how citizens feel, and I guess if they're under number 1 and 3 of the Agency for Flight Control and Privatisation listed as two positive examples of the use of budget funds or state, the Privatisation Agency. Now tell me, there was a law like that, so the basic purpose of good government is to change bad laws, to abuse funds that meant spilling out funds for strange, past laws and past the public elected consultants for legal and financial services choose themselves, to settle all costs, and then only the change that remains in the budget. You praise them, there was no abuse of funds, and control was found to have been doing the right thing. Do you live in this country? A month ago, you had a case of conflict of interest, where three directors from the Privatisation Agency founded their private company with a privatisation consulting assignment and at addresses and working hours while working for the Privatisation Agency, so when they were arrested on that Sunday, in the sense that the Agency for Business Registers provided information that these are indisputable people who are the current directors of parts of the Privatisation Agency, they said they didn't know they were in conflict of interest, they don't know what the law says about it. Well, no, they didn't advise anyone, no, they'll turn it off. So, all the emptyness of words to which you refer to the terms “supervision of spending of funds”, “public insight of spending of funds” is seen in these and these examples. I don't speak to you personally as it represents or, God forbid, a paradigm for that, no, that's the way this government exercises its powers. So, as they talk about surveillance and public insight, we have the Civil Aviation Directorate, which I told you was a completely illegally translated name from the former SRJ and SCG to the Civil Aviation Directorate of Serbia, that he even called in one decision on the prices of services he charges that are under the Ministry Act, and this law treats the Ministry of Diaspora. This is where I gave those details. That's offensive. The Civil Aviation Directorate and this agency have billions of euros for flyovers and you claim that others do. It's no defense. You're referring to some international agreement that doesn't exist, some from 60 and some years ago. It is said that these companies, conditioned to call them such, have salaries set by international criteria, so you can't cut their wages when you've made decisions for everyone else. Why don't you tell me how many employees have been raised in that agency and who has been employed here and at the Directorate. Is this treated by some international institution that the state has to go voluntarily through its body? It is not true that such an organization of celestial control and flying over the earth has been carried out everywhere in the world. So, someone who has the most resources, I'm talking about these two organizations, the Directorate and the Agency, and the Privatisation Agency, you're putting them here in this budget inspection report as someone who's been spending their resources neatly. If it wasn't for the document we officially received, I'd expect somewhere to see a transparent hidden camera. It really looks amazing. That is why the precisely listed schools that rent their space, the physical halls, mostly, which do not know how to book exactly the right advances for the reconstruction of roofs and schools, and which, for example, as the Trade Court in Novi Sad, have exceeded their budgets for 48,000 dinars. I repeat, you're putting on the list that some 48,000 dinars have exceeded funds, and that's the amount of one fee for a commission, many of which are non-existent to you and serve to stimulate the loyalty of your co-workers in the government. I'll talk about it especially because I have a report of what's called professional and special services. So, some users, some institutions simply point out as if they were illegally spent, literally just to have their reputation destroyed in public as much as possible. The assembly is no exception, I'll talk about it when the amendment comes to the agenda, but that's why some who have billions, hundreds of millions of euros and billions of dinars, and you don't put them in the order of those who need to make bills, or control them, or put them in the budget register to which you should have them. As it's called, I really couldn't say, but I have to admit that the delivery of these and these reports is simply some instrument of dizziness in which you provide us even the information that health homes are giving out to someone in the lease of space. Is it possible in this country that someone is realizing that it was done without the consent of the Property Directorate? How is that possible? I can't go hand over the book until I pay for the participation, even though I'm paying for whatever it takes. I can't get in line in front of someone until I get a number on any counter. Who does this country exist for? For those who regulate the rules can laws be broken like this? Are these laws that don't apply to you, but to the rest of the people? From this report, the conclusion of this guy is simply unequivocal. What is your failure I'm not going to say, one controlled ministry has the longest list of abuses of funds, not just their own, but organizations over which it's the power to regulate some relationships and rules of conduct. The youth and sports ministry has mentioned about a dozen abuses in budgetary inspection, which are not really appropriate, not to the ministry, but to one government that presupposes it to pass laws and prescribes rules of respect. Or the laws that you bring to us here are just a different packaged force of one who exercises power and who thinks power is immeasurable. With that force combined with a kind of surface, I won't say intricacies, because proof of the profession is the diplomas you have. But proof of superficiality is a tax income plan for citizens and projected data from corporate income tax. Repeat, when a rebalancing was made in April, you gave an incredibly high figure of both taxes, as if you had not already submitted tax returns and company accounts, so you could easily see what it was and were handed over tax returns to citizens, so you could know what the income tax would be. Software, which is spent a lot of money, should have allowed you to have orderly information about it, but whether these software actually serves to be found on those secret lists, the invisible public, taxpayers who owe over a billion dinars, and that you can't even find out the founder, for example, one of those companies that are largely in debt to the IRS. I don't want to talk about any of this specifically, I'm giving you a chance to collect that tax, so you can let us know about it. All the innovations that exist in the Tax Administration, where big users, even participants in privatisations that dictate the amount of tax on the transfer of absolute rights, introduce innovation of the type of introduction of the wrong PIB when in charge of the tax obligation not to block that and such a company. Do citizens know what kind of relationship this country has and how true it is when I say that this country loves rich people, because it depends on them, but not on taxes, but on the entirely defined uninstituted interests that some of the authorities of some who are called big and powerful, who are not big and powerful because they are smart, but because they don't pay taxes, rent their political friendships and because they have exclusive information that doesn't talk about their expertise and guidance, but about the possibility of getting funds from that state register that they don't deserve in any way? Evidence of this, in the control of the 2008 final account, on page 82, through professional services, we have the case that the Minister of Economy and Regional Development signed a contract with the ECPI Institute for Economic and Social Research, worth 10 million, a two-year contract. He commissioned labour market developments, which will be realised within two years and after paying the first war of five million net plus taxes, VAT, 5,900, the DRI found that the competition was not justified because no service report was provided to the ministry. Since it was an interesting piece of information, a trail of modern-day means of modern civilization, when a man enters that "ESPI" gets that in fact it is the Institute for Economic and Social Research of the Institute of G17. The same address in the bracket says it's just another name. Regardless of the data protection that you can't see the PIB and the home number, when you look a little further, you get the information that in one of the projects, which was run by one network for improving business and business environment, that Mrs. Mirosnka Dinkic is the director of the Department of Human Resources and Social Policy at the Institute for Economic and Social Research from Belgrade, now in this project Deputy Chairman of the Management Board and you wonder – does your eyes see what is written in the papers on the site and in the 2008 final account report, his control? That the Minister of Economy and Regional Development paid his own institute, which existed before the party, to his mother, 10 million. He signed the contract at 10 million, and in 2008 he paid five. What happened in 2009, I guess we'll see. Here there is the National Employment Service, also under the control of the G17, when there are mechanisms for these research work with the Development Fund, which, by the way, is, in this control, characterized as someone who, in working time and the resources of people who are financed from the budget, has privately charged over two million and something for similar projects that are in his job description for which he receives money from the budget. Instead of the one we finance from the budget working for the government of these and these projects, it goes out to the market, so for its working hours, it charges plus some exclusive fees for the projects of its employees, and the ministries, it's proven, who knows what's going on with the others, I can assume we have a direct conflict of interest, abuse of funds, and when someone's worried about how we're going to get a job, how we're going to survive, how it's going to be years and so forth. How much of the funds at 423 are paid to and to whom and whether there are at all services that justify it, the citizens will hear, because according to the old man that all secrets must be found out one day, the citizens will find out. It's amazing that you, who had to be a precondition for rebalancing, for forming a new budget, come out with the conclusion that you can't cut costs at a time when this and this ministry, for example, says that a huge amount of funds had to be directed into consulting services, because, my God, tourism is this pregnant branch where it should be explored how it will develop as a branch of non-replaceable services. In addition, in these scarce budgets, you have the notion that part of the funding was planned for the establishment and financing of public enterprises and companies for the development of tourism. A huge amount of money is given to subsidies, regulations, and that is what that reform of regulations and cuttings would not have to predeterminate, but to ban the regulation from sharing so much, huge money and the signature of one man, the minister, where supposed to regulate other people's criteria. And you're dating us with a requirement to vote on a budget rebalance in which we have a huge deficit, which is called pre-expension of the future, however you reduce it by euphemisms, whatever statistical manipulations you've served to reduce the amount of debt that went into consumption, most of it, and that from 2003 to today, and that you've been following it by the nature of the work you've been doing, we have unsustainable budget financing due to such a structure, not only the economic structure, but the lack of an industrial base that will bring about the sale of exchangeable goods that will be able to charge in foreign exchanges and what was temporary spending, the inflow of privatisation, you knew it couldn't last. On such grounds, instead of saying we're changing, it's not popular, but we need to change our approach, no, you're just asking us to give you more time, another mandate until we all become weapons for the sake of 5% of the population in this country. That's really unacceptable, and I think it's kind of the passion of the one who's at the top of the government, and from that peak starts moving down, coming out to the public and the Assembly with this kind of rebalancing, and all with the belief that citizens don't really hear what they're saying, that they don't really understand, and that the ratings of this Parliament are low. I hope, however, that the arguments that we make come to citizens, as arguments on the basis of which they will assess not in some late elections, when everything is under the trap of debt, but just a little earlier, while still strong and economically prosperous Serbia can be made of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34974	The time of the parliamentary group president has been used and six minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the post: I spoke by amendment. ) 15 minutes have been used for the deputy president of the parliamentary group, two minutes for the amendment, 17 minutes to 23 minutes, and 55 seconds is six minutes and 55 seconds from the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34975	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, Madam Minister, I apologize in advance to colleagues who are somewhat more professional and professional for this area, and I apologize to the professional public of the RS, but I will try to try my presentation on the amendment to Article 2 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the 2009 budget to bring down to the level of the largest number of citizens who are doing what the RS Government is doing a lot of pain and who will be able to understand only this way. Public revenues are all that one state in the RS budget manages to collect on various grounds, taxes, contributions and everything else that is a commitment to Serbian citizens. Public expenditures are spent in various ways, also providing certain services to Serbian citizens, so that they do not turn out to have nothing in return for the money they give. They do, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and how wasteful they are to their resources. To raise funds for coverage, as they like to say, a budget gap or budget rebalancing, there are five ways. One way is taking credit, borrowing the state. The amendment that I have filed on behalf of the SRS for the most part and it treats this issue. The other way is a donation. We do not see from this proposal of Article 2 at all that it is some donations, but we will continue to explore and one day prove that it was not donations, but also the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, or the citizens of Serbia. The third way is to broadcast state records of value. It is one of the ways that is quite represented in covering surpluses, i.e. the lack of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Non-expended assets on individual appraisals are required to be transferred to other appraisals if something is not spent in 2009 so that it can be transferred to another apopration, or perhaps to another ministry. It simply does not exist, because no ministry, no beneficiary of the budget, has saved in relation to what was planned to spend. They have the funds of privatisation, they are not in the proposal of Article 2. The Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget. In 2010, the draft budget said -- if there is privatisation funds, they will then be evenly distributed to budget users. This suggests that we have already spent our privatisation funds, that our export capacity has become very low and that's where certain problems have arisen. Pensions frozen, salaries in the public sector frozen, small redundancies for what are called social programmes, help to the population, but the funds are missing and we are now talking about the need for borrowing. Madam Minister, you know that we are in the SRS to a good extent practical. I'll give you a suggestion. I think you should seriously think about him. Please propose to the National Assembly of Amendments and Supplements, i.e. a brand new law on the budgetary system. Listen to my suggestion, I think there's room to put it in that proposal, where you're going to define the budget calendar quite differently from what it's been so far. Our proposal is to provide for the adoption of budgets for the current year or for 2010 at the end of 2010. Then you'll have a slip. What you've spent so much you'll be dividing by appraisals and then we won't have the need for frequent rebalancing, but you'll see it'll be effective. We knew when we submitted our amendments to Article 2 that none of these amendments would be accepted. Not because they're not good and good, not because they don't take care enough and responsiblely of our citizens that we represent here, but because we predict that borrowing is reduced and the funds are already spent. That's why you say - I can't accept the amendment. We knew it would be so, but we wanted to tell you this story so that at least in the next period we wouldn't make this one unserious thing out of it. We expected from you as someone in charge of taking care of every dinar collected in the state register, that those who were at the end of 2008, and even in the first quarter of 2009, said that the crisis was our chance to develop... So, the whole world in the event of an economic crisis will also have problems and that the full budget, and that it works and that it encourages its economy, was the only chance for development in the state of Serbia. We knew back then that these were very unserious statements, not optimistic, but absolutely unserious. You know exactly who said that. Remember the way the government of the Republic of Serbia intervened in late January 2009, reportedly that the economic crisis has been tempered, so the liquidity loan is an approved economy of 4 billion. The loan for investment was granted about 5 billion, a loan to help with the billing of interest, to spend our domestic products, was granted approximately one billion. A total of 10 billion, and we now, or the government, are proposing to increase the loan from 53 billion to 87, an increase of 34 billion to cover the budget gaps, or deficits. It is proposed to borrow only on the basis of a 34 billion loan. We suggested that this amount be reduced by 5 billion, because we are deeply aware that you have already spent money, but we wanted to prove to you that at least in this period that is left you try to save something. But you didn't care about it at all. There's one thing you need to be resented. Most colleagues don't even dispute your expertise. I can't think of anything to do with that, either, but in one of the debates here in parliament, it seems to me, you've tried to minimize the role of the State Auditing Institution, an entirely independent state body. Now let me explain to you how you talked about their control here. You said they worked for the first time, they never worked in any other state outside our country. If they had worked, whenever, anywhere, then they'd have more rights and with more responsibility and more expertise they'd be working here. I must remind you that you are now the first to be elected Minister of Finance, which does not mean that you cannot be responsible for this function and role, but it seems to me that you do not have enough, not professional, but one other capacity to oppose those who do not care about the funds they receive. It seems to me that you are content with the total amount of funds provided for by the state administration to spend, and then by your positions, you say that certain ministries will have that amount and whatever distribution they make within their ministry, you do not interfere with that part. We should, because you're still a security guard of the state register, and that's one of the ways and the reason you'd have to take care of it. When it comes to credit, I have to remind you that once a businessman takes credit from one business bank, when it turns out that the balances aren't very good, that he can't get that amount, the banker answered it this way, of course, this is one story that has another sound, but you can as finance minister and how to use it, if you're not up until now, at least in the next period. When the banker told him that his balances weren't very good, he did a positive job, but there's not enough guarantee he'd be able to repay the loan within the scheduled time limit, he told him - I own two eyes, one is artificial. If you guess which one's artificial, you'll get a loan. This one said, it's artificially your left. He says-- you got the loan. On what basis did you conclude that it was artificial, or that the prosthesis was left eye? He says it's-- it's looking at me warmer. So the other thing about bankers, I refer you to the IMF, no matter what they talk about here, no matter how they behave, their eye is icy and they under extremely difficult and difficult conditions approve of us loans. Try to get holes in the budget, to rebalance the budget as little as possible with those who give us on the strictest terms of the funds. We don't expect them to give us anything. Try to provide more work for the citizens of Serbia, so that the overall economic activity is second level, so that we have less need to borrow, and therefore the generations that come after us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34976	Seven minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34977	Ladies and gentlemen, we in the SRS believe that this planned budget deficit is unwarrantedly too high and therefore we have proposed to reduce it from 87,765,000 to 67,765,000. We are against this deficit because we believe that on the one hand the Republic does not finance certain projects, does not finance the resolution of certain core and life problems of Serbian citizens, who often require very small funds from several million dinars, and on the other hand the government is funding projects that cost hundreds of millions of dinars, of which Serbian citizens do not benefit much and also hundreds of millions of dinars, even billions of dinars of funds are being spent unintendedly. I will take this opportunity to list several projects from the Municipality of the Great Plan, which, in my opinion and the opinion of the SRS, were to be found among the budget expenditures, and the government has not singled out any dinars for them in the last few years. When you start from Belgrade in the direction of Nis on the highway, then turn on Mali Pogorec's loop, in the direction of Mladenvec, you continue to travel in a quality way that meets, I suppose, even European standards. The worse way is from Mladenvec to Smederevska Palanka, not in the best edition, but it is inlerable, so to speak, condition. However, when you cross the Smederjevska Palanka and head towards the Great Plane, as if entering small Asia, 14 miles between these two cities are in such a state that it is simply impossible for drivers to break this new traffic law regarding the speed of driving. Simply, only someone who's a trachea can drive his car from Smederevska Palanka to the Great Plane at a speed of 40-50 kilometers an hour. We have repeatedly asked the Republic for funds, we have repeatedly received notifications that the planned separation, I don't know, amounting to 20 million dinars, but we haven't received a single dinar from those funds yet. Another project, which we believe deserves attention and that it should be found among the budget expenditures, is improving healthcare in the area of the Municipality of the Great Plan. Ten days ago, I was here saying that because of the lack of doctors, doctors in the House of Health "Pane Djordjevic" in the Great Plan are often forced to perform daily 50-60 examinations of patients, which, in any case, reduces the quality of the examination, on the one hand, represents an extremely large abuse for people who sometimes wait all day long, and sometimes even that day they don't arrive for a doctor's examination. A minimum number of doctors who need a home of health, a minimum, in order to meet these criteria, are required to receive four doctors at a health home in the Great Plan. Second thing, I was talking about a health station in Lozovic. Lozovik is the largest village in Serbia and has 6.5 thousand inhabitants, health care is performed by three doctors, so two doctors in the first shift and one doctor in the second shift, which is small. What's particularly interesting is that the population of 7,000 people doesn't have a single pediatrician. It's the same case with the Milosevic settlement. What's interesting for Milosevic is that it has the largest collective center for carefree and abandoned children. Next thing you know, appliances in a health lab are mostly unusable. I'm just going to say it's a very small number. Let's say, for hiring, hiring four doctors in a home of health at an annual level, it would be enough to single out four million dinars from the budget. To hire a pediatrician to work at a health station in Lozovic and Milosevic, there would be enough one million dinars, and four million dinars would be needed for the equipment of a laboratory in the Great Plan. The next thing I know, where the state, in my opinion, has made an appointment when it comes to expenses, is the damage that has been paid to farmers from the Great Plan for compensation for the damage they suffered due to the city that hit the area this summer. The republic sent inspectors who estimated the damage amounting to 24m dinars, however, allocated six times less funds to cover the damage, up from about three million dinars. The next thing I think is very important and not to honor the Republic, is the fact that the roof of the National University of the Great Plan, a significant institution of culture, is sneezing. The National University soon hosts significant events, and among them "Massuk's Days", a event that is known at the level of the Republic and beyond, and there is indeed a danger that actors and guests of this event, in case it rains, must bring umbrellas if they do not get wet. The next and last thing I'm going to point out is building a traffic loop on the highway at Lozovic. This loop is necessary for the reason that 17,5 000 people from Krnjev, Lozovic and Milosevic are forced to travel unwarrantedly long to the fire loop, to get on the highway or to get off the highway. For these reasons, we believe that these projects and similar projects in other municipalities in Serbia deserve attention, that the government did not have enough hearing to fund them, we cannot support the budget deficit envisaged.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34978	Four minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34979	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in article 2, I have submitted an amendment to replace the amount of "250,691,442,800" with "233,765,791,800". The amendment proposes a reduction in budget resources related to the budget deficit and expenditure on obtaining financial assets and expenditure based on the principal debt, and thus a reduction in budget debt. It is widely known that the 74 billion deficit in 2009, i.e. 105 billion in 2010, and that they are too big for the Republic of Serbia. They are probably acceptable to some other countries that are far more developed than our country, which can, with their developmental economy, industry and other branches, easily cover these deficits. For us, this amount of deficits was too large, it had to be significantly lower, as well as the debt of the budget itself. A lot more attention had to be taken to spending money. The savings measures had to be much more present to make the deficits as small as possible. It is in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the more rational use of budget funds, both locally and at the republican level, is because when money is not enough, it must be used in the best possible way. He must invest first and foremost in the top priority for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You can't waste money when there's a lot of it, you should always save it, and when there's little, as is the case with us, you should take special care of it. Our country is destroying, among other things, a large number of ministries, and thus a large number of ministers, their deputies, as well as a large number of special advisers, who have as many as 59. The protracted government spends too much money on various cocktails, presentations, receptions and the like. The contract services are only one of the items that satisfys party colleagues, relatives, friends, godfathers who allow certain financial incomes and thus spend excessively on budget funds. As a result, among other things, the SRS has submitted this amendment to reduce costs, reduce deficits, reduce spending on the purchase of financial assets and expenditures based on the principal debt, thereby reducing budget debt.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34980	30 seconds of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34981	Happiness, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which is New Year's Eve, otherwise we could probably expect a third budget rebalance for 2009. We played ministers, so we spent a lot more than they were going to do and they could spend it, and now we have to go to rebalancing, to cover these costs, which are often bordered and with, to say the least, affairs. What happened? Payment of peace, no cover and no limit, within the coalition, coalition settlement of appetite, payment of support to individual legal projects. After all, recently, an affair broke out about various legalisations, not to mention shopping, pastry equipment, etc., in order not to vote in favour of the 2010 budget. The state bag is empty, the appetites have grown and, of course, it has to go into budget rebalance. You have proposed in article 2, the amount of 53, or 54 billion to increase to 87, nearly 88 billion, and you will be covered by a loan to cover the budget deficit. You suggested that 218 billion 420 million rise to 250 billion 691 million, that's 32 billion 270 million, and that will cover the broadcasting of state records of value. We're going to print records of value, I'm afraid if we continue this way that these state records of value, which are otherwise highly appreciated in the world in this banking traffic, will quickly become worthless charters and will have a value of approximately 1,000 euros of Dinkic's actions. In article 2, you say, you're asking that from 147 billion, 148 billion to 145 billion. When you look at what it is, it's a debt payment. So for those two billion and 100 million you paid less off the debt that the state made in the previous period, again in your period, in the time of your reign, but in the previous period. So what we're looking for as a reduction is just to cover that the state couldn't afford another two billion and 100 million dollars to pay. On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment asking that the amount of 250 billion, which will be covered by the broadcasting of government securities of value, be reduced to 227 billion, or the difference will be 29 billion. Of course, the amendment has not been accepted, because it is likely that it will not be possible to cover everything that has been spent so far. The host in the village, the host in the house, takes care of every dinar. The credit is a bad ally, and we know it very well, both you and me, and as a family, and as a state, it has to be taken care of. I'm afraid, Madam Minister, that if you continue like this, and we see through the 2010 budget, that it continues at that same pace, I'm afraid we'll soon pass as Argentina did, therefore, Argentine syndrome, that the state will go bankrupt. I'm afraid you don't sell out and say the next day -- here you go, we couldn't anymore. So, in addition to these securities of value, credit, you and privatisation revenues cover the parts of the deficits in this budget rebalance. You sold everything. There's still electricity left. There are a few other companies still being held as social ones. When you sell it, what do we do next? Then how are you going to cover these budget deficits? That's why I think we should adopt the amendment, so we should pull the belt a little bit, and you can see how you're going to cover with the papers what was already spent in 2009 and that in 2010, it's much more domestic business than you've ever done before.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34982	Used three minutes of Parliament time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34983	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS has submitted an amendment to Article 3 because it believes that Article 3 should be deleted. We believe that payment of debts should be made in the manner agreed before, that is, that it remains unchanged. First of all, this refers to the payment of debts to domestic lenders, because thanks to this incompetent, irresponsible and arrogant policy of the Serbian government regarding the borrowing and emissions of government records, we have a situation that commercial banks, above all, can pay very little money to domestic lenders, i.e. domestic economies. In times of crisis, the biggest problem in the economy is, of course, liquidity. It is therefore very important to allow businesses to obtain a favourable loan from commercial banks, so that the economy can survive and be a momentum for a serious country. Obviously, the Serbian government does not have this opinion. What is the fact is that the Serbian government is acting as the biggest competitor, in fact, in front of commercial banks. We therefore believe that this amendment should be accepted, although we are aware of one fact, that this is actually a written amendment in vain, because you spent that money, and there is no great hope that the amendment will change anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34984	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabaković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34985	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with my amendment, I asked the Government of the Republic of Serbia to make small savings in the Republic of Serbia's budget, not so big. The previous amendment of MP Jorvanka Tabakovic is to say in a slightly strange way accepted, and according to the amendment, MPs saved about 50 million dinars in 2009. Neither did the speaker of the assembly nor the secretary of the assembly save it, but the MPs of the Parliament saved it. Madam Minister, I'd like to ask you-- where did the government save some money on something? It cannot save, Madam Minister, because your colleagues and colleagues and the Kalenic market go with rotations and escorts and block traffic. How to save. We're talking here about how they're reducing the expenditure team, etc., and here the haughtiness all over the place, so some of them have turned their heads that their lives are so threatened, that when they're traveling somewhere, four or five cars have to follow them. The question is, why does every vice president of the government have to have his own cabinet? Because of the four vice-presidents of the government, three have their cabinets of ministers. It's very interesting how it can work that way. With my amendment, I asked them not to have any more Deputy Prime Ministers, each for themselves, their own cabinet, because they can't have the right to two jobs, even if they thought they were capable, one job will suffer, that's for sure. They don't have to have two cabinets, they don't have to have two secretaries, they don't have to have two sets of cars to track them, especially since some ministers have the exact same portfolio both in the ministry and as vice-president of the government. For example, we also have the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration, we have the Ministry of European Integration, we have the Office for European Integration. It's all a multiplication of the state administration, whether you want to admit it or not. In some normal circumstances, this may be acceptable, but not during the global economic crisis. Madam Minister, I would like you to convince us of the following fact that these funds that you have provided for in the budget rebalance and which are new debts, that they have not already been spent and that the state has not already committed itself to business banks. It's almost impossible that it isn't, since the law won't go into effect quickly enough, so you can spend it. I'm going to ask another question -- what's going to happen, it's highly unlikely, if the Assembly doesn't adopt this rebalancing, and someone already spent the money, will someone go to jail? I'd like to see something like that, because ever since you came to power, no minister of abuse has responded, and abuses have been constantly spinning by means of public information. Here, now the DRI also says that the ministers were purposelessly spending funds and they would be given criminal charges, and at the time when you came to power and when some of the other ministers were, for a much lighter form, to say, abuses, they were written criminal charges. Madam Minister, I would like you to respond to me as a representative of the Government – do you have a plan and programme to protect your business from business banks, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia, is a competitor of the economy, when it comes to loans from business banks, so that the loans have been raised by 30% and 40%? Don't be surprised anymore why we don't have an expected GDP growth, why the profit shown to us by companies is getting smaller, why the number of employees keeps falling. You have to accept that it's better to create healthy conditions and sound competition with banks, to create new jobs, to have newly created values, and in this way to fill the gaps in the budget, than to constantly apply for new loans and ruin this little economy that we have left and to owe citizens every day, ever since this government exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34986	Three minutes and 30 seconds have been used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Zoran Antic has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34987	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the fact is that in this year we have a situation where those who are the poorest, with lower education, workers in production, have suffered the burden of this crisis, that the largest number of jobs lost, above all, in the manufacturing industry, when it comes to production workers, that employment in some way is replaced by an increase in the number of employees in the administration, that we have a very bad situation in the private sector, a significant loss of jobs, especially when it comes to entrepreneurship, by some estimate, we will see it in January. As early as this year, close to 150,000 jobs have been lost, employed by entrepreneurs, who themselves are entrepreneurs. All this suggests that the private economy, what needs to be some moto development, what the full budget has been going through very badly over the past year, compared to the government's economic policy. It was quite understandable that both the state administration and the government were taking the burden of this crisis, the burden of these hardships took over partly on themselves. The SNS has submitted a series of amendments that essentially have at the moment only a desire to stress that this government continues to behave wastefully. Unfortunately, you have not changed your relationship in the 2010 budget in terms of reorganising and reducing the government's costs, reducing the number of ministries, reducing the number of vice-presidential posts. With this amendment that I have submitted, which applies to one of the vice-presidential places and to the savings of some 40 million dinars, I believe it is not small, I believe that in that way at least we could in some way, and the government gentlemen, point out and show solidarity with the economy and the private sector. Unfortunately, you have no political will, but I'm sure no matter how we cut this budget for 2010, because here we're talking about rebalancing, in fact, about what's already been done, there's something not possible here, no matter how we cut the 2010 budget, we didn't want to, given the state of economy, given the care we've had for many years by this ruling structure when it comes to economics, we're going to have to rebalance very quickly. I hope that these amendments and this attitude of the SNS will at least encourage the public to put more serious pressure on the government to go into reducing public spending and that this wastefulness, which is characterized by this government, will finally bring them to their senses.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34988	One minute used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Zoran Babic has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Igor Becic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34989	I have submitted an amendment where I have suggested that Article 3 be changed and read: “Article 5. Section 3, Chapter 3.5. of function 110 is deleted’. It is unacceptable that under the conditions of the economic crisis, we increase public spending and threaten the state administration. When the socio-economic situation in the Republic of Serbia is catastrophic, when pensions and salaries are frozen, we see, in 2010, when more than 70,000 companies with an account are in a blockade, the republican budget instead of creating a perspective for overcoming and reviving the economy and overcoming the economic crisis, the government increases the budget spending it finances from expensive credit debts. Also, there may be over 50 state agencies, funds and directories. Public spending is currently over 45% of GDP. Serbia is one of the European countries for the highest state spending. The measures to increase budget revenues include an increase in VAT unless public spending is reduced. We see insufficient responsibility for fiscal policy over the last eight years.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34990	Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP Jelena Budimirovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34991	Dear Presidency, Honored citizens of Serbia, my amendment refers to the removal of function 110 in Article 5. Section 3, Chapter 3.7 refers to the allocation of budget funds for the Office for Media Cooperation. I believe that the amount allocated to the functioning of the Office for Media Cooperation is unnecessary expenditure in the budget. As a special government service, the Office for Media Cooperation was established by a government regulation. By 2005 operations from the office's jurisdiction were carried out under the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In this way and labour costs from the jurisdiction of that office were lower. We from the SNS are explicitly against unnecessary costs in the budget, especially considering that any difficulties, i.e. the lack of funds to carry out the tasks of the Office for Media Cooperation, can be overcome by including the General Secretariat of the Government in the affairs and the same, using its budgetary resources and professional services. This would reduce the costs of the state administration and the number of civil servants. As I have already repeated several times, under the conditions of the economic crisis there is no need to increase public spending and multiply the state administration. On the contrary, I think we should seriously consider spending every dinar in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I would now take the opportunity only to remind Mrs. Minister of an interview given by the "Economist" magazine on July 24, 2008 and to say that there are no small savings, each is important and large. Now it remains for you to implement your words in action and accept this amendment aimed at reducing the costs of the state administration, i.e. saving in the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34992	Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP Stefan Zankov has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Stefan Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34993	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS also said in the 2010 budget debate that it is unacceptable in terms of the economic crisis to increase public spending and the state administration. In particular, this amendment is about double costs, so to speak, of European integration. For the sake of the public, and without your abuse, I would like to reiterate that the SNS has made it clear more than once and has been defined as absolutely for Serbia in the EU, but we also believe that this objective that has support, we think, of a large number of citizens, does not need someone to abuse to hire anyone who knows how many of their party personnel. This is exactly what is happening because we have the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration, so we have the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister working on co-ordination of the ministries on issues of European integration, and the Office for European Integration is also doing the jobs in its work cycle, as it says, for the needs of the Government related to co-ordination of the work of ministries, organisations and services of the Government etc. This cabinet of vice presidents and offices costs tens of millions of dinars. In addition, you have the foreign ministry that has, according to your data, the largest number of people who should be out of work in this planned rationalization, as you call it. You must once, from the government, understand that when you spend your budget not to spend your money but to spend the money of Serbian citizens, practically someone else's money, it's yours only to use it the most rational way, at least that's how it should be done. It is clear to us that it is the Ministry of Finance's obligation to plan for the future to work and these offices, as is the case with agencies, directorates over 100. It is also clear that this amendment cannot bring back time, as you said in your explanation, since it is a rebalancing process at the very end of this year and the funds have been spent, but the message of this discussion that the government and the ruling party, in this case DS, have to stop once. The information that instead of 32 employees of the European Integration Office working in the future 50 people will contribute to what I'm talking about, and now, on the one hand, you need to fire employees in the state administration to make a significant increase in the number of employees elsewhere, as in this case. We don't think that's a good way to do it, and we don't think it's right for some people to get fired and others to hire, especially if you're going through local self-government in Bora, let's just say, where there's been a strike by a lot of people who have lost their jobs in this way. In the end, and I end it, you have even managed to bring about such moves or simply by some inaction that people are disgusted by democracy itself and that support for the EU is less. If it wasn't for you, citizens' support for the EU, we think it would be bigger. That's why we're accusing you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34994	One minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34995	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of MP Mica Rogovic brings together all amendments submitted by SNS MPs on the amendment and addition of the 2009 Budget Law. We knew that no amendment would be accepted because the funds had already been spent. Only the revenue side was to be provided, and the revenue party should be provided with loans, i.e. by increasing deficits. I am therefore surprised by the little explanation I received from the Government on this amendment, which says: “If the amendment was accepted, there would be an increase in the deficits proposed by this law. ” I would like someone to explain to me that this has been increased by the deficit of SNS MPs, when the funds that are increasing divisions for Serbia's Army have been provided precisely from public spending and from a large number of agencies, administrations and offices. We know you spent those funds, which is probably why you're writing that argument. How do you spend your resources? I'm just saying that we have the Environmental Protection Agency, so we have the Environmental Protection Fund, so we have the Ministry of Environmental Protection. So much about how the Government of the Republic of Serbia is saving, and when it comes to the military, I would like Mr. Sutanovac to be more honest with the citizens, he can't fool us and say why, for example, they don't have tires or why when he was here airing in front of our Parliament, when the class of pitomatists was produced, that even one plane couldn't land with the wheels down, but landed without wheels. So much about what kind of defence minister we have and so much about what kind of government we have, that won't give up any of our dinars, none of our savings, none of our privileges, and all that, anyway, that the fact that we're paid to pay out of real income, but more and more debt to the budget and citizens, and I really can't figure out what the responsibility of these ministers is, their own, and whether they're thinking about how we're going to repay these loans. That's the biggest problem. If we had an economy, if we had developed infrastructure, I would also accept borrowing or that these funds that are scheduled for new borrowing to go right into the development of the economy and infrastructure could be acceptable, but this goes exclusively to public spending and survival of this government. Whether it was public promises, in an election campaign or so, the one who promised should have thought about whether it was real or not, I believe there is. On the other hand, there is greed and some match between ministers that will prove more capable with funds that the budget has not realised with its real incomes. That's why I'd like to be answered whether these funds provided for in this rebalancing have already been spent and that all I need is by raising our hands to save a responsible government from criminal responsibility for these spent funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34996	Three minutes and 55 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34997	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, this amendment needed to increase the funding of the Veterinary Administration to increase the programme of animal health measures and to combat dangerous animal diseases. The aim of the amendment is to point to the importance of the Veterinary Administration, as well as the importance of the entire agricultural production in our country. Our EU country can compete most in the area of agriculture, i.e. agricultural production, in the production of healthy food. Last year, agriculture was Serbia's largest exporter. Industrial products are hardly able to compete on the EU market, but with food, especially healthy food, we have a good chance and we have to use it. Investment in agricultural production and the production of healthy food is insufficient for now. The government must recognise the importance of agriculture for our country and therefore invest in agriculture. The Authority should provide sufficient resources to successfully combat animal diseases and the occurrence of infectious livestock diseases, especially swine fever and other infectious diseases. We are now authorised to export thermally processed pig products, but no export of fresh meat and live cattle is allowed. If we succeed in eradicating the infectious diseases of our premises, we would be given the opportunity to export large cattle and livestock products. The conditions for production we have, we have a tradition of livestock production, we have knowledge, we have time, we just need the government to pay more attention to agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34998	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u34999	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, this amendment has the sole purpose of reminding once again our agricultural producers that the agrarian budget in 2009 is essentially greater than the agrarian budget in 2010 and all stories, and it is smaller by about a billion dinars, that this government and this government are taking care of agricultural production are falling into the water, because some facts are unobstructed. If the agrarian budget, with a rebalance made in April, was 26 billion and 690 million, the agrarian budget in the 2010 budget is 25 billion 621 million, so for some billion and 80 million is smaller or will be smaller in 2010. This may have serious consequences and consequences for our agricultural production, because if we pretend to become a candidate for EU membership by the end of the following year or early 2011, our agricultural production must be absolutely prepared for this status, especially the use of EU funds. Furthermore, our agricultural production must be in many segments of promotion in both quantitative and qualitative terms in order to be competitive on this European and world market. This relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture is simply unreal and I hope that agricultural producers, who themselves are in the process of discussing the 2010 budget through their associations, and also prominent agro-economies, are the instructions that it is necessary and necessary to increase the agricultural budget in 2010 without the government accepting it. It means that these same agricultural producers will know that in some of the upcoming elections the price of who and what promises they make during some pre-election periods, and how they treat this and such a significant economic sector as agriculture is when it comes to the position of government. I want to remind once again all of you and our public that agriculture and in this year with such incentives has achieved a growth of gross social value somewhere between 2.5% and 3%, that this and such agriculture have achieved an external trade surplus between $500 and $600 million, that total exports are somewhere over a billion and $500. Are these not enough arguments to pay much more attention to this economic sector, to approach it much more responsibly or to allocate far more resources than it has been set aside in this year, especially in the following year?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35000	One minute and 55 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The People's MP, Milet Poscurica, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP named Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35001	Ladies and gentlemen, we wanted this amendment to transfer some of the funds from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development to scientific research institutions, the very economic classification that carries the greatest weight of funding. It's called specialized services, but when you look at all the budgets, it's actually the backbone of funding for all the projects, the salaries of researchers, what they're going to do with the estimated value of the research clock, etc. We've got an explanation where we can see that it's already been spent in advance. A report on how and why it was spent on an economic classification, which also means foggy, subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, on whose spending the regulation is passed by the government. So, not for the first time or for the last time that not so big a billion and by the means, the government decides by regulations. We wanted to get it through the law, to define it as the right to be decided by a scientific research organization. Why? If we look at the paper that we have before us and which was otherwise in the public debate, and it's quite polite that it came out of that ministry, I believe, as it's supposed to be here, in front of the MPs at the debate, which is a strategy of scientific development, a vision of the future, on the page, I think it's still on that site, 53, you can see how complex a system of money supplying should be helped by scientific research organisations. So where are the other ministries, the economy ministry is the first place that should give up something and help finance. In this concept of focusing on the problem and the partnership of the strategic one, finding ourselves in a situation where we are at 0.3% of GDP, with the tendency to get close to the average 1.9%, which were in 2005 for the EU, which we are hoarse, and it should have already gone to three, that is the Lisbon deal project, let it be two, we are still 0.27 or 0.3. It's very small when you take another nigger, how much of the budget is involved. With us, 95% of the funding is spent from the budget. They envisioned in the strategy to make the change of the law more financed in the future from the economy, but it would be an obligation for economic operators who, while suffering privatisation, with all these circumstances is the question of how willing they will be to help. I'm afraid they don't have any real interest in investing in scientific research anymore, because it's easier for them to buy a patent or something else and not do that, because they're slowly giving up production in this country. All goes to a consumer mental set for which science is obviously not particularly necessary. This was the last attempt, as well as the 2010 budget debate, in which we wanted to say that, unfortunately, our country, unlike other seas, is still out of the budget to add for science to even cross Albania.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35002	50 seconds of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35003	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 which is changing and said - in Article 5, section 21 of Chapter 21 of point 1), function 560 is deleted, for the simple reason I don't think the 2009 budget was realistic and these are the consequences of that budget, so I assume that there will be consequences for this year for 2010, as well as that the rebalance will work in the following year. I know you have a legal basis for the adoption of this bill in Article 92. The Serbian Constitution and I'm thinking did this government even consider saving in 2009 and will it think in 2010? Yet these are for the Environmental Protection Agency worth about 36 million. All the ministries did that for a while. I don't know why the agencies had to have legal status. All of this could have been done in the ministry. I know you won't accept this amendment. You have reason to, because the Environmental Protection Agency has been legally established in the Ministry Act and I do not hope that we will get you to accept this amendment. I would ask you, however, despite all this, this has already been over, the government and all the organizations that are in the government of savings, because the only way is to save something so that we don't make this kind of budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35004	National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35005	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group “Forward Serbia” SNS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 which requires that Article 3 change and read - section 5, section 35, section 44, function 360, division 46 of function 510 and division 47 of function 430. The intensity of submitting my amendment is to delete all this for reasons that SNS has a responsible and rational approach to the adoption of budget law and budget rebalancing itself, because as soon as there is a rebalancing, this means that the budget is not rationally designed and not specifically designed. If, for example, you were designed that way, then there would be no need for rebalancing. We all know that we live in conditions of a major economic crisis, social misery. Personally, I also think it's not this recession and global crisis that the government would have these problems, that it would have problems with the standard of citizens and that it wouldn't have been successful. The institutions themselves, such as the Republic Institute for Information and the Internet, then the Commission for the Study of Liability for Human Rights and the Energy Efficiency Agency are special, as you say in the Government's opinion, budget users, but are also special consumers. On someone else's back, a hundred beatings. It's not enough for someone to ask you to be a minister, it can be pro-form, but it's essential that you don't rule opportunities, and that's why it's called the government to rule opportunities, to have a vision, to predict events. If he doesn't manage the opportunities, then the occasions collapse on the government and there's whiteness, there's a problem for the government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know what the citizens of Serbia would do without the Republic Information Service, the Commission to investigate the responsibility for human rights violations. They'd probably be unhappy because there are no such organs. I think the state of the country is very bad, that citizens' expectations have been failed and that your coalition when it came to power did not promise this situation to the citizens in the pre-election campaign. I'll tell you what this government reminds me of. The wormy apple doesn't wait for a storm, it's the first breeze, and this government looks like a wormy apple to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35006	A minute and 15 seconds have been used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35007	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 and this Article 3 is amended and read - in article 5, Section 36, Section 410 is deleted. This amendment of mine is directly related to the two other amendments of my colleagues, which envisions the removal of certain functions, and everything related to the fourth amendment of my colleague Otto, which provides for larger funds for the veterinary system. In essence, this amendment concerns the Foreign Investment Agency and the promotion of exports. We here, not only now, but also in the 2010 and last year's budget debate for 2009, as the Serbian Progressive Party, are calling for rationalisation and reduction of public spending and savings at this time of crisis, so these amendments that you have heard actually relate to that savings in public spending. That's the first thing. Of course, we know that these funds have been spent, but these amendments represent one appeal, if at all they reach the government, that in the future, in an appropriate way for the next financial year, a more rational approach to the creation of budgets leading to an increase in public spending. The second thing, we've channeled the funds in a specific case to give more funding for the wind. In response to this amendment, which increases the funding for the wind, the government said similar to the previous amendment to the Ministry of Defence -- if the amendment was accepted, there would be an increase in the deficit proposed by this law. We don't understand how, because exactly the means are provided for where by shutting down these functions the funds for the wind are replaced. We appeal again, and in the last plan and draft budget, we have appealed to raise funds for agriculture and veterinary purposes. For veterinary purposes, what this time also shows today is that the prevention of the spread of infectious diseases in animals is directly related to the health of the population. Investment in the prevention of infectious diseases also has a direct impact on the health of the population, so that these funds are channelled into a useful part that practically improves the health status of our stock fund, and directly and directly to the population. There's one more thing I'd like to add. We here by amendments are obviously constantly potentiating the erasure of these agencies, administrations and centers, as they are called, which are more than a hundred. I'd like to see an analysis of the effects of work once in this assembly. Let's say we get and see what the effects of this Agency's work on foreign investment and export promotion or some agency, such as environmental protection. They use budget funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35008	People's MP, the time available for MPs' groups has been used. Thank you. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35009	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, much has proved to be unrealistic, Mrs Dragutinovic, in relation to the frameworks or projection of the economic policy of the Government of Serbia in 2009, if we go from only the facts when adopting the budget for this year and the announced expenditure drop, as it was then said, which should have been accompanied by a marked drop in budget revenues based on value added tax, company tax and citizen income tax, which did not come out clearly. In doing so, we had only an increase in the total public debt of the state by withdrawing credit funds from abroad, by disrespecting the Budgetary System Act. The result of all of this is what we are talking about these days, and it seems to me that the most graphic is seen in relation to this projected budget deficit, which, with those 1.5% and 49.8 billion dinars, has reached as much as 104.8 billion. The amendment, which, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, envisioned a budget reduction related to the payment of the principal by guarantees, was merely an attempt to point out once again something that we had repeatedly criticised as a parliamentary group and pointed out over the year that was on the run. They assured us there wouldn't be any trouble returning borrowed interest money. They assured us that according to various parameters, I did not find any, in principle and we are not in charge of the country, etc., and data and facts and figures are best denied, first of all, by you as representatives of the government. If you look at just something that is official, and it is about the planned repayment of the principal and interest already since 2010, so for the period until 2015, it is clear that you will find yourself in one serious problem, because in 2010 this total foreign debt, therefore, the planned repayment of the principal and interest, is something over three and a half billion euros and, suma sumarum, in the next five years, we are expected to receive a total of 15 billion euros in return for the money. To whom we owe everything, it starts with these international financial organizations, through the Paris and London Club, other creditors, etc. And the very structure of debt suggests that obviously there's not much going on right. It is confirmed what we talked about, which is that all of the credit assets that Serbia was taking are simply not rationally used, as the theory requires and suggests and how real economic indicators in the country in which we live and find ourselves. So, we pointed out in good time that this whole substance, i.e. the concept at which economic policy was being conducted during 2009, and apparently, according to the frameworks, or outlines, expected us to be the same during the next 2010, was not in a position to face the essential problems seriously, with the determination of the measures aimed primarily at reforming the public sector, but for the whole year it marked a constant new borrowing and, therefore, it was left for the return of debt to some better times and other governments. Our main concern in all this is that there was absolutely no real standoff for such a thing, because we had in mind and the growth rate of the economy and based on it could be determined to pay off the loan, and in our terms it is really very difficult. We also stated that during 2009, and this has been demonstrated through this rebalancing and through the draft budget law for the following year, that the funds taken from abroad have been used primarily for public spending, and that you are now trying to convince us that during 2010, these funds will be targeted at infrastructure, public investment, they can hardly be acceptable. It is clear that this year the state was mostly in debt to cover the budget deficit. The particular problem is that the total public debt this year grew at a high pace, so only this year, so that, the year that is on the run, we have been in charge of just over a billion euros and the fact that we have been talking about since the following year, we will have to pay back more money than this has been the case. I say again, the amendment has tried in some way to valorise the consequences of this policy, or it is proposed that loan payments must be made by credit users, and that only one part of it is done by the Republic of Serbia from budget funds. Of course, the amendment has not been accepted because they say it is unacceptable to reject amendments this time, not in the Budgetary System Act, as it was in most cases before this, but in the Public Debt Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35010	The People's MP, Marina Ragush, submitted to the Third Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 4th amendment, in the same text, the People's MP, Milorad Buha, together MPs Zlata Đerić, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Milutin Jelic and joint MPs Nenad Popović and Donka Banović, submitted the amendment. Mrs. Zlata Djeric wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35011	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, New Serbia has submitted an amendment to Article 4 which reads - Article 4 is deleted as a whole. In fact, whenever we talk about budget rebalancing, at least in our terms, that means the policy of the final act, because we are talking about this budget rebalancing after the adoption of the 2010 budget. What prompted us to submit such an amendment to this article, otherwise, a very modest bill that in six members should justify and obtain the consent and complicity of this legislative institution for what has already been done and spent outside the law, is precisely in this Article 4, primarily the form in which it is conceived, so a few words that offend you a little bit, regardless of what they are legally legalized. It says – extremely in 2009, in case the Republic of Serbia's budgets are made less than planned, the government makes a decision, etc. Look, we're talking about current time, as if it's just happening right now, and in fact it's retroactively solving the problem and trying to get an excuse for what's already been done. So we're talking like the government is going to do it now in case she hasn't already done it, as if that case hadn't already happened, and now we're going to have to amneste this budget by accepting this rebalancing, or bring it under the legislation, that, as a colleague said, someone wouldn't accidentally, in case some laws were applied, really ended up where they were supposed to end up. However, this brief information on budget rebalancing actually shows one great, huge possibility of abuse. The budget rebalance in this way and with everything already in Article 3 has been tried by some amendments, which we knew in advance were doomed and that they could not be accepted, and that's why we all feel a little bit like losers here, before all time. The attempt to correct budget rebalances with well-intentioned amendments and to draw citizens' attention to what is truly happening is as successful as a successful attempt to give transfusions to the Egyptian mummy, with the desire to bring her back to life. We will probably face even greater public spending next year, which this government has sworn to us, remember, somewhere before the New Year 2009, which we now send out, that it will not be increased, that drastic measures will be implemented, and that there have been drastic measures, but the desired result has lagged, the deficit has tripled. The first and important question to the government is – why did these measures not give us the desired result so pompously announced? Why did the government not accept such an announced restriction on itself, that it would be a savings leader? Not until today, for example, we have received an answer, and it has been asked as a parliamentary question, even if for only four cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister - how real funds are reallocated under contract services, in the context of specialised services. Or that famous item that appears every year and everywhere – equipment and machines, how much does the equipment and machine really buy in ministries, services, agencies? Is it true that every year we renovate these very computer systems in this way, when we are witnesses that some are very, very old and certainly quite elaborated for several years? So there are a lot of questions that we wanted answers to. I would like to draw attention to Article 4, in this particular amendment, because we have seen it not as a member of the bill that needs to be amended and complemented, but simply it is more rhetorical or more than some justification which is called a general place in literature. That's why it starts not as a legal member, but with these so mildly apologising words "extremely, in case it is," but in the event that it is our perfection, it is our plus perfection, our long time ago, it has already happened to us, and this high house needs its institutional role to strengthen something that has been illegally spent on behalf of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35012	The word is Mr. Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35013	For the sake of the public, I will have to read the provision of Article 4. A bill of this law, for clarity. He says: "In 2009 exceptionally, in the event that the receipts of the Serbian budget are made less than planned, the government decides that the amount of the aperitration that cannot be used is entered into the current budget reserve and can be used for purposes for which no funds are intended or for purposes not provided for by this law." Look, I'm just commenting on this first part, so if they don't come true in the budget, they don't limit enough resources to execute the appraisal, that's the situation. The government is deciding to introduce the amount of appraisal that cannot be used into the current budget reserve. How is he going to bring in something that's not enough, that's missing? The current budget reserve is not financed from non-existent revenues. It is financed from existing revenues. This is contrary to the provisions on the budgetary system which clearly states – the funds of the budget reserve will be used for unplanned purposes for which no apropriation has been established or for purposes for which adjunctions have been shown during the year not to be sufficient. This is quite enough for you to be based on Article 69. The law on the budget system, you do it. I don't know why you need this. You'll finance something from nonexistent funds. You can't finance any form or any appraisal from the missing assets. You refused for no other reason this amendment of mine, but we're moving on. I ask the question of the Minister of Finance – what is the fate of the general collective agreement? It's only because of the public that we have to point out how we got to the general collective agreement. Ten days before the 2008 elections, a general collective agreement was signed between employers, trade unions and the government. In November 2008, an annex was signed in which certain financial rights were given in terms of regression, a warm meal and past work, so that each worker in 2009 was required to provide the state with 7,000 dinars. In 12 months total, it's 84,000 dinars. What happened to that general collective contract? He's frozen. Such an official explanation is the joint meeting of the Economic and Social Council, which was attended by representatives of the government, the Trade Union and employers. How frozen? The law on bond relations does not know the term of freezing, non-application: either it exists with certain obligations of the one who signed it, or it does not exist; either it is applied or not applied. What is it for 2009 that should have been set aside for these purposes? For the state administration of 42 billion dinars, for local self-government of about 9 billion dinars and a mandatory social security organisation of 18 billion, totalling 69 billion dinars. About 12% of the budget. You were aware you couldn't honor it, but you signed it. You lied to the people, you lied to the state administration. It is now more than Dinkic's 1,000 euros. This is the second year that you didn't predict what was predicted, which is frozen. When will it be defrosted? Are there certain bills to find the funds, to provide the funds and to pay the funds to whoever they belong to, based on what's signed? You don't have an answer for this. Break the contract. A general collective contract must be put out of force. He's with this inappropriate freezing, he's practically out of force, but that's how you derrogate all the other collective contracts. This is a basic collective contract for all other contracts. What about special, what about individual etc? It's all out of control. It's one color in use, only because you're making false promises. These are false promises. Speaking of false promises, this is for you to believe or not. On one of my parliamentary issues that I referred to somewhere else during the first half of the year – how much funds were allocated during 2001 and 2008 for employment, then which state institutions had placed these funds, how many new workers were employed during that period and which international loans were completed and withdrawn for employment, etc., the Government gave me an answer in which it said – between 2001 and 2008, an average of around 250,000 persons were employed annually, noting that in 2008, around 100,000 were more employed than in 2001. From 2001 to 20008, it's, as a calendar view, eight years, times 250, that's two million people. We don't have an unemployed person. We need to import the workforce. It says here. You see what kind of answers this government is giving. Do you have an answer to this? You don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35014	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35015	Article 4 of this rebalancing means that the Government is asking us to grant it to spend funds for purposes not provided for by this law. This is one of the options in Article 9(3) which treats this Article 4. I can translate this through - the principle of the rights of citizens, the principle of the right of budgetary users to receive the funds they have been given by law, and the principle of government interest has been sacrificed to have the resources at their disposal and still requires that we allow it. Since the existence of the budget as a state budget, as an account that the government has laid down for its citizens in terms of fundraising and spending, it has never happened in history that someone has asked for funds to be spent under the budget law. Even Makiavelli didn't advise Montesquie in hell. So it's an unknown practice. What was necessary is that you identify negative and bad and prevent them, because doctors and moralists investigate negative phenomena, not to teach others how to spread evil, but to prevent evil and not to spread it further. The greatest evil there is is the misuse of money in the budget, and this member learns how to continue to expand and without accounting abuse of citizens' funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35016	The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, joint MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Zlata Djeric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35017	For all the reasons that I have cited for the submission of amendments to Article 4, we have also submitted an amendment to Article 5 in the same text, asking that it be deleted, in advance aware that the amendment has been condemned not to be accepted, and with a desire to maybe encourage, if not effectively awakening the government's thoughts to show more respect for the citizens who are the owners of the budget, whose resources have been given through a single management election. Respecting your role and your expertise, Madam Minister, knowing that in such a subtle, ethical nature you do not approve of many things, I object to you only to the fact that you have not fought for more rights, that in the Government you place yours more often and more strictly on many flows and much of the consumption, which I know you do not approve of. Public spending has been increased in our country. We've already seen the effects of that. There were no desired effects and the necessary and necessary effects that were promised to us and which would be some hope for the citizens of Serbia that some things would be more favourable and positive for them. It doesn't comfort us to know that social giving is increasing. On the contrary, we are very concerned, as we are concerned about hundreds of thousands of open jobs, hundreds of thousands of layoffs we have faced this year. For all these reasons, New Serbia will not be able to vote for this budget rebalance, will not support it in the voting day, will not support it, regardless of how it will not be able to change it for the citizens of Serbia and we sincerely regret it. We cannot support this because 700,000 people, after the recognition of this government, are the minimum figure, living below the limit of existence, which means without food, because, among other things, the Statute of Vojvodina, which is contrary to the Constitution of Serbia, is being adopted because of the scandalous re-election of judges, because the concession for building the Horgos-Pozega highway is worth two billion euros, which would significantly help avoid such erosions in the budget. Because the budget deficit has increased by 400m euros compared to last year, because only a quarter of the audit report is visible, because the diameter of the Gilas, Sapera, the Krstic firm's 500m euros in such Serbia, because the RIK members shared a fortune with each other and because of fraud with thousands of euros in actions, which we still do not see an epilogue because of the fraud of the century with the "Fiita" and because it really won't be able to do this for long, nor further.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35018	Gentlemen, since the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish a mandate for Members of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. We were presented with a RIK report on the assignment of seats to the MPs. We also received a report from the Administrative Committee, which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate had been met with the MPs, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5), should be approved. The Law on selecting Members of the People finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs. On the basis of the RIK report and the Report and the proposal of the Administrative Board, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate for MPs Goran Cvetanovic and Nemanja Sarovic, elected from the SRS election list - Dr Vojislav Seselj. I congratulate the MPs of the election and ask them to enter the O.R. if they are close. We'll call them. Now I've been informed they're not here, but from this moment on, they're right, and I'm pleased to find out that we're going to work together. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Donka Banovic. Mrs. Donka Banovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35019	Article 5 states that particularly in 2009, if additional transfer funds are allocated to compulsory social insurance organisations, then those organisations will include them in their financial plans in such a way as to bring the expenditure on this basis into line with the relevant apropriations. The amendment was proposed to add a new attitude. In fact, that is where we are trying and we want to clearly define which bodies are responsible for harmonising the social security organisations' financial plans. Article 2 would say that the Management Board and the Obligation Social Insurance Organisation make decisions on the alignment of financial plans, in a manner defined in the position of the 1st member, and consent to the decision is given by the Government. The bill promoter refused the amendment, which should have been accepted. Even in his explanation, he says it is not accepted because the provision of Article 5 of this proposal does not exclude the responsibility of the Management Board. Yeah, but then we can define differently, say that this member then doesn't include the jurisdiction of the boards of directors, because if something isn't defined, then it can and doesn't have to. I think the promoter could have accepted this amendment, because it would have been precisely what authorities are responsible for harmonising the financial plans.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35020	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Vojić-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35021	We submitted this amendment precisely because we wanted you to hear today in the Assembly what is the level of absurdity when it comes to rebalancing. According to the letter submitted by the promoter here, the rebalancing will take effect on the eighth day since the publication in the Official Messenger, which is funny and should be made public commentary. This rebalancing might have made sense if it had been in front of the MPs in September or was in October and after that, when the Assembly gave its approval that money would be collected into the budget and that money from the budget would be spent, it would remain a day or two so that money could be spent. So, this money was spent by the government without approval of the Assembly, the deficit is significantly higher than what she got permission to spend at the first rebalance in April, now it's 104 billion and now, when that money is spent, you tell us that, today is December 28th, we're discussing amendments, 29th, I guess, since the MPs are not here to be able to say by any sign that they're going to vote for this rebalance proposal, but it's obvious that they always vote, shut up and vote for what's ahead of them, and 29th you'll get the opportunity to say that the rebalance in the Assembly is due. How many days? In two days, 30 and 31 December, which is also a kind of absurdity. You are leading MPs, mostly the ruling majority, because the DSS will not allow itself to vote for something like this in front of MPs, you have given the ruling majority MPs the opportunity to vote for this proposal of rebalancing and to formally give the government consent to all the haughtiness in spending money. That's what he was talking about when he was the DRI report. In other words, we've tried this amendment to point to this absurd, this scandal you're giving us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35022	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? Yeah. ) The word has the finance minister, Mrs Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35023	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this way I assume that we have completed the debate in particular, when it comes to the second rebalancing for 2009. What I want to say again and what I said in my opening statement is that this is a rebalance where the level of public expenditure is unchanged, what it is, is income or what someone would say -- income percentages and resulting in deficits. The deficit is bigger. It amounts to nearly 105 billion dinars and is the result, under one, reduced revenues and under two, however, of funding such a deficit. I very often use one word, simply and myself, to get used to it, but like any budget, and this rebalancing is a compromise, a compromise between the state and fiscal policy, on the one hand, a compromise between the role of fiscal policy in terms of an economic situation like this, which is to be the creator of additional demand and additional liquidity. Finally, this deficit is lower than the upper limit of the one we've agreed with the IMF. There have been very many interesting amendments. I'd just go over what you suggested. A large number of amendments concerned income increases, spending cuts, deficit cuts and responsibilities. It's not in itself controversial and it's a great proposal for normal time, but unfortunately we don't live in it. However, by taking a closer look at what you really suggested, I looked at the expenditures that you are actually proposing, and even if we were to end everything that you don't like, the ministries, the cabinets, the vice presidents' cabinets, all those agencies that bother you, etc., these expenditures wouldn't provide 12 salaries, 12 pensions, 12 child benefits. I know you know that well. Of course, there were those who, although verbally but in written form, advocated the fall of public expenditure, again resented in their discussions that there were no expenditures, giving examples of insufficient public spending in certain municipalities. Also, those who advocated a reduction in public expenditure sought greater isolation for something called defence, science and agriculture. Rebalance is at the end of the year, and I can tell you what really happened. Far greater funds planned for maternity care, if you remember, which is why we've changed this law to reduce the space for possible abuses that have been observed. We didn't plan the flu, the flu happened to us, like everyone else. We had to separate the vaccines. Finally, as much as we really want to finish something that is the priority of this government, it is Corridor 10, all the backlogs that have been in the way since 2005 will be paid back to the travellers. It is indisputable that there are views with which I agree and there is nothing to hide, a smaller deficit, a lower responsibility, of course, it is not disputed. It is unacceptable for the state to compete with the economy, and it is also not disputed, but the view that it is unacceptable under the conditions of the crisis to increase public spending, if indeed it is controversial, and I would somewhere answer that finding by asking-- what do you think is better in terms of falling private demand, whether the state's fall or the state's growth? I guess Kanez is the most quoted economist lately, and he's just proven that public spending growth is the only way out of the crisis by reviving so-called. animal instinct, and when it comes to consumers of the population, and when it comes to economic operators abstaining from consumption, of course and willingly and reluctantly. A large number of you have been criticised by a member who essentially means increasing flexibility. Every budget, including this one, must be a real compromise, I repeat that word again, not only a political compromise, but a compromise when it comes to flexibility that can and must be allowed in the implementation of the budget and effective control. I would remind all of you who criticise the unrealisticity of the forecast or even use the word "surface" to remind you that uncertainty is an integral part of economic life in the market economy, that economic environment is complex, that things change quickly. For example, interest rates and rates of leading currencies in world markets are changing, the volume of foreign trade is changing, the price of the input, to remind you, food prices, oil are also very fluctuating. Also, political priorities can change because what it is in certain normal conditions, in times of crisis, doesn't necessarily mean. The answer to all these changes that can happen, which have been happening, is increased flexibility in budget implementation. There are really several ways to increase this flexibility. All in all, I'd say it has nothing to do with Makiavelli and it has nothing to do with irresponsibility, we've simply created one rigid system, and in that rigid system we're always subject to criticism, or when we don't react quickly enough or when we don't use the word "extremely". Like I said, there are several ways to increase this flexibility. One way is this larger budget reserve, and there are other much more subtle ways that I will probably talk about when we have a new law on the budgetary system and fiscal responsibility here. I am truly the last person to demean someone's work, and especially the work of the DRI, but still as a parent and as a teacher and, if you will, as an intern, I know that there is certainly no absolute truth. I know that something that is a standard and a way of working everywhere, there can certainly be no offense here. To conclude, we have to do everything possible to get out of this phase of the economic cycle. This implies everything, from relaxing monetary to relaxing fiscal policies, better done at this stage than less and better before later. If we really want to be honest and give an assessment of the results in 2009, comparing them not with the ideal state or state of prosperity but with concrete countries in our closer or further European environment, I would say, however, that the results are more favourable than most other countries and that the main reasons for this are fiscal incentives in the context of reduced public spending and a flexible exchange rate. So I ask you once again to think and support in the voting day a more flexible budget rebalance for 2009 than we all learned together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35024	Thank you, Madam Minister. I give the word to Mr. Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35025	I have a few more minutes as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. I thank Mrs Dragutinovic for this explanation. You said we should have understanding of something more flexible in this budget, because we have that system. I'd like to take the chance to remind you that we created such a system three or four months ago, because the Budget System Act was passed in July of this year. So if there was once a crisis and we knew we needed flexibility, then that's what we should have done when we passed that law. That wasn't a hundred years ago, that was three months ago. Now you're telling us when we've passed a new law in three months that it's going to make a difference. I don't know if it's going to change, for the simple reason that every day from the government we get completely diametrically opposite information. You sent a letter a few days ago about the IMF's intentions. There's no mention of the Vojvodine Development Bank. We passed a law that envisions the establishment of another state bank. There's no such thing in that document. Then what are we talking about? Of course, we agree that at a time of crisis, excuses are needed and different countries are looking for them in different ways. You have decided to increase the public debt, to finance spending through budgets, finance different projects to try to run the demand and start the economy. I can quote what the Prime Minister's advisor says about these projects. The prime minister has created a five-member group that advises him, Milojko Arsic, on these projects, says the next thing. First of all, there's absolutely no verification of these projects, or there's no analysis of these projects, except for the fact that we need Corridor 10, we don't have any other analysis here. There is everything and everything, from the railway Valjevo - Loznica and beyond. Mr. Arsic says -- different coalition partners are looking for foreign funding to implement projects from their jurisdiction, although some of these projects would not go through rigorous control and economic verification, while many other projects could be left to private investment. That's not what we say, that's not what the opposition says, that's what the man who advises the Prime Minister says. The Prime Minister can't fight it, and then you tell us that these projects are very good and that you need this and that you need it. There's absolutely no plan. You adopted the 2010 budget. Is that right? Is there an item in that budget - denationalisation? Your deputy secretary of state announces that we will pass a very soon denationalization law, so what are we going to do? Is that law going to apply or is it going to be a law that's a dead letter on paper? If applied, they need funds, if they need funds, they should be in the budget, if they're in the budget, why don't we see them? That's where Minister Mrkonjic comes in, so he says there are investments, but they're hidden. Where are they hidden? What kind of flexibility is that, then? We'll be flexible. You're adopting a budget because you spent 35 billion more than you should. You didn't spend it? Then how? What's this about? You have full flexibility to do whatever you want, but it's about that -- what do we do next when public debt increases, how do we pay it back? Is there a sustainability analysis? I'm not sure. So much for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35026	Thank you, Mr. Radovic. I am concluding a review of the 2009 draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in particular. After having carried out the examination of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 12th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Accounting and Audition (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dejan Mirović, Marina Toman, Vladan Jeremic, Sredo Perić, Bojan Mladenović, Mirko Munjic, Marina Ragus, Dusan Marić, Milorad Buha, Nikola Savinović, Dragan Stevanovic, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Boris Aleksic, Milan Nikolic, Momir Marković, Vladan Batić, Dragan Zivkov, Marko Milenković and Zoran Krasić. You received a report from the Finance Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, and pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Is Dejan Mirovic there? No, I don't. He's out. The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35027	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, you've been becoming a more skilled politician lately than it was at first. Now I'll explain how. I said when you criticized the work of the DRI and put him through the greatest sin that what he's doing for the first time, that you're a minister for the first time. I didn't say you were an intern. The Government Act, the Ministry Act doesn't know the trainee ministers, so the minister either is or isn't. Don't try to lead the polemics that way, but defend what we have argued here. What else did you take care of, and on what basis are we based on this statement that lately you've been making more and more efforts to deal with politics, to say that there would be no budget rebalance, there would be no 12th salary, there would be no 12th pension. So now we have to make our citizens cry, if the MPs here don't vote for your budget rebalance, there won't be 12 salaries and 12 pensions. The motive of everything in this time for each finance minister and each member of the government must be the savings and rational spending of the funds collected into the budget, and that is the point. There is no further development of some theories on the basis of which the mistakes and ignorance of this government could govern in crisis situations and predict certain events you transfer to the burden of the MPs or anyone else outside the government. The government ends the problem here, that is, its irresponsibility and how it comes to terms. If that were the case, here is another reason when it comes to the Accounting and Audit Act, which was adopted in 2006 and entered into force on 2 June 2006. The eighth EU directive, now in line with which we are proposing that this law be brought into line, was adopted on 17 May 2006. I guess that's when those who were, or who was the finance minister at the time, knew that there was a need to coordinate, because almost the government's composition was unchanged and those who were then also those who wanted to join the EU in the first place, not taking into account neither the integrity, sovereignty nor the citizens' standard. Then no one else to Mladjan Dinkic was the finance minister and I guess he knew that some EU directives were being prepared or was then not his sincere intention or today. Why is the Accounting and Audit Act not in conformity with this Directive yet? Our proposal is that the position of Article 3(3) of the solution which has been found to be the translation of international accounting standards from Article 1 of this article is adopted by the finance minister, and this solution is published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, as these solutions are part of the legal system of the state of Serbia, and they should be verified here in the National Assembly, and not left to be subject to their verification, or their approval, by the Minister of Finance. We do not know when who will be the finance minister and what his relationship will be to the regulations that should become an integral part of the legal system in the state of Serbia. Sometimes, or you'll almost never admit certain mistakes. Today we have major problems, and that is why this government has to allocate certain resources to the integration of the labour force. For what? Because there's not enough good and effective control to pay off the profits. Earlier when there was a Social Accounting Service, if there was a lack of one dinar, there was no pay, and today who knows how and how, when there are business banks, that job ends, and then the state has no even position, there is no correct attitude towards those who settle their obligations on time and on those who do not do so, and then instead, there are certain obligations for them and then those who buy mainly those enterprises with social capital are cheap and one of the big reasons for blocking a large number of businesses is to invest in buying these companies. The second question is now what is a real price, but they have mostly grown their appetites and it seems to them that, all of these are tycoons who are largely supporting this government and who have participated in its formation, see and want to say that in this country Serbia is all for sale, and that is certainly not the case, because the citizens of Serbia and the SRS will not allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35028	The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35029	This amendment shall require the removal of Article 9(1). A bill of this law. Let me remind you that this Article 9 is directly related to Article 15, paragraph 1) of the existing law, and this Article 15, in fact, regulates the issue of the contiguous framework, who is it that prescribes, let me say, the appearance and content of the contiguous framework. According to your concept, there are two ways or two concepts for prescribing the contiguous framework and containing accounts in the final framework for stock exchanges and brokerage companies, which are according to the old regulation, which is the subject of change in this Bill, Minister of Finance, or Ministry of Finance, and according to the new proposal that should be made, should be the Agency for Securities of Values. So, according to this new proposal, you establish the authority to set up a framework for investment funds and investment fund management companies, as well as a final framework for stock exchanges and brokerage companies by the Securities Agency. You give this agency something that has no authority and no credibility to do so. However, I would refer to one more question, which is the urgency of adopting this law, as well as the possibility of certain regulations having a return fact, certain provisions of this bill have a return fact. In your explanation, you say that the feedback of some of the provisions of this law is needed in order to submit financial reports to the Agency for Economic Registers as of January 1st. However, the proposer here says it is only theoretically possible that from January 1st someone submits a financial report, usually these financial reports have been submitted since February. However, it is theoretically possible for someone to endure January 1st, but it is for the other day. Indeed, a practical question is raised – who will submit this financial report to the Agency for Economic Registers, in a few days, so from 1 January 2010? The second question that can be asked here is, in fact -- why does the government always make things more important than they are, and it blurs out some others who are really important? Here I am referring especially to the report by this State Auditing Institution, a report that has been finalised in the second plan, which will only be discussed later, and this may be a more important issue right now - whether or not to submit a report to the Agency for Economic Registers? So, what is very important and what is much more important for this country and for the citizens, and that is the State Audit Institute Report, ended in another plan, because of some other issues that are really not so important. What do you want with that? This report, partly given by this State Auditing Institution, of 27%, as you know, to remind the esteemed MPs and citizens of Serbia, has identified indeed numerous irregularities that have been identified in this report. This report was done by your institution, let me say, directly dependent on the authorities. What would happen if a report like this had done and brought in a truly independent institution, we'd only have to see it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35030	On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35031	In this amendment, I have proposed that Article 2 be deleted, in Article 14, because it is unnecessary. On the other hand, in my reasoning, I have stated that in the legal regulations governing the place and role, the position of the law and the obligation of the Securities Commission nowhere stands a certain right from which this obligation provided for in Article 14(2) may arise. In point 2, you say, in point 2, the Securities Commission prescribes content and form of forms, financial reports for investment funds, investment fund management companies and stock exchanges and brokerage-distillery companies. It is simply strange that something that is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance or as you said in attitude 1 - Minister of Finance, to prescribe content, as was common, is established, such as practice in other Western countries, that it is done by competent ministries. They prescribe the form, the content of all reporting acts. Now you're inserting it into some state body that doesn't even need to deal with this. On the other hand, what is important to emphasise, unbound for this member, is that there has been a great deal of dust in the public eye on the State Auditing Institution Report, with the right, due to the huge failure of the state authorities in many procedures, and in particular in the procedures relating to financial separations, payments and so on. What is important to stress is that no one mentioned the place, the role, the function of the budgetary inspection. What did the budgetary inspection do to remove all that the state budget institution has established in its work for the past eight months? Disabling, for five years, you have been disabling the work of the State Auditing Institution. They don't even have adequate rooms right now, they don't have technical equipment, they don't have sufficient financial resources, they don't have technical and technological conditions for normal work and functioning. On the basis of surface work, no matter what they say 27% of the state's authorities have controlled it, there's no control, there's no control. It cannot be controlled in a way that individual, partialally selects a state body. This must be a permanent function. The permanent function of our legal system has a budgetary inspection. Mrs Dragutinovic, when did you submit information on the irregularities detected by the budgetary inspection of this Assembly and ask for certain measures? How many requests have been filed for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure? How many business offenses? How many criminal acts? You don't care about that. You see, when this comes out, something that's perfectly normal and common, but other state bodies that are control bodies, they don't do their function. What about internal control? First, internal control doesn't work for you. At least that's what it says in the budget that you are, you filed the report. Parliamentarians do not have complete information whether internal control, internal audit at the Ministry of Finance exists or not. We have no information. You have to inform this authority, it's your legal obligation, and you don't. Then why are we surprised by what the State Audit Institute has established? Because the other authorities provided for by law do not work, they are not in office. That's the basic problem. What have you done now to reorganize yourself, to organize this service, etc? The budget inspection must be in constant work, in a permanent capacity, to exercise control, to warn, and after that to file requests for violations and commercial offences, or possibly if there are criminal acts and criminal acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35032	Thank you, Mr. Buha. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we'll have a 60-minute break, we'll continue our work at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[After break – 15/05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been informed that on December 28th, so today, the possibility of direct transmission by 4:00 a.m. due to previously agreed obligations to transmit more sports events, and that from 11:00 p.m., if we work longer than 4:00 p.m. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35034	I think it made sense to discuss this amendment while Minister Diana Dragutinovic is there because this was an amendment of technical nature, and the government is similar to two amendments to this member and member of 20 other colleagues, Lidija Dimitrijevic and Boris Aleksic, accepted. We suggested in this article 18 that this "by the end of February" be replaced by "February 28th". We can't say that what the explanation says isn't right either, that it doesn't stand. It is indeed true that there are 29 days in the criminal year of February, as it stands here in explanation, but what you of the Government wrote was that the reason for not accepting this amendment was to be included and incorporated into this law, so that the government could find a way to accept what we proposed, that is to say, by the end of February, to write on February 28th and February 29th, respectively, in the criminal year. But it was probably difficult for the government, given that the government is unable to propose, nor is this assembly to vote, some law that is consistent and that would not change almost every year, but almost every two months, or three months. So our intention with this amendment was that those who would be in a position to apply this law more easily, especially in that segment relating to criminal provisions, but the government remained with one of its unspecified solutions, and it seems to me that this could produce some problems, especially in that part and segment, and if, possibly because of these penalties and criminal provisions, the parties, i.e. state and legal persons, i.e. companies, in certain court proceedings and debates. What we need to say for this law is that it does not bounce away from what we have so far had in the congregation. First of all, what is cited as the reason for the adoption of this law is to reconciling with EU directives. Mrs Dragutinovic, you have to admit the fact - this country has a much smaller problem with harmonising legislation with directives, that is, with this EU legal practice, compared to the fact that no EU directives are respected in this country, in this country the laws proposed by the Government are not respected, and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is adopted. It seems to me somehow that we are all tired of these arguments that say these laws are being adopted because of the conditions for reducing business costs for business operators in Serbia, and then again you say that transparency, legal security is increasing and costs are being reduced both by business entities and by the state. We have been repeating it in Serbia, or the government has been repeating it in Serbia for nine years as a mantra, and we are unable to get in the position that in this country things, when it comes to public finances, the functioning of all those who are directly or indirectly linked to public finances, are transparent. Watch the irony. The state boasts that these amendments and additions of laws will provide savings of around 90 million dinars per year, and in the report, DRI is only so controversial in the Ministry of Health at the service per contract. So, we don't have a problem that big with what's written on paper, what's our problem with manners and the principles of those who apply those laws. That part about the conscience of individuals who spend money from the budget can neither change nor improve any laws. Of course, here we should also say, let's even accept that part of this procedure, that is, what this law refers to, may be improved by this, but essentially, what you want to achieve cannot be achieved only by this, to isolate what I said earlier when it comes to manners, habits and patterns of behavior and the actions of your colleagues from the government. Here you have a problem that you and the DRI Act have to change, you need to improve it, you need to change the Budgetary System Act, which is really unspeakable, which Mr. Buha was just talking about. I say again, all of this when it's combined, all of it when it's brought into agreement, it's still something that's a matter of conscience, it's handled by individuals who need to be governed by those laws. We believe, the SRS thinks that simply everything that is being adopted will not really contribute to everything you want and what you write in the explanations, not because it may not be good or it's completely bad, first of all because individuals who have been running this country for nine years and these laws will have made no sense and any other decision to reason, to question, and Serbia will continue to cough in agony, to go on all sides like a goose in the fog. And every year we will listen – we are finally taking the first step, we are getting a historical report from the Auditing Agency, etc. Until someone else takes all this into their own hands and until the state and public interest are in the hands of those who really want public interest to deal with it, Serbia will not be able to welcome, as you said earlier, the normal time. My question for you – how long will we live in a time that is not normal? I can't have a global crisis, flu, etc. that there may be excuses and justification for the troubles in which we are. The responsibility is primarily for those who lead and implement the politics of the Republic of Serbia, and it seems to us that when problems arise, you are not ready to call those who are guilty to account. In such a country, there is no happiness, there is no recovery and there is no perspective.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35035	Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35036	On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 23 of the proposed law, where the word "minister" is replaced by "ministerism". The SRS is in principle on the ground that the tasks provided for by this position are prescribed by the competent ministry. The amendment of this law regulates questions from the accounting section, as well as financial reports, audits now being submitted to the Business Registers Agency, and earlier it was the NBS. The Agency shall regularly update all this information and shall make it known on its website. According to the National Bank of Serbia, the number of economic operators who have to review their 2009 financial reports is moving around 6.556 and we have about 130 authorised auditors who are employed in 40 companies. All these services have their own price, so they're not so low, so they move somewhere between 200,000 and 1,000,000 dinars and more, depending on the size of the economic operator. For economic operators, companies are also prescribed deadlines to submit their financial reports and also have to carry out a review of these financial reports. On the other hand, we have budgetary users who do not have such precise terms, they are in the jurisdiction of the State Auditing Institution or of budgetary inspections. We had a budget inspection report for 2008. Budgetary inspectors have visited some 77 or 78 budget users and there have been no registered objections on them, only seven or eight. Large funds are required to return to the budget, whether they are local self-government or public enterprises. The state audit institution has exercised control over several ministries and administrations and we have seen the irregularities found, but by the will of most of this Assembly we were unable to discuss. So, according to the Law on the State Auditing Institution, they are obliged to exercise control of the Republic budget annually, then the National Bank of Serbia, while for public enterprises and local self-government a number. If we know that there are about 9,000 budget users somewhere, we can calculate that way that some entities would have budget users only come in a hundred years to control. Therefore, budget users need to be evened out and controlled because we see funds spilling away and spending without control, and there are machinations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35037	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35038	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think at first we found that trust in financial reports is actually a prerequisite for work and educated accountants, then standardised foundations, harmonised principles, transparent and fair financial reporting data. Unfortunately, when it comes to this bill we're discussing, it seems to me that there are a lot of gaps, so it's hard to respect these principles. By regulating the revision in the law in the way it is regulated, without quality control, I think it further contributes to reducing the reliability of the financial report. The formation of a chamber of authorised auditors and the adoption of certain rules by its authorities have practically transformed the audit into a closed-type business, in which more than 40,000,000 euros in revenue has been made from 30 companies in 2008, without any responsibility, so that the revision of the financial report is of no special importance to the public, except for a good job for audit firms and a significant cost for clients of mandatory audit. In particular, the issue of the number of authorised auditors, their professional and age structures, the education programme and the ways of nosetriification and the acquisition of qualifications for the performance of this job is problematic. Certainly, there are very few authorised auditors, given the number of legal persons who have the obligation to audit, so if it is known that about a hundred authorised auditors are auditing about 5,000 financial reports, then it is clear what the quality of these audits is, with a particular question -- who does such reports need? What we also have left in this bill is quite a lack of respect for the harmonisation of international accounting standards, international standards of financial reports and international accounting standards, where the law regulates this possibility for legal entities or bodies that are entitled to translate and implement this regulation from international regulatory bodies. I only remind myself that the Union of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia is the only one who has the right to membership in the international association and other professional bodies to do so. What is Serbia and the society in which we live and what is necessary is exactly one quality bill, which would just enable what is meant as the basis of all this, which is a high degree of reliability of financial reports and auditors' reports. So far the experience of such a bill is still far from the situation from which we will be able to discuss the mentioned problem in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35039	The word is Mr. Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35040	We support this amendment by colleagues, because we have had more situations lately, whether we should mention the NIS business audit situation in 2008, where we had practically three audits that were done, which were completely different from the audit houses that were completely different and in different ways worked. They probably also applied different methods, and who knows, maybe they were suggested by the orderer himself how to do that bill review. We've seen different figures, from plus two billion dinars to minus eight billion dinars, so basically the whole law still doesn't solve and will not solve these situations, but this amendment helps at least a little bit. It could also help the government in this entire announcement of a course to be held for accountants, accountants in the government. We may have a more responsible and better law in this way and if some of these amendments were adopted, it might not have to be done, in this way spending taxpayers' money, although this incompetent government is used only to spending money and borrowing. It cannot help those who need to earn that money and that the state of Serbia lives on its work, not on credit. We have such situations, who knows what the DRI auditor will find for, say, 2009 in the government's budget. Who knows how ministers behave, ministerial assistants, deputies, state secretaries, those hundreds of people, who are extremely incompetent, obviously, because the state in which they are, economically, who knows what they can find? I wouldn't be surprised if they were to register, say, and some of the bills in the restaurants were luxurious, expensive, signed by the spouses of ministers, state secretaries, assistant ministers. I can't remember now, the only one who can think of who I know is Mrs. Natasha Jeremic. At least I'm looking at her on RTS, on the journal. How do we know if she was somewhere with a spouse, with an ambassador's wife, at some dinner, if she signed a bill, and then it went on and off. I'd like to say, let's say DRI, to check something like that out and see. Then, of course, the guilty accountants, accountants, and they should be eligible under this law, and in fact, you know who's guilty, the one who's the client, the one who works that way. These are all some things that this government puts us into completely pointlessly and then instead of solving these problems, we get some draft laws that don't solve all these things, but maybe even more complicated. We're starting new bodies again, starting again, I don't know, agencies, chambers, funds. We're going to increase public spending again, rather than cut. We have seen today in the debate that public spending has not actually been reduced at all, that it is so, so, 43-45%, that it is always such a situation and that nothing is better. Therefore, it would be good for the government to accept some of these amendments, although once again, when we have seen the amendments and the whole law, we have come to the conclusion that it is not good in principle, either, that a whole new and completely different law should be written.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35041	Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 39, i.e. In its view, the 3rd Minister of Finance is obliged to respond within 30 days to the receipt of the complaint, the solutions, the decision and the appeal, by applying my amendment to replace the "Minister" with the words "Ministership". The Serbian Radical Party is not trying to do this for the first time in this law, but in previous laws it has been trying to replace the word "minister" with "minister". There was no hearing of such a will, i.e. for the acceptance of amendments submitted by the SRS. I believe that the minister, in certain ministries, is also proving now, after the audit committee that there has been malfeasance, that there have been irregular and irregular actions in consumption, in the use of budget funds. I believe that, since he himself is the president of the state, Boris Tadic said that he was and that he would take a step with such ministries, i.e. To the ministers, resolve the situation of irregularities, but according to the DS rule, and the ruling coalition and the government, that only the dead letter on paper and the words spoken by the president -- probably nothing will happen, because the prime minister also said that now the lie has fallen and the fault of the accountant and we have heard it. Anyway, the amendment is absolutely treated as a human factor, which is important, for example, in your ministry, Madam Minister, at the Ministry of Finance, where the largest resists regularity, as regards businesses for this job that will be doing audits and companies that are obliged to do audits, now perhaps the minister in the case of his ministry will put his paws on such enterprises and cut down certain audit reports, which the companies registered for audit reports will also do in a positive and negative way. If the politically-like owner of the company is obliged to carry out the audit, it will be privileged, and even the audit report will be counterproductive if it is not politically similar.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35043	National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the closing statement, Madam Minister? Here you go. Mrs. Diana Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35044	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a draft law on accounting and audit. I listened carefully to the discussion in detail. I'd still like to say a few sentences. First, all of us here clearly know that it is a law that regulates the matter of corporate accounting and audits of financial reports of economic operators in the country. The main objective of the change of this law was to reduce business costs of operators and the cost of the existence of parallel procedures. In a concrete case, reception, registration, processing, disclosure of financial reports will no longer take place in two institutions, as has been the case at the National Bank of Serbia and the Agency for Economic Registers. Since 1 January 2010, surrender and report, their processing, as well as disclosure, will only take place at the Agency for Economic Registers. I don't think there's any dispute here about how the NBS and this Bonity Center have ever performed this function. I think he was doing it very professionally, but it's definitely that the economic operators were more burdened than it would be since 2010. This agency will also download items and documentation and archives, databases, resources for work, a certain number of employees of the Bonity Centre, the necessary information base, so there will be no shortages of a new organisation. The proposed solution will lead to the concentration of existing resources, the Department of Business Registers of NBS and the Agency, the rationalisation of the number of employees, and the central bank will be free of those jobs that are nowhere in the world and are not central bank jurisdiction. As for the amendments you have offered and discussed, of the 20, three have been accepted, those are those relating to the timing for the submission of financial reports, that it be April 30th, instead of the end of April and October 31st, instead of the end of October. Also, an amendment relating to the proposed amount of fines for a violation that can be committed by an authorised auditor has been accepted. Other amendments, although I don't argue that they are very useful, such as that the term ‘economic society’ is used instead of ‘enterprise’, or amendments relating to the transfer of certain competences to the Securities Commission have not been accepted at this time, but only at the moment. Let me remind you that in 2010 this law will be brought into line with the European Directive, that I hope that in 2011, we will have a fully harmonised law with the European Directive. Finally, as the debate on each law comes down to the debate on the budget, I might have ended up with a few sentences, if today I had tried to defend the existence of a certain degree of flexibility when it comes to the budget, as opposed to a certain rigidity that exists, I had been criticised for the fact that the Budgetary System Law had been almost changed and that there was somewhere to think about it earlier. I think we should all get used to the fact that laws change, that they don't change quickly just here, but everywhere, that frequent changes in laws essentially make countries progress, that the laws themselves are perfected year after year, but not only that, that there is progress year by year in the application of the law itself. I wouldn't comment on the remarks about the presence or absence of political talent, but I really did use the term "expert" because I'm really the first time a finance minister and I don't think that everything a man does for the first time and not just for the first time, everything a man does as a parent and as a professor doesn't mean he does without error. We're all wrong, so it's possible that the state auditor is also wrong. It is important that the mistake is not intended, that no one is harmed and that it can be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35045	I thank Mrs. Minister, who gave the closing statement in accordance with Article 144. Rules of Procedure. I hereby conclude the review of the draft law amending and supplementing the Accounting and Audit Act, in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 13th point of the agenda: – Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Economic Registre Agency (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljna Miladović, Borisa Pošurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Natasa Jovanović, Vladan Milatna Miladinović, Mileta Poskurica, Milajko Radić, Milića Milić, Milića Milić, Milića Milić, Mirića Milić, Milić. You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from Ambassador Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35046	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment is purely technical. It seems to us that you have put this word "self-sustained" in Article 5(2) and that is why we have proposed to delete it. We don't think that because of what you wrote in the explanation of your amendment, we really haven't disputed what's written here for a moment. We didn't question the performance of the obligation or, let me say, the complex jobs the agency has, nor did we want to challenge the agency's independence with our amendment. Since the amendment is of a technical nature, one simple question. By handling what you wrote in your explanation and what's here, you could say in point one: it's self-rule by law and by other regulations of established records and other electronic databases. This is purely technical. We think this is a "self-sufficient" surplus. You have burdened this point needlessly. We really didn't want to question the independence of the agency in this amendment, and I think you might have accepted this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35047	Mr. Dragan Shormaz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35048	My colleague, independence is a very important point, for example, whether the agency determines the wages, profits on its own. Does the Minister know what the Director of the Agency's salary is? You don't know? Do you want me to tell you? The salary is 260,000 dinars now frozen, probably, and is also entitled to official cars, vehicles, mobile phones, representation and everything else. Serbia's tourism organisations -160,000 are their salaries. You will now freeze it at that level, although some ministers say it will not be frozen because we will have a growth of 1.5% in 2010. We'll have no 1.5% of our growth. That's a lot, that's one impressive growth. So much for Montenegro this year, with the global economic crisis of growth. In the Tourist Organisation of Serbia, they only travel. Which tourist did they bring? They're travellers, as if they weren't tourist workers. Do you know who they brought here? No, I don't. Do you know who they organized to come? The Agency for Private Registers has 260,000. That's why he needs independence, where are his advisors on that big salary? He can't lead on his own, but he has to have counselors, so he pays his counselors, and everyone else. Then we have public spending. Of course we do. And for DRI 58% increase, that's 155 million dinars. How much pay it takes to be auditors - 60,000. It's a four-and-five salary from the Director of the Business Registers Agency. Is it more important to control an auditor, to fight corruption, or is this salary important? Whose money is more important? Should we have several hundred auditors or three? Do they need to check the local self-government deficit, public enterprises, how money is spent there, whether it's in accordance with the law or not? Who's supposed to have bigger wages? I repeat, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this gentleman who's a director or a lady, I don't know who the director is, it doesn't matter, he has your five salaries when you calculate. Not to say that you don't have the right to a paid cell phone, you don't have a service car, you don't have a team, but this cheaper restaurant and we're in the papers, we're on TV, and where are they? They're not there, and they're entitled to the journals, and we don't have that either, and they have the right to the journals, and then they're entitled to travel abroad and wonders. All the time, some training, courses, never learn. They're coming to the director's office, and they're mostly in class. It's public spending that's a problem. It is not a pension problem, it is not a problem for officials in the Assembly or the salaries of officials in the government, your problem is according to those calls that spend money, and then those who need to control them in independent regulatory bodies, in accordance with European standards, are full of the EU's mouth, should have five times less salaries than they do and control them and come to work there. Well, why come here to work? They'd better get a job with those agencies or private firms.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35049	National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Susana Grubjesic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35050	The truth is, the director's salary for business registers is 160,000 dinars, no deputies and no advisors. I don't know where my esteemed colleague got this data, but he can check it out, his salary was cut when all the directors in public companies were cut.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35051	Mr. Dragan Shormaz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35052	Now I know it's from G17. I didn't know that. Now I know he's the director of G17. All right, let's make it 160,000. Make sure you're right. I'm telling you about the Tourist Board, it must be 160,000. There's 260,000 here, I say. If I'm wrong, maybe because he's listed with bonuses, journals, and that's all the receipts, let's see what his full receipts are, not what's a fixed salary. And our salary is 75,000 to 80,000, depending on the years of internships here, but no newspaper says we have that kind of salary. It says everywhere that we have over 100,000, 105, 110,000. It says somewhere that our salary is 200,000. When they calculate our travel expenses, when they calculate our passport, they write us that much. But let's make it 160,000, so isn't that three times more than the auditors? Is it 160,000 or DRI more important to them? Why didn't you answer that? Shall we fight corruption and crime? Obviously not. If he has three times the salary, not five times, as I said the first time, from the auditors, if we don't have the money but 155 million dinars for the DRI, and 500 million for the Old Mountain, so much the Old Mountain is more important than the DRI, the Old Mountain will pay us back our money, and the DRI won't. He wants a lot more than the Old Mountain and saves up, only that he has a way of working. That's the point of what I said, not whether it's 160 or 260. In any case, it's disproportionate to what we need as a state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35053	Mrs. Susana Grubjesic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35054	Now I've learned that he's headed by the DSS Council as soon as Mr. Shormaz shakes his salary, how much his budget is, how much they don't have room and everything. Let me remind you that my parliamentary group has made an amendment to last year's draft budget, just to increase, to double DRI funds and to allow them to work smoothly. Mr. Sretenovic was your proposal and was elected as such in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35055	No more replicas, you can within time. Here you go, Mr. Shormaz. You've got five minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35056	I don't care, so what, did you vote for him? Whose proposal was it? You were in that government. You voted for him. The man was doing his job. Apparently he was doing his job. It was also supported by the President of the Republic, as far as I can tell. What does it matter which party he's a member of? Otherwise, he said he was a member and that he was out of the party because he needed to be independent. That's one. Two, has that amendment of yours been adopted? It's not. I gave with more money than you and this year I gave. Unfortunately, I wasn't here because of the disease. I found 850 million dinars in the budget on that 150, to make it a billion. That amendment was rejected. Yes, 850 I took off ski resorts, from the Serbian Tourist Organisation, from Kopalnik, from the contract service, from the minister's trip and transferred money to the DRI. You didn't vote for that amendment. You're not. Last year I went to the DRI, let the minister say, also defined the money for the Serbian Army to be 2.4% of the budget. You turned him down, too. And now you've turned down the same thing. I found 850, a billion dinars, and it certainly could have been to buy them buildings and equipment, and raise their salaries and increase the number of employees. You won't do it. That's not what you want. How, then, could the ministry of everything and everything, the economy, regional development, tourism, the Stara Planina, the Kopalnik and everything else rent an agency where Mom is in the board, give 10 million dinars to work, if the DRI works full capacity, how does she normally work in EU countries? It couldn't have happened then. That's the thing. Your mouth is full of the EU, but only what Shaper and Krstic draw for you, and when it comes to doing nothing. So then you work the way it was done at some time that you say you were against them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35057	The People's MP Milorad Buha, who wants a word, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35058	I suggest you delete Article 3. It is that you do not have the principle of adopting and amending a uniform legal regulation, which is the Law on public agencies which provides for the rights and obligations of all public agencies, as well as any other provisions relating to their business, functioning and normal work. In fact, you have provided this member with ways to finance the Agency for Business Registers and in fact copied everything that is stated in the basic law, the parent and the system law on the work and business of public agencies, which is, in the end, unnecessary. If you've passed a uniform regulation, if you've been working on a uniformity, it's inappropriate to break it not only by this law, but by a number of regulations, you're changing that system law with an explanation that you're giving some other authority. Why? That uniform law has made it clear to you in Art. 51, 52 and 53 ways and conditions of funding agencies. The full width has that regulation and there's no need to add or subtract anything. What models do you have in the Agency's founding system? You have one model when you start it under this law. The second model is when you start it under a special law, and the third model is a little bit of each other. It is extremely unnecessary, if you have unified the legal rules on the establishment, given the rights and obligations of a certain state institution, in this case to the Agency and then adhere to all the provisions of that legislation. Then we have a uniform right. It's very unnecessary to break it up, to separate it. It's a practice where you work, a very bad practice, and we unnecessarily create certain norms, which then become excesses, which differ, etc. And then we have a number of regulations that we have diluted something that is unique and unified.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35059	National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35060	Article 5 provides for the removal of the existing Supervisory Board so far and we believe that the removal of the Supervisory Board is not a good practice, because it will reduce labour control and responsibility control in the work of the Agency for Economic Registers. What am I documenting this with? You claim that the Public Agency Act is something that obliges you to abolish the Supervisory Board because the Public Agency Act does not provide for it. It is precisely this Law on Public Agencys that has allowed what can be called the chaos in public finances, and I will give you an example only from your documentation, from the control of the budgetary inspection, where one of the first agencies, the Republic Telecommunications Agency, which, in accordance with the law, whose solutions you are calling for, has reduced the revenues of the 2007 budget by 69 million republican and 1,411,000 incomes from the AP Vojvodina, by paying a non-omergent advance for the lease of a private company for 2008 amounting to 55,800,000 dinars. And not only that, but they've still invested 14.769.000 dinars for investment that are not included in the cost of the lease, and that's what puts money in the water from the aspect of the budget users and you as finance minister. This allowed them such a good Law on the Public Agency and the control and application of the law by the Republic government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35061	The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the parliamentary group Forward Serbia and joint MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) (Jorganka Tabaković, from the post: I explained the amendment to Article 5. This is an amendment to Article 6.) Please, this was on Article 5, too. Just a moment to take a look. You couldn't have done it twice. This was on Article 6. You were talking about an amendment to Article 5? All right. Does anyone want to talk about the amendment to Article 6, in the same text, which was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia", together MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic? Mr. Veroljub Arsic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35062	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that as time goes by, you're with this Agency for Economic Registers instead of making something easier, you've done a good and lucrative business. The amendment that I made on behalf of the SNS is just about that. First, to remind ourselves, some were then MPs defending this agency, the Agency for Business Registers, designed to register companies, that this is no longer done by commercial courts, and the reason is to reduce costs, increase efficiency, get solutions and various permits. Finally, the list, i.e. the register of legal entities and entrepreneurs carrying out one particular activity, is now being kept in writing and operated in electronic form. What if someone came up with it, so they said, it doesn't matter what the state and the agency spends on a huge amount of money to run the list in electronic form, but it's only going to be derived from the register of legal and physical persons and not older, it was first one year, six months, and now it's three months. I'm asking why two registers? So you can't open any account at a business bank unless you have a copy of the Business Registers Agency that's not under three months old. In order to get one such copy, other than the requirement you have to file, you also have to pay a tax that is not that small, it is about two thousand dinars. (President: Time, just bring the end, please. ) All these banks or business entities already have on the Agency for Business Registers site, so even if there is talk about the amount of earnings the Director has and it doesn't even need much less to have, given what his obligations are, but in some subsequent amendment I will continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35063	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35064	Now this is a small contradiction to the Budget Law. So, Article 6 states - if the annual account of income and expenditure finds that the total revenues of the agency are greater than the total expenditure incurred, the difference of funds is transferred to the budget of the Republic of Serbia or used for the development of the agency. Didn't we now, in the budget, predict that the surplus of revenue generated by a state body must go to the budget of the Republic of Serbia? Why do we give the Agency for Business Registers, which has an absolute monopoly, has no competition whatsoever, that it has an obligation prescribed by the National Bank that every economic operator must pay a fee for each APR copy and that must not be more than three months old? You think that pays at the end of the company? No, he pays that end-user service. That's the problem when he's doing all this. Where does the director's right to determine, beyond the board of directors, the systematization of jobs and the number of employees in the Agency for Economic Registers? You give certain rights to various officials so that they can hire whoever they arrive and wherever they arrive, and then we can pass a law on reducing the state administration. All the special laws they're worth, when only a few months later, we have a law that cancels it all out. This story that the Agency's director should be appointed for five years, it's obvious that someone is becoming aware that the government is finally variable and that after ten years they won't be in power, but let's protect our officials by law, let them stay where they are, let them do what we haven't been able to finish and a little bit more. They're not going to steal, they're going to steal now, until, by some miracle, we get back to power again. I don't know what practice it is in European legislation for directors to be for five years. Usually, as long as it takes for the government to appoint the director, it takes the term of office of director, at least in such bodies whose work is not difficult to organize.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35065	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment includes joint mid-day MPs Zlata Đerić, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35066	We have submitted an amendment to Article 9, where all the authorisations and obligations of the registrar are well-determined, but never, as is the case, for those representing the state and in its name prescribes something, requires, imposes, does not prescribe responsibility. With this amendment, we have prescribed that the registrator should respond for the failures or unlawful conduct that has been established, not arbitraryly, not under official duty, but when a complaint before the competent court, in some intended procedure, initiates a procedure for the damage that has been done to him, that it should simply be covered by this law. Do you know what the government says in rejecting this amendment as an explanation? The amendment is not accepted because it does not comply with the legislative and legal technique and in a legal and technical sense it is unacceptable. Are you aware that someone will read this to the citizens? When you seek responsibility for the authority you appoint, you justify yourself by methodology, good intentions, and the damage suffered by quite concrete people, and you have in this report where you say that, in addition to the consent of the Directorate, a contract was concluded, for example, about the lease, that such contracts were void, but someone paid a lease for an illegally concluded contract and no one should bear any damage. Whether or not someone who suffers from damages when you have been irresponsibly refuting the amendments, the citizens will issue an account for you, I'm sure. Thank you for refusing this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35067	The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35068	In Article 11, we propose to replace the words "exterior auditor" with the words "state auditor". The words "internal audit" aren't just words. When a man controls himself, we know how effective it is. When it's controlled by an external auditor, that's what it is -- pay someone to write the opinion you're asking. There's not much professionalism or responsibility. When you have a state auditor who did the job, started a job as it is, then it's a requirement that anyone who does a job in the name of the state and asks citizens to pay him for the job, means, collects some income, must be controlled by a state auditor, which is usually the law, and in that sense this amendment is, in fact, a confirmation of the Law on the State Auditing Institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-28-0.u35069	The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for Economic Registers, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, set Tuesday, December 29th, 2009, starting at 10.00pm as the day for voting on the agendas of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. So, I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Since we're all going to be in session tomorrow, which is why I don't want to congratulate you today, or on the voting day, we're going to be participating, so today I don't want to thank you for the extraordinary co-operation of all the MPs during this calendar year and I don't want to wish for a happy New Year, we're going to do it tomorrow. If there's anyone who won't be here tomorrow, I'm taking the opportunity to wish for everything that's best on my own and professional agenda. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that we are 131, and in order to determine the number of MPs in the O.R., please insert the cards into the MPs' units. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I find that there are 127 MPs present at this point in the hall, and that there are conditions for us to continue our work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs: Milica Radovic, Bajram Omeragic and Riza Halimi. Since the National Assembly has completed a search on all points of the agenda, we move on to a decision. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE SURVEILLIONS Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on emergency situations in principle to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, all 127 voted in favour of the proposal. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this motion to the vote. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 123 voted yes. The amendment has been accepted. The third amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 119 MPs came forward. The amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 120 MPs came forward. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of 127 MPs, one vote for. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 117 MPs voted for this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 11th amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 117 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 12th amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 113 MPs voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Donka Banovic and MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. To the title above Article 14, the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic and joint MPs Milica Vojić-Marković and Donka Banovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Vladimir Milentijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 118 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 118 MPs voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic jointly submitted the 16th amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 121 MPs voted for it. The amendment has been accepted. The 19th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic and joint MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 116 MPs voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Gentlemen, we are pleading on the amendment to article 19, which was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. For six of 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 20th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 116 voted in favour of the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic jointly submitted to the 28th amendment. Of 129 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 115 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 35th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 121 MPs voted for this amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 112 voted for the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 52nd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 57th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 64th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 79th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, 112 voted for the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 80th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 114 voted in favour of the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 81st amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, 111 voted in favour of the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 100th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 129 MPs, 118 voted in favour of the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the motion to vote on emergency laws, in general. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted for the law in general. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on emergency situations. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF FIRE PROTECTION Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the draft fire protection law to the vote, in principle. Of the 129 MPs, 124 voted for the bill in principle. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. On the basis of Article 148(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected, as incomplete, an amendment to a member of the first group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group. The rejected amendment cannot be discussed and is not voted on. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to making amendments. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. Of the 129 MPs, 8. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Members Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the 8th amendment together. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 118 voted for this amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Parliamentarians Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the 17th amendment together. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the 20th amendment together. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 21st Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 121 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Members Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the 22nd amendment together. Of the 129 MPs, one voted for. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Members Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the 26th amendment together. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 115 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 33rd amendment, with the correction of the reasoning, was submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, one voted for. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 33rd amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, the nicos. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Vlahovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 6. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 40th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Aleksandar Vlahovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 42 and 42. Of the 129 MPs, 7. The amendment was not accepted. The 43rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Vlahovic. Of the 129 MPs, three voted. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 44th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 114 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 49th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 51st amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 113 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 52nd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Avramovic submitted to the 55th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted an amendment, with a correction, to Chapter IV. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 128 MPs, 117 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Vlahovic submitted to the 80th Amendment. Of the 128 MPs, two voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the motion to vote on fire protection laws, in general. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed a draft fire protection law. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Security and Information Agency since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Security and Information Agency Act, in principle. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 129 MPs, one voted for. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Justice and Administration have submitted an amendment to Article 3. I remind you that the amendment of the Committee on Justice and Administration is to Article 3. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia shall enter into force on the eighth day from the date of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, as established at the time of their adoption. In the light of the amendment to Article 3. The draft law, the Committee for Justice and Administration stated that it is necessary to bring the law into force early in order to enable it to be applied on 1 January 2010. In view of the above, I note that by deciding on the amendment, the National Assembly will at the same time determine whether there are particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this law. The government has accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the National Assembly accepted the amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs and thus found that there are particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this law, provided that the deadline has been established. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote a bill amending the Security Information Agency Act as a whole. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted for the law in general. The National Assembly passed a bill amending the Security Information Agency Act. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and DEFINITIONS OF CRIME LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in detail, we move to a decision. I am putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code in principle. Of the 134 MPs, all 134 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that it is the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 148(2). Rules of Procedure, rejected as an incomplete amendment to Article 4, which was filed by the Parliament of the Verse of Radet. In accordance with Article 148(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, the rejected amendment cannot be discussed and shall not be voted on. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 134 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The third amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 4th amendment. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, added by new Article 4a, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac and Dejan Radenkovic. Of the 134 MPs, 7 voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs: Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milic, Zoran Ostojic, Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The proposing representative, during a review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment in the basic text is legal but has not considered the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 134 MPs, 124 is in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code in general. Of the 134 MPs, 133 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF A PARENT PROCEDURE Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in detail, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on litigation, in principle. Of the 133 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since we have adopted the bill in principle, we are moving to a decision on amendments. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 131 MPs, 7 is for. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 6th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Of the 129 MPs, 6. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted the 20th amendment together. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 34th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 38th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 51st Amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 52nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Milovanovic submitted to the 55th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Pursuant to Article 55 of the amendment, the Committee on Justice and Administration has submitted, pursuant to Article 142(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Proposer Snezana Malovic, minister of justice, accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 129 MPs, 124 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. I remind you it's article 56. The bill envisions that the law enters into force on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. In the light of the draft law, the Government stated that a particularly justified reason for the early entry into force of this law is the necessity for the law to enter into force by 1 January 2010, when the new Law on the Regulation of Courts and Laws on Seats and Areas of the Courts and Public Prosecutors begins, and thus, with the work of the start-up and the new organisation of courts and public prosecutors established by those laws. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. Of the 129 MPs, 128 is in favour. The National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Prosecution, in general. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted for the law in general. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prosecution. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE GOVERNMENT LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on administrative disputes to the vote, in principle. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Under the name of the law, the amendment was filed by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 128 MPs, 120 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Justice and Administration have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The government has accepted the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 128 MPs, 123 voted yes. The amendment has been accepted. Ambassador Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Justice and Administration have submitted an amendment to Article 5. The government has accepted the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 128 MPs, 123 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 129 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of 129 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. We declare the amendment to Article 25. Dejan Mirovic. Of the 129 MPs, 122 voted yes. The amendment has been accepted. National MPs Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the title above Articles 28th and 28th of the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of 129 MPs, 121 for. The amendment has been accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 40th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Mirko Munjic submitted to the 40th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 44th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The assembly has not voted in favour of the amendment. Members of the 45th amendment were submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting him to a vote. Of the 129 MPs, 120 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 116 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. On behalf of Head of the IX above the 49th Amendment, MP Zoran Krasic submitted. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 50th amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 122 voted for the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 50th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 71st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 75th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 123 were declared. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 77th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 121 were declared. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I remind you it's article 79. The bill provides for the law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particular reasons for this when they are adopted. In the light of the draft law, the Government stated that the reasons why it is proposed that the law enters into force the next day from the day of its publication stems from the fact that the law on the regulation of courts, which under the new judicial network, is being applied in the Republic of Serbia as of 1 January 2010, provides for the establishment of a administrative court (which will be tried in administrative matters) and the Supreme Court of Cassation (which will decide on extraordinary remedies declared to court decisions in the Republic of Serbia). For the legal protection of citizens and the establishment of objective legality of resolution in administrative and other intended individual matters, according to the Constitution, the new Law on Administrative Disputes must apply from the very beginning of the functioning of the new judicial network in the Republic of Serbia, so as not to have adverse consequences for the work of the judicial authorities and the protection of the rights of citizens in administrative disputes. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 129 MPs, 127 were declared. The National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on administrative disputes in general. Of the 129 MPs, 126 were declared. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on administrative disputes. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF CRIMES Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Infractions, in principle. Of the 129 MPs, 125 were declared. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. I remind you that MPs Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic, have writtenly withdrawn amendments to Articles 206b, 206v and 206g, which they submitted on 21 December 2009. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the “ Forward Serbia” Group. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the “ Forward Serbia” Group. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Krasic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 20th amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 21st Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 25a be added after article 25a. During a review of the bill's proposal in particular, the proposer's representative, the minister of justice, accepted the amendment. Of the 130 MPs, 125 were declared. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Infringements, in general. Of the 130 MPs, 127 were declared. The National Assembly passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Violations. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Insufficient Behavior in Sports Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events, in principle. Of the 135 MPs, for 132. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. On the basis of Article 148(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected, as an incomplete amendment of the People's MPs of Sreto Peric, who proposed that a new member of the 1st and Zeljko Tomic and Aleksandr Pejcic be added to Articles 7 and 10. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. National MP Aleksandra Jankovic submitted an amendment to the bill. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dusan Maric has tabled an amendment to the Bill's proposal and to Article 1. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The second amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 6th amendment. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 136 MPs, for 122. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Of 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 135 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 135 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Of the 135 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 10. Of the 135 MPs, 125 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 135 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 12th amendment. Of the 135 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 135 MPs, one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of the 135 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 135 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Krasic. Of the 135 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 135 MPs, one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Of the 135 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events, in general. Of the 135 People's Messengers, 131 MPs were declared. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at Sports Events. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON DEFINITIONS OF IMPLEMENTATION After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Immobility Transport Act, in principle. Of the 136 MPs, 126 MPs voted for the bill in principle. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that the Legislative Committee is under Article 148(2). The rules of procedure have been incompletely rejected by an amendment submitted to article 1 by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group, and the rejected amendments are not discussed or voted on. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 132 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of the 132 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The third amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Immobility Transport Act, in general. Of the 131 MPs, 125 MPs were declared. The National Assembly adopted the draft law supplementing the Immobility Transport Act. We move on to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Important Law on Organization and Business of Economic Units of Criminal Sanctions Since the National Assembly has conducted a review of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the termination of the law on the organisation and business of economic units of criminal sanctions, in principle. Of the 131 MPs, 126 MPs voted for the bill in principle. I find the bill accepted in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 131 MPs, 123 were declared. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The third amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the termination of the law on the organisation and business of economic units of criminal sanctions in general. Of the 131 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed the draft law on the termination of the Law on the Organisation and Business of Economic Units of Criminal Sanctions. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009. AGO BEFORE we move to a decision on the Amendment Bill and the Supplements of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly adopts the budget by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009, in principle. Of the 131 MPs, 128 were declared. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 130 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted together to the 1st amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group and joint MPs Nenad Popovic and Donka Banovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Igor Becic. Of the 130 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ljiljana Miladanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Gojko Radic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Otto Kishmarton. Of the 130 MPs, one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Mašić. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. An MP, Milet Poscuric, submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Bozidar Delic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment, MEP Marina Ragush submitted. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Škrbic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by National MP Milorad Buha, together by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic, Milutin Jelic and joint MPs Nenad Popovic and Donka Banovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 4th amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, then jointly Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandar Ilic and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Donka Banovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 6th amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you, honourable Members of the people, that he is a member of the 6th. The bill provides for the law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. In the light of the proposal for a law, the Government stated that the particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this law, within the meaning of Article 194(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia shall consist in the need to ensure the smooth functioning of state authorities and compulsory social security organisations. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 130 MPs, 127 voted. The National Assembly has decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. Of the 130 MPs, 127 voted. The National Assembly has declared its adoption of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF ACCOUNTING AND REVISION Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Accounting and Audit Act, in principle. Of the 130 MPs, 128 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 130 MPs, one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by Bojan Mladenovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. I put this amendment of 130 MPs to a vote of 120. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 130 MPs, 110 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Nikolic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 36th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 39th amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Vladan Batic submitted to the 40th amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 41st amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 130 MPs, 125 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you he's a member of 46. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. In light of the bill's proposal, the government stated that the reasons why it is proposed that the law enters into force the next day from the day of its publication stem from the necessity to form and appoint a register of financial reports and to implement the takeover of existing resources from the National Bank of Serbia registry department at the Agency for Economic Resources. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 130 MPs, 127 voted. The National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Accounting and Audit Act as a whole. Of the 130 MPs, 128 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Accounting and Audit Act. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE AGENCY FOR EDUCATION REGISTERS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. Of the 130 MPs, 127 voted in favour. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of 129 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group and together by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 129 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 10th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill in general. Of the 131 MPs, 127 voted yes. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency for Economic Registers. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision on the election of a judge to a three-year term in the courts of general and special jurisdiction Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on the motion for a decision and before moving to a decision, I remind you that the National Assembly, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 paragraph 13) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, chooses judges by the majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I'm putting the motion to vote. Of the 135 MPs, 132 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has adopted a motion for a decision on the election of judges to a three-year term in courts of general and special jurisdiction, with the correction of the Supreme Council of the judiciary since 21 December 2009. We move to the 15th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision on the election of the Deputy Public Prosecutor Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on the motion for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that the National Assembly, according to Article 105 paragraph 13) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, chooses judges by the majority of the votes of all MPs. Before moving to a decision, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on the contested proposal for a decision. Decision on the contested proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, No 119-3812/09. Since the MPs have challenged one candidate from the motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, I remind you that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 181(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the disputed candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates, decides in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the State Council of Prosecutors to elect Milan Stanojevic, director of the Public Business Area, as deputy public prosecutor at the First General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 135 MPs, 128 voted in favour. The National Assembly chose Milan Stanojevic as deputy public prosecutor in the First Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade as the majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of a deputy public prosecutor, without a disputed proposal on which the National Assembly has previously declared itself. Of the 136 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has adopted a motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, in general. Since we have come to terms with the motion for a decision, let me, on your behalf and on your behalf, congratulate the holders of judicial functions in the election and wish them success in their work. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to inform you that today's elected judges and public prosecutors will take an oath before they enter into office, prescribed by law, before the President of the National Assembly. The swearing of judges and public prosecutors will take place at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Wednesday 30 December 2009 at 10.00 hours. The oath will be taken by judges of the basic, senior, appeals, administrative and economic courts in the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the deputy public prosecutors. At 11pm, judges of criminal courts in the Republic of Serbia will take an oath. We move to the 16th point of the agenda: – REQUIREMENT FOR THE END OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT AS THE National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that on the basis of Article 180(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the termination of the office of each judge of the Constitutional Court individually, by a secret vote, unless he decides to make the vote public. I propose that the National Assembly on a request for the Court of Justice's term of office be voted publicly, using an electronic voting system, and I put my proposal to the vote. Of the 137 MPs, 128 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the proposal. Since the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on a request for the end of the Constitutional Court's term of office, using an electronic voting system, I remind you that the National Assembly, according to Article 105, paragraph 11) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, elects judges of the Constitutional Court and decides on their resolution and termination of the mandate by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting on the vote by Mr Stanka Milanovic, the Constitutional Court judge for the termination of the Constitutional Court's office, on 1 January 2010. Of the 136 MPs, 127 voted yes. The National Assembly decided by a majority of the votes of all MPs to suspend the duties of the Constitutional Court judge. We move to the 17th item of the agenda: – I am voting on the motion for a decision to terminate the court's duties, number 118-2984/09, from 6 October 2009, in general. Of the 136 MPs, 128 is in favour. The National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office, number 118-2984/09, since 6 October 2009. We move to the 18th point of the agenda: – I am putting the motion to vote on a decision to suspend the court's office, No 118-3451/09, as of 18 November 2009, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of the 136 MPs, 126 is in favour. The National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office, number 118-3451/09, since 18 November 2009. We move to the 19th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE DISCUSSION OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY After the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the discharge of the public prosecutor, number 118-3449/09, since 18 November 2009. I note that this is about the resolution of Senada Palamara, deputy district attorney in Novi Pazar. Of the 136 MPs, 128 is in favour. The National Assembly adopted a draft decision on the discharge of the public prosecutor. We move to the 20th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision on the termination of the responsibilities of the Public Prosecutor Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on the motion for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 105 paragraph 12) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, elects public prosecutors and decides on the resolution of, or termination of, the term of office of the Public Prosecutor, by the majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision to suspend the public prosecutor's office, number 118-3450/09, since 18 November 2009. I note that it is the termination of the duty of the Process of Protic, the municipal public prosecutor in Novi Sad. Of 136 MPs, 128 for. The National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision on the termination of the public prosecutor's office by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 21st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a MEP MEETING MEETING MEETING OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF COURT Since the National Assembly has conducted a single search, and before we move to a decision, I remind you that the National Assembly has already elected seven members of the High Council of Justice and that the remaining members are elected by the eighth member of the Faculty of Law in the Republic of Serbia, as well as that the joint session of the Faculty of Law in the Republic of Serbia has submitted a proposal for candidates to elect Dr Zoran Tomic as a member of the High Council of Justice. The National Assembly, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 15, decides by a majority of the votes of all MPs on the election of members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I am putting to the vote the motion for a joint session of the Faculty of Law Deans in the Republic of Serbia to elect Dr Zoran Tomic as an election member of the First Chamber of the High Council. Of the 137 MPs, 8. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, for the election member of the High Council of the judiciary, did not elect Dr Zoran Tomic at the joint session of the Faculty of Law in the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 22nd item of the agenda: – The list of candidates for the selection of three members of the Council of the Republic of Republic of Macedonia Since the National Assembly carried out a single search, and before we move to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs decides on the selection of members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. I also remind you that the AP Vojvodina Assembly has proposed two candidates, Goran Karadzic and Velimir Kostadinov, of whom only one is elected for the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, and that the Conference of the University of Serbia has proposed two candidates – Dr Natasu Gospić and Dr Svetozar Stojanovic, of whom only one is elected for the Council of the Republic of Broadcasting Agency, and that traditional churches and religious communities have been proposed by two candidates – His Archdiocese of the Jegarski Porfir (Peric) and Mr Vladan Tatalovic, of whom only one is elected as a member of the Council of the Republic of the Broadcasting Agency. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on a proposal to elect Goran Karadzic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. Of the 158 MPs, 134 voted in favour. I am voting on a proposal to elect Velimir Kostadinov as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. Of the 158 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly for the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, among the candidates proposed by the AP Vojvodina Assembly, has chosen Goran Karadzic. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Natasa Gospić as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. Of 153 MPs, no one for it. I am voting on a proposal to elect Dr Svetozar Stojanovic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. Of 153 MPs, 146 for. The National Assembly was elected by Dr Svetozar Stojanovic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, among the candidates proposed by the Serbian University Conference. I would like to put the motion on vote to elect his Archdiocese Bishop of the Northern Porphyria (Peric) as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. Of the 152 MPs, 144 voted in favour. I am voting on the proposal to elect Mr Vladan Tatalovic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. As a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, the National Assembly, among the candidates who proposed traditional churches and religious communities, chose His Archdiocese of the Episcopal of the Bulgarian Porphyri (Peric). Let me congratulate on your and my behalf members of the RRA Council on the election and wish them a lot of success in their work. We move to the 23rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State OF ISRAEL ON THE UKIDATION OF VIALS FOR THEIR COUNTRIES Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, most of the votes of all national MPs. Since no amendments have been tabled under the draft law, I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Israel on the abolition of visas for their citizens. Of the 128 MPs, all 128 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted the proposal by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 24th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on Social Security Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, most of the votes of all MPs. Since amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, I am putting the bill to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 127 is in favour. The National Assembly passed this bill. We're moving on to a statement on employees' injuries. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100, paragraphs 6 and 10. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, the National Assembly will declare itself without delay in the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. Ambassador Milos Aligrudic, at a session on 21 December 2009, pointed to a breach of Article 104 at 1422. Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of the People to declare whether a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been done. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the seventh session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Dear Members of the public, colleagues and colleagues, allow me to wish the citizens of Serbia a happy New Year 2010 in your name, to congratulate all the next performing holidays, and to thank you for your extraordinary co-operation and to express my confidence that our activities in the coming year will be as successful and even more successful as they have been. I wish you on behalf of the chairman and on behalf of me personally, as well as professional happiness and all that you want for yourself. Also, I invite you to a cocktail at the House of the National Assembly.
