ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34656	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I would like to conclude that there are 127 MPs present at the meeting, and in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I would ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall and there are working conditions. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice and an explanation in accordance with Article 235? Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic. Please, as an authorised representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34657	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, 15 days ago, I asked this speaker a question to the competent state authority to get me a contract on the purchase and purchase of three million doses of vaccines against the new flu. I didn't get the answer until today. So again, I insist that this contract be delivered to me, with all the clauses in which the vaccines are obtained and from which means. So what I said for the first time was about a member of the 2nd contract, which stipulates that by 7 December 2009, 640,000 doses of vaccines for priority groups would be delivered to Serbia, on 19 December we learned from public information that the figure was far less, that it was about 200,000 vaccines. Is it a non-respect of the contract or is it something else? On the other hand, in light of the 2009 budget rebalance, we saw that there were unplanned costs. One of these unplanned costs was the purchase and purchase of vaccines. The government said the vaccines were obtained from the current budget reserve. As far as I know, the current budget reserve is 1.5% of gross national income, which is around 10m euros. How is it possible, then, if a total number of three million vaccines is paid to cover the current budget reserve? That's an additional question I want to get an answer to. The next question is, is everything paid in advance when buying the vaccines or is it the only dose currently in Serbia that has arrived? If the full amount is paid, and no state does not, I ask from what position of the budget is it done? If only what has arrived has been paid, it is far less than 20m euros. I hope this year, and by the end of the current year, there are seven or eight days left, I get the answer I set twenty days ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34658	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like first of all to address this issue to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Defence, regarding the abuse of the property of the Republic of Serbia. This may also be the issue of the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate. Namely, what's this about? It is an office space of 105 square square feet, which has been issued since 2006 to NATO's usage pact on Bircan's street. This best reflects the NATO Pact's character and Serbia's relationship to NATO's pact, that is, towards America and the West. This 105-square-square area of the NATO Pact doesn't pay. If you take that on the Sava wreath, that the average square meter price for business space is about five euros, it turns out that they should give a total of 500 euros per month for this office space. Look, Serbian citizens, what a criminal organization this is. Those who bombed us in 1999, destroyed our traffic, economic, informative infrastructure, are unable to pay 500 euros a month for the space they use. Every year they have billions of euros in budgets they use, and these poor, troubled and small Serbs take up business space without compensation. This shows what kind of relationship Serbia will be in if, God forbid, enters the NATO Pact, as there are already obvious entanglements by some DS members, still not a complete DS. If that happens, Serbia will only serve the interests of NATO's pact, because it will carry out the dirtiest NATO-related tasks. They don't hide it. They have done everything to form new ovaries, not only in Serbia, but in every other country where they are allowed to do so. The Turks were much more honest in that regard. They took our boys, but they trained them there, fed them, clothed them and prepared them for the army. The NATO Pact doesn't do that, it gives programmes, delivers programmes to states that are obliged to train their own soldiers under these programmes, and when the time comes, these soldiers go around the world to war dirty wars for America's account. This is already taking place in Serbia, and we can probably expect that very soon some contingents will end up in Iraq and Afghanistan. Don't be surprised, they're already leaving Serbia. Mercenaries, who have failed to find another job because of all this that is happening in Serbia. They know the military trade well. They taught him well, and now they're going to serve the Americans in Afghanistan. According to some of my information, one unit is already ready. Maybe she's already gone to Afghanistan. I ask the question, also the Ministry of Defence and the BIA -- is it true that one battalion of mercenaries from Serbia went to Afghanistan, and that members of the battalion are practically members of the elite Serb military units? Let me just point out the 63rd paratrooper unit and ask the question how is that possible? How is it possible that, with the knowledge of our country, mercenaries are recruited here and sent to Afghanistan? For whose account, who approves, and does anyone think that we can have consequences? You know that one of the main problems of the 21st century is the problem of fighting terrorism. What do you expect, if the Serb soldiers in Afghanistan are at war, how will it be accepted, and what can we expect when it is known and when they go into some vengeful action?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34660	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Zoran Ostojic, authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34661	Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I have two questions, one for the Ministry of Health, and the other for the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. We all remember, in the last phase of Milosevic's regime, 1999 or 2000, but it was certainly in power, the eclipse of the sun. You remember how then the government scared the people and convinced that it was some sort of monster, that people really didn't go out into the streets and were afraid of something that every one of us, who's a little older, had experienced many times before. Somehow, this vaccination campaign seems to look like it. I ask the health department what they're going to do to explain to people that they need to be vaccinated, otherwise they're going to get sick? It doesn't seem like the government is shaking something over what's going on. I think it's really scandalous that a country that endures candidacy is running a campaign like this against science, progress and technology in the 21st century. So I'm clearly asking the Ministry of Health if there's a plan that will convince people that vaccination is not a monster, it's a flu, a disease that will do a lot of damage to citizens and businesses? I remind you, by the way, that they are ahead of the media campaign owned by a Swiss company called Ringier. For our part, we're part of some kind of conflict there in Switzerland, when a Swiss company runs a campaign against another company. What is not possible in Switzerland is clearly possible in Serbia. Look at the headlines: "Wife fell off" in a newspaper owned by Ringier. Gentlemen, if you wanted to fight Miskovic, you had the chance, first, to conduct a real tender, and secondly, all of you who will not be vaccinated, you could have supported the LDP request a year ago to form a survey board. Don't fight monopoly by people being afraid of vaccination, because maybe there's another lobby that would like to have a million and a half flu-sick in this country, because then other drugs will be used. Let's not fall for such stories, let's not play with the health of the people. A question for the Minister of Economy and Regional Development - does it have an assessment of the damage to the flu? Everyone says this wave that follows in January is much worse than that. What happens if a million and a half people get sick, if 700,000 or 800,000 people don't work all January? Now, by some estimates, 100,000 people aren't coming to work. Are we going to have a growth in social product of 1.5%? Will Mr. Colakovic be retired if everyone gets sick? Maybe someone wants to get sick so they don't work. Is this the behaviour of a country that wants to join the EU? So it's an extremely unserious situation, and we don't see that the government is showing some kind of understanding of it. No campaigns, no explanations. Here in parliament, when we gather MPs, employees and security, there was no vaccine of more than 5%. So does the Ministry of Economy have an estimate of how many people will get sick, how many people won't work, and how much damage will it be in the economy for the state and how much will it affect such a modest and weak planned growth of the social product of 1.5%? If a third of the staff doesn't work for a month, I'm sorry, there's no 1.5% this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34662	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want to use their rights under Article 235? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we continue to work. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milica Radovic, Dragan Šormaz and Konstantin Arsenovic. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Law on the basis of points 1 to 10 of the agenda. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice, invited the members to attend: Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mirko Stefanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Predrag Marić, Assistant Minister of the Interior, Vladana Jović and Branislav Đokić, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Momirka Marinković, Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs, Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, Ivan Zarev, Head of the Ministry of the Interior, Jovan Ćić, Head of the Ministry of Justice, Violeta Marinković, Senior Legal Advisor at the Ministry of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Justice of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Interior, Vladimir Mirnomics, Minister of Justice, Mr. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE LAW ON EXTERNAL SITUATIONS (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the draft of the law by the MPs: Milan Avramović, Vladjan Jeremić Donka Banović, Nikola Lazić, Marina Ragus, Milica Vojić-Marković, Milan Dimitrijevic, Bojan Mladenovic, Radiša Ilic, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Zoran Krasić, Dragan Stevanović, Aleksandar Martinović, Dejan Mirović, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Zoran Babić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Knezarton, Milan Knezenžević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Milajić, Žalić, Boljko Pović, Boštić, Žilić and Žilić. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Since the Committee's report is missing, we will declare this amendment in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Since the Committee's report is missing, we will declare this amendment in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. This amendment was not accepted by the Government. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5, not as it says here in the light of legal and technical correct reasons, but for the reasons set out in Article 1 of this bill. I will remind you that I have written an amendment to write the words "autonomous provinces" in the plural instead of the words "autonomous provinces" in the plural because that is what the first member of this bill says, saying that the jurisdiction of the state authorities of the autonomous provinces of local self-government units... I'm using your technical capability, your vision of what Article 1 should look like. Accordingly, I note that Serbia has two autonomous provinces, so it is necessary to mention them in the crowd, as local self-government units are mentioned. This is not an amendment that should show that a legal-technical thing is right, but that needs to be established and made clear that Serbia has two autonomous provinces and that both should be mentioned in each bill, including in this one. I therefore submitted in Article 5, in principle under g) the words "autonomous provinces" are replaced by the words "autonomous provinces".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34664	Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34665	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 11(1) really provides for one obligation, primarily in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is good that Mr. Todorovic, the secretary of the MUP, is present at this session, because you will understand from this argument that there is no talk of any politics, but exclusively of good intention to implement one constitutional obligation in the right way, even in this draft law on emergency situations. The amendment stipulates that from this 1st position of Article 11, where it states that the Ministry (hereinafter referred to as the Ministry), in the course of its work, propose and implement policies on protection and rescue and implement certain international contracts, laws and other general acts of the National Assembly and Government. The amendment envisions erasing the wording "proposing" for a simple and practical reason, which according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is the government of the Republic of Serbia that proposes and implements politics. It is not at all a questionable fact that the ministry, and therefore in this particular case, the MUP, is able to propose certain draft laws, etc., I say again, given this constitutional obligation, it is clear that a much more regular formulation would be the one which is foreseen by the amendment, that the ministry be in charge of policy implementation. I expect you to accept this amendment, because there is no reason not to accept it based on this argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34666	Anyone else want a word? If not, the MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic together submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34667	Article 11 is within the scope of the head, and the title is "Competence of State Authorities". I accept an absolute explanation of the legislator, but I'd like to point out here that this is one of the few laws that, I say, discusses this matter in detail. It is rare for us when the bill itself, as one of the ministry's obligations, states that a draft bill or draft strategy is being developed. Here we have, in law itself, and that first step, the draft goes to the government, and then the government, if there are any changes in the government's session, then that bill points to the National Assembly. I would say that this should be a rule, that in every law and every step of the proposal this clearly defines itself. There's something else I'd like to point out here. In Article 9, it is the same head, says the National Assembly in the field of protection and rescue adopts a national strategy for protection and rescue in emergency situations. I would also commend this because we do not have a defined obligation of the National Assembly to discuss, discuss and adopt certain strategies. As I recall, we may have discussed two or three strategies in this home. Mostly strategies go to the government, so the government adopts them. For example, one of the most important strategies, such as the poverty reduction strategy, was adopted at the 2003 government session. We didn't discuss this strategy in this home. I consider strategies to be very important documents, and then, based on the strategies, draft laws or national plans are drawn up. I think this is where every strategy needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34668	Anyone else want a word? If not, Marina Ragush's MP submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Marina Ragush wanted this Article 11th item 2 to be added to the words "achieving international co-operation in the NUS area". Point 13 of this article says that national and regional training centres for protection and rescue are being educated in the Republic of Serbia and we add – that international co-operation is being achieved in the area of removal of NUS. The explanation you gave, which is why you do not accept the amendment, states that at point 17. you predict that international co-operation is being achieved. However, what was our intention? Our intention was to in some way commit the government to establishing international co-operation to eliminate unexploded killings. These last days, our government and our administration have been praising the diplomatic initiative and the successes from the white Schengen to the submission of the candidacy, and our intention has been to commit them, those who make up the government, to force through international co-operation the very part of the international community, which has largely sown on Serbs these unexploded means of killing, through various programmes and projects to separate and in its budgets to give it to the Republic of Serbia, in order to adequately eliminate these unexploded funds. Our intention was entirely positive, to force your friends with whose cooperation and initiative you boast to give you money, to remove the unexploded means of murder that, I repeat, over time and decades ago they were mostly sowing in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34670	A minute and 50 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojić-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic. Otherwise, the government has accepted this amendment, but we will vote on it in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34671	Serbia's democratic break has submitted an amendment to Article 11(2) point 14), of course it is the obligations of the MUP. So, they are obliged to prepare and bring technical regulations and means of equipment, protection, rescue, and, if entrusted, develop proposals of Serbian standards for funds and equipment for protection and rescue. We felt that this "if entrusted" should simply not stand this way, because it will surely be entrusted to him and should not leave this contractual possibility "if it is entrusted to him". That's why we thought a better wording was "when he's trusted," which is clearly what he'll be entrusted with. You accepted the amendment and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34672	Anyone else want a word? The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. The government has also accepted this amendment. It will be declared by the Assembly in the day of the vote. Does anyone want a word? National MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34673	And this amendment has been accepted and we thank the Proposer, so we won't use much time, but just to let you know what it is. Here at this point 15) another obligation of the MUP has been defined, and this is an obligation to initiate scientific research in the field of protection and rescue. We just added after the words "initiate" and "financed" because, as in every area, it is particularly important to do scientific research and simply improve the whole area. If the MUP already thinks or orders some research at a certain institute or higher education institution, then we believe that the MUP could also financially help that research because we know what state of science we are in when it comes to funding.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34674	The minutes have been used by the MPs' group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The government has also accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible and that the amendment will be declared by the National Assembly in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The names of the 3rd amendment were submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Bojan Mladenovic in the same text. This amendment was not accepted by the Government. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34675	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to replace the title of chapter 3 above Article 14 of the word "autonomous province" with the words "autonomous provinces". What I received from the government's argument is that the government does not accept the amendment for the reasons that it is legally-technically correct to use the unity, given that the autonomous province is a constitutional category. It is an autonomous province constitutional category, but it is legally and technically correct to use plural, and therefore I see no reason why this amendment is not accepted, or why the third-head title does not have the authority of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. If units of local self-government are listed in the crowd, there is no reason not to cite autonomous provinces in plural. Whenever and wherever the provinces are mentioned, they always have to be spoken in plural because we have two. There's no reason to speak in one, and that's what makes a mistake. None of us have given up any of the provinces, and this law that we are talking about today, about emergency situations, applies to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to the system of protection and rescue of people, material and cultural goods from natural disasters, technical and technological accidents, accidents and disasters, the result of terrorism, war and other major accidents, elementary disasters and other accidents, as stated in Article 1 of the jurisdiction of the state authorities of autonomous provinces, units of local self-government, etc. So you listed in article 1. I don't see why the further text of the law stands in unity. I therefore propose that this amendment be accepted and that in the other members of the law, whenever the provinces are mentioned, the words are in the multitude of "autonomous provinces".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34676	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Radisa Ilic and joint MPs Milica Vojić-Marković and Donka Banović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a folk letter from Milica Vojić-Marković, and the Messenger of Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34677	Guests from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the DSS wants to point out one inconsistencies that it sees in this law, but also to comment on something that we have been noticing for a long time, that in the drafts of the law, it is mostly mentioned that Serbia has an autonomous province, because it is always spoken in one, so I would warn you that before you send us these bill proposals, you will look at what it says in the Constitution. The Constitution says that Serbia has two autonomous provinces and that is why I would ask the legislators of this law, as well as the legislators of future laws, not to humiliate us anymore. If you've decided something else and defined yourself and you've already acted as if you've carried out that action that you're subliminally trying to say, we at the DSS still have two provinces and we'd like you to treat it that way. What's your inconsistency? Let's say, in chapter 3, the title above article 14 says "authonomous province," so, one. The title above article 15 reads "the units of local self-government". As we have more units of local self-government, here you have defined yourself to use the crowd, I would ask you to use the title above article 14. Also "autonomous province". I think it's really this way of planting something that's this government's policy to give up KIM, and it's not right, and we're gonna warn you to always make it right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34678	The word has an MP named Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34679	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I have submitted to Article 14 refers to a subtitle above Article 14 and which should read "autonomous province" instead of "autonomous province". The amendment may correct a random and perhaps intentional mistake, because at first sight an impression is made, according to this title, that Serbia has an autonomous province, and we know well, and also in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 182 states that there are two autonomous provinces in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. Such a solution has often begun to slip through some of the bill's proposals. Here, for example, official state statistics processing data presents central Serbia as data and data from the AP Vojvodina. Kosovo and Metohija, as we can see, is nowhere to be found. This gives the impression that the existence of another Serbian autonomous province is deliberately omitted. A similar proposal was tabled by SRS MPs Milan Avramovic and Bojan Mladenovic on Article 5 and Article 14. The government's reasoning for the refusal of amendments says that in this case it will use the unity legally, given that the autonomous neighbourhood is a constitutional category, but if we look at the subtitle above the next Article 15, we will see that "local self-government units" are written, not "local self-government units". As I recall, the position of local self-government units was also determined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but in that case you obviously did not apply the one as you put it in line for the rejection of the amendments. I believe that the Government, or the Government's authorised representative, should indeed accept this amendment and the amendment to Article 5 submitted by the MPs of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34680	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Vladimir Milentijevic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34681	So, we have suggested that Article 14 paragraph 1 after the word "autonomous province" stands the words "autonomial province". I must remind the representatives of the motionary what the Constitution says. It's the seventh part that carries the territorial order. Article 176 paragraph 2 – Autonomous provinces and units of local self-government shall have legal personality status. So it's not about unity, it's about plural. You know, when we see the only one of that on something nasty, it associates. Serbia has two autonomous provinces, and that is why we propose that there be autonomous provinces, not an autonomous province. Let's not resort to one famous story about crawling politics that we in some way give up one of our autonomous provinces. Adjust this law to what is written in the Constitution, and the Constitution writes plural - autonomous provinces, there is no autonomous province.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34682	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The government has accepted this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. In the day of the vote, the National Assembly will declare itself. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34683	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group, the SNS has submitted 12 amendments to the Emergency Law, six of which the government has accepted, which speaks of the seriousness with which the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group, the SNS, treats every draft law that enters the assembly procedure. However, this also speaks of the lack of a very important bill that we have tried to improve with amendments. This amendment, which you unfortunately did not accept, refers to the obligation of autonomous provinces to provide funding sources for development and construction, but also to maintaining and improving the protection and rescue system. The explanation provided by the Government, in the rejection of the amendments, states that the Government does not accept this amendment for the reason that maintenance and promotion are covered by the concept of development contained in Article 14 paragraph 3. I can accept this answer, but in part, it's that under the concept of development, it can mean improvement, but certainly not maintenance, because one is investment, and the other is the whole idea of investment maintenance. On the concept of maintenance, we primarily thought about maintaining an emergency prevention system, because once built, an anti-float rash has, due to erosion and other influences, an appropriate age of duration. With this amendment, the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group, the SNS, predicted that autonomous provinces have an obligation to provide financial resources to maintain a system of protection and rescue, and therefore I think the amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34684	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34685	In the bill itself, it is defined that units of local self-government establish and plan sources of funding for development and protection tasks. The proposed amendment wants the DSS parliamentary group to explicitly affirm and to be able to co-finance certain projects as one of the desired models. This involves projects of interest that correspond to both the province level and projects at national level. I think you should say that this co-operation should be two-way and that these projects should be possible to initiate or from the local self-government unit itself, but mostly from a higher level. Generally, effective action in emergency situations is a question of both the preparation and training and the material resources, but above all also the issue of solidarity. Very often the human factor is much more important than material, but material resources significantly facilitate these activities. I think the state should be able to really help many poor local self-governments who are unable to carry out projects of this kind themselves. For example, how important co-operation between state authorities with local self-government is to work on the resuscitation of the rink in the village of Jasa Tomic when the government, led by the DSS, helped a large number of families to get a roof over their heads again because those houses had been killed by the slopes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34686	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The assembly will declare itself in voting day. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34687	Article 15 speaks of all rights, duties and obligations that each local self-government has or will have when this bill is adopted and entered into force, in detail and in detail. In total, there are 16 points, i.e. 16 different obligations and duties, when it comes to local self-government. We suggested, the government accepted, erasing the last point of 16. In order not to think that there is now a reduction of duties or obligations, we have only noticed that two times, probably by mistake when typing, are listed two identical obligations, so that it remains point 8), which says that local self-government or local self-government determines qualified legal persons of importance for the protection and rescue of their territory. The same sentence in point 16 shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34688	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The assembly will declare itself in voting day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th amendment was submitted by MPs Dragan Stevanovic and together by the MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic and Nikola Lazic. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The assembly will declare itself in voting day. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34689	Honestly, we expected the government to accept this amendment, given that, we must admit, this is one of the laws that has entered the assembly procedure in the last year and in which this principle of non-binding is almost entirely avoided. This is, I mean, the only member who predicted what was famous – he can, he should try, etc., and experience tells us that very often in the drafts, that is, the proposals appear, because since the government here foresees the principle of accountability and solidarity, I think it was unnecessary to put it in article 19 that higher education institutions and other organisations can inform, etc., not to read. This is good. The adoption of this SRS proposal has certainly improved this member and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34690	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34691	The promoter accepted this amendment, and the colleague explained it well. The amendments are identical, that there is no room for a higher education institution or organisation, which in its research comes up with some scientific knowledge that is of great importance for this area, i.e. to save and protect, that the institution or organisation is obliged to inform the competent authority or the ministry involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34692	The 19th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national emissary Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34693	The respected presidency, respected Serbian citizens, also submitted an amendment to Article 19(1), which reads that higher education institutions and other organisations involved in scientific research can inform the competent service of scientific knowledge of the importance of protection and rescue. As co-workers Stefanovic and Donka Banovic, the SNS' view on the matter is that higher education institutions and other organisations involved in scientific research should be obliged to inform the competent service of knowledge that is important for the protection and rescue, as this prevents the occurrence of an emergency situation, which, if it is not prevented, can cause adverse effects on the lives and health of people, the country's safety and the work of organs and organisations. The language formulation proposed by the legislator was optional and it is good that you accepted at least their amendments, because we believe that if it remained like this, this provision would only remain a dead letter on paper and would not be applicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34694	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The government has also accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The National Assembly will declare its amendment in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34695	The government really had no reason not to accept this amendment. Here's why. What is in the argument cannot be considered valid because we have not even disputed the right of the ministry, or the Minister, that the Government insists that it prescribes closer regulation, but we wanted to make this legal norm binding on him who brings a sublegal act within what time-limit compensation can be provided, a time-limit for compensation provided for in Article 20. I'll remind you of what is foreseen in article 20 of this law. It is predicted that companies and other legal entities, owners and users of telecommunications information systems and links shall make the competent service available and used. Furthermore, users of food supplies, water, medical equipment, medicines, clothing, shoes, construction and other materials, and immovableities, then material and technical means necessary for protection and rescue. This is a very wide range of things and materials, goods, equipment, systems, etc. Look, if the state has already been defined that the law stipulates that we are collectively and individually obliged to make all this available in some unpleasant and awkward situations of the same country, then the state must show solidarity and responsibility and commit itself to pay compensation to all those who have made all this equipment and services available within 60 days of the day of the completion of that natural disaster or any other accident. Therefore, what the Government intends the Minister to prescribe, we did not dispute this, but we wanted to oblige the Government to pay compensation within 60 days to those who made their property, property or goods available to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or to the State. I'll remind you, for years back there have been accidents and, believe me, compensation or compensation to this day has not been paid to those who have either suffered harm, or who have made their property available to the state, in order to overcome unpleasant and unpleasant situations. So this is just another one, I'd say, the unwritten principle of responsibility and solidarity that the government needs, and it has to show for itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34696	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34697	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this government, like many before it, has one bad practice to propose to the National Assembly a law which it says is systematic, to be comprehensive, and then to leave a large number of questions in the Bill's proposal to be spoken of by the Government. In Article 24, we have proposed adding a new Article 3 which reads: “The time limit for the payment of compensation from Article 2 of this Article cannot be longer than 60 days from the date of the termination of the elemental accident or other accident. ” We believe that this is indeed a reasonable time-limit, a pure legal language. So the payment deadline can't be longer than 60 days. When you set a fixed deadline like this, then it is clear that citizens who have the right to compensation for damage will be able to achieve it. It is right to know that it is the deadline that obliges the state authorities to respect that deadline. However, the government has rejected this amendment for the same reason why the amendment to Article 20(5) was rejected, and it is said that the government will bring closer regulation on commitments and compensation levels. The deadline in every law, even in this law, is important, perhaps even the most important element of the law. You can't leave these important elements to the government to regulate them by their sublaws. After all, as Mr. Stevanovic said, and that you have accepted this amendment, it does not mind that the government and when it adopts the sublaws move within this time limit that we have proposed. The government can set a shorter deadline. We said by amendment that the payment deadline could not be longer than 60 days, and the government, for example, could adopt the regulation and say – the damage is paid within 30 days. It is then again in accordance with the law, but it is important that there is some deadline from which it is seen when a person, or citizen who has acquired the right to compensation, can achieve his right. It was also necessary from a nomotechnical aspect and from the aspect of achieving the right of citizens to accept this amendment and to stand in the law, which is perfectly normal, which is logical, that this deadline for paying compensation exists and that it cannot be longer than 60 days. This is how you leave it to the government to regulate this issue with its sublegislative acts, which is not good at all, because whenever a government norms something, it is always further from the eyes of the public than when it comes to the National Assembly. The government can pass some sublaw that is objectively unfavourable for citizens, but that the issue has been regulated in law. Indeed, there was absolutely no valid reason not to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34698	One minute of the MP's time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment, the MPs Donka Banović and Nikla Lazic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34699	This amendment provides for the possibility for civil protection members to have the right to health care, not only in the course of their engagement in the affairs and tasks of civil protection, but also within a year afterwards. The reason for this may be the need for certain health services to be consumed even after the engagement has been completed on the mentioned transactions. Later attitudes in the bill define health insurance modes in injured or injured, as the bill says, 'no guilt', but there are certain situations where the definition can be interpreted differently. Simply to simplify, if someone, for example, had no protection mask, or gas mask, although it was prescribed, because he did not have it at that time, entered a contaminated room to save a life, could this be considered an injury without his own guilt, although in a technical sense this person had to wear a protective mask? In order to avoid the misunderstandings of this guy, I think it would be important to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34700	A group of the 21st People's MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 32nd amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the day of the vote, the National Assembly will declare itself. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 32nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34701	The Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed that Article 32 of Article 2 amend and read as follows: "The decision and declaration of an emergency situation for the territory of an autonomous province is made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and at the proposal of the province headquarters for emergency situations". We think this is more cellular and meaningful and we think that the Serbian government should really make decisions on declaring emergency situations for the whole territory of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34702	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34703	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment of the SNS parliamentary group to Article 35, could not be explained without looking at the special chapter of the Emergency and subtitle of Emergency Management, that is, Article 33, where emergency protection, protection and rescue management are educated as operational and professional bodies. This is stated in Articles 33 and 5), for the territory of the municipality, municipal emergency headquarters which educates the municipality. This article shall specify what needs, i.e. what bodies and bodies constitute headquarters and that the Emergency Staff shall educate, where appropriate, auxiliary expert and operational teams for specific tasks of protection and rescue. In Article 35(2), the following tasks of the municipal authority and, among other things, the appointment of a protection manager and deputy manager in a populated place are further discussed. I'm counting on this amendment to be accepted, given the situation that you've given the explanation that you're going to carry out a legal-technical order, which was our main intention. It means that, from the title or from point 2) of Article 35, what is stated means - the protection manager and the deputy manager in the settlements, given the situation that this relatively and indeed leads to a situation that a number of local self-governments will have to be employed on these issues. It would be unserious, given the draft law and the importance of the emergency law, if it were volunteering places. So it's a very qualified and professional staff, and that would inevitably increase the function and number of employees in the local administration. Given the situation, as I have discussed in principle in the joint debate on this problem, the situation facing local self-government, reduced transfers for 2009 and 2010 and probably some other non-working years unfortunately, and the reduction of the number of employees in local self-government, this member foresees the employment of managers and his assistants, which would automatically lead to problems in the functioning of most local self-government budgets in the Republic of Serbia. In your explanation you state that in the first technical order you will make a correction and given that fact not because of the amendment, whether or not you have accepted it, the SNS Parliament Club has succeeded in the intention to define this concept in the way you said, i.e. to carry out a legal-technical order and we count that the amendment, which has not been accepted, has been incorporated within the legal and technical order.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34704	One minute used by the MP's group. Before we continue the search in detail of the amendments to the draft law, let the MPs know about the resignations of the MPs. The resignations of Lidija Dimitrijevic and Elena Christmas-Talijan were accepted as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of these paragraphs, which found that the resignation was the case of Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the same law, determine the termination of its mandate to these MPs. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Board, finds that the term of office had ceased, before the time to be elected, by the MPs Lidija Dimitrijevic and Elena Bozic-Talian, elected from the Election List "SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj". According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out. We're moving on to the amendment. On article 38 submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The National Assembly will declare its amendment in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The National Assembly will declare its amendment in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 52nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34705	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 52nd define personal, mutual and collective protection. In order to achieve personal, mutual and collective protection, state authorities, autonomous authorities and bodies of local self-government units, companies and other legal entities provide and maintain the necessary means and equipment in the proper state. The position of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group - SNS is that the law provides for a solution that means and equipment must be in the same condition is not precise enough. In order for a special machine, a combination or loader, for example, to be in the right condition means that the correct brake system, that the aggregate, or engine, is working, that the control system is correct, but in exceptional circumstances it is necessary for the means and equipment to be in use, which means that the upgrade on these machines is in the right state, so that it can be used at all. If you do not accept the amendment of our parliamentary group, we will be in a position to allow special machine emergency situations to enter the endangered area, but they will not be able to be used because the upgrade is invalid. The technical correctness of special vehicles is one thing, and the correctness of hydraulics, digging and loading spoons and other upgrades is quite another and should therefore be accepted in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34706	National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34707	This Article 57 refers to evacuation, complete and partial, and the DSS has submitted an amendment to this section in point 4). It all says here who is subject to evacuation, including under 16 years of age and over 65 years of age, men, or 60 years of age. I must warn the legislator that Serbia is a signator of international conventions on the protection of the rights of the child and that in those conventions a child is treated as a person up to the age of 18. That's why we're warning you that he has to stand here -- faces younger than 18 years old, not 16 years old. On the other hand, I think that Serbia, which has a problem with the age of the population, i.e. we have a very small number of young people, should take extra care of its young population, not only when we are fighting for the votes of those young people who will be adult, but also long before and evacuation must in any case be subject to children up to 18 years of age. This is what a serious state does, I hope that Serbia should be.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34708	The 64th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 64(2), you predicted that if an investor did not build a shelter, and this happens in 99% of the cases, he was required to pay a fee of 2% of the total value of the building block, which is paid to the public shelter company. The financial resources thus raised are not negligible at all. The "Forward Serbia"-SNS parliamentary group shows not only concerns about the level, i.e. the amount investors are obliged to single out, but also how concerned we are about where these funds are even ending. Are they used to build new shelters? Are they used to take preventive measures to prevent emergency situations? Are they used to help citizens who have been hit by an elemental accident? The answer to all these questions is, I'm sure, no. In the Public Business "Serbs of Serbia", which is not so exposed to a public enterprise and which, instead of dealing with improving existing and building new forms of human protection, also deals with business. On the site of the public enterprise, it stands, as the only activity, the building of a shelter, i.e. the building of a business and housing space, which the public company then rents. "Serbia's shelters", in addition to this 2% revenue that you envisioned by this law, also have income from the issue of business and housing, as well as from the issue of a number of space which, by their looks, generate special interest in tourists or specific activity such as wineries or works that require an ambience related to underground andergraund spaces. Then what's going to be financed by these 2%? The work of more than 100 employees in Serbia's public firm, whose only obligation is at the end of the month to see how much the situation is on their jury account and to share salaries, which are employees of party staff and party assault parties in power. For all things said, I urge you to accept the amendment of the Serbian Progressive Party in the voting day and reduce the percentage that investors are obliged to set from 2% to 1%.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34710	30 seconds of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic together submitted to the 79th amendment. The amendment was accepted by the government, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. In the day of the vote, the National Assembly will declare itself. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a message from Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34711	We who have submitted this amendment on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia have practically made an intervention within Article 79 that speaks of an accident protection plan, and that is attitude 2, where it says that "the company and the other legal person plan to protect from accidents is updated and tested as necessary, and it is mandatory to do so at least once in a three-year period". We don't think that's often enough. We somehow have a way of prolonging everything, so we can assume that companies and other legal entities and crash protection plans would update it once every three years or test it only once every three years, and that is why we think it should be done more often, and we have suggested that the plan be tested and updated at least once every two years, and we think that this intervention has contributed to the quality of the entire law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34712	Anyone else want a word? (No) People's MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic together submitted to the 80th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34713	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry of the Interior, in Article 80, reads that "the company and the other legal person are obliged to produce and deliver an accident plan to the Ministry". Chapter 3, point 3, reads: “Employment companies and other legal entities already carrying out operations and activities with hazardous substances for existing plants no later than six months from the date of entry into force of this law. ” So, as this applies to those companies and other legal entities that are already performing this activity, we think it is a six-month period and that this period should be shortened to three months, especially as it comes to companies and other legal entities that are already in progress, who are already doing their job and who can practically do their jobs in very little time and with much less power to make this job a plan for protection from accidents to the ministry. So we've suggested that this six-month deadline be reduced to three months.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34714	National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 80th amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the day of the vote, the National Assembly will declare itself. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic jointly submitted to the 81st amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the day of the vote, the National Assembly will declare itself. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic jointly submitted to the 81st amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the day of the vote, the National Assembly will declare itself. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic together submitted to the 100th amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the day of the vote, the National Assembly will declare itself. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the closing statement? Minister Ivica Dacic wants a closing statement? (No) In that case, I conclude a review of the draft emergency laws in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE LAW OF PROTECTION OF THE FIRE (individuals) You have received amendments submitted at the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Božidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otton Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Peljević, Mileta Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković and Dragan Čolić, Radovan Lazović, Donka Banić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Milan Dimitrijevic, Aleksandar Vlahović, Vlajan Ljubjan Ljubjan Dragović, Mirjan Dragović, Slavan Dragović, Dragan Dragić. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. On the basis of Article 148(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected as an incomplete amendment to a member of the first group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, and pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic jointly submitted to the 8th amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the day of the vote, the National Assembly will declare itself. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Milica Vojic-Markovic, a national MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34715	Gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 8, on the principle of prevention. The original, as stated in the draft law, article – prevention and protection against fires is ensured by planning and implementing preventive measures and actions, so as to prevent fires more effectively, and in the event of outbreaks, risks to the health and life of people are reduced to the least possible extent and the fire is limited at the very site of the outbreak. After this, we added “people ” “and the threat of material goods, as well as the threat of the environment. ” We believe that apart from the health and lives of people, which is, of course, a priority, it must also take care of material goods, but also of the environment, and we are glad that the Ministry has heard about the amendment that we have submitted to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34716	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 17th amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the day of the vote, the National Assembly will declare itself. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34717	We are in Article 20, which bears the title of the Plan of Protection against Fires of the Autonomous Province, so in this concrete plan, where we have six points or six obligations, we have proposed to add point 7), which reads: "The professional training and training of employees to protect against fire". We believe that the authorities of the autonomous province in this protection plan must be precise and it must be clearly defined that the obligation and professional training and improvement is. Over time things are forgotten, so short courses are reminders of certain regulations, obligations and so on. We think that it must be a commitment and that a point like this in this article is necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34718	Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34719	This amendment, in practice, binds itself to the previous amendment and Article 22 discusses a plan to protect against the fires of a local self-government unit. As in the previous amendment, we believe that point 7 should be added here, and that the law should state that local self-government authorities have an obligation to organise professional training and training of fire protection personnel. Previously, certain laws were designed to maintain courses, let me say, training staff in all businesses. I don't remember how often it was, but I do know that all institutions, schools, kindergartens, health homes and so on had an obligation to organize this species, again I say, reminders of how institutions, employees and users are protected in the event of a fire.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34720	The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34721	We agreed in that principle debate that a new law on fire protection was really needed, given first and foremost the fact that the current legislation has been older than two decades and we agreed that absolutely one such bill should not have many touching points with politics. It is also an amendment submitted to Article 25. The bill, which has been requested to delete the position 2, was submitted with that intention, as the member mentioned refers to the involvement of the legal person in the conduct of the business, and Article 2, whose erasure is requested, is that the minister prescribes closer conditions for the conduct of the operations referred to in Article 24 of this Act. You could have noticed that there were no amendments to Article 24, because it is quite correct to define everything regarding the organisation of fire protection, fire threats, etc., so we believe that the position in this bill is unnecessary, especially the formulation that makes the conditions nearer really create a possibility for considerable doubt and we believe that it is absolutely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34722	The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34723	Madam President, gentlemen of Parliament, Mr Minister, we have submitted an amendment to Article 26, which is a protection against fires in buildings of special purpose, used by the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. The proposal of Article 26 reads: "Protections against fires in buildings of special purpose, used by the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, are carried out by competent military authorities under conditions prescribed by the defence minister." We insisted on adding the words "and in accordance with the provisions of this law". Why did we insist? Because I don't know that there's another law that applies to fire protection and only to the military. Therefore, this law must be applied in parts concerning both their facilities and the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. It may be that the defence minister prescribes conditions concerning the facilities used by the Serbian Army, but the law that is before us must be respected and in this sense our amendment is written.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34724	The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34725	I have submitted an amendment to replace in Article 26 the "Minister of Defence" with the words "Government of the Republic of Serbia" so that special purpose fire protection operations, used by the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, are carried out by competent military authorities under conditions prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For special purpose facilities, used by the Ministry of Defence and the Army of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary that conditions of performance of fire protection are defined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, given the importance of the mentioned facilities. It is of great importance that immovable things consist of land, fences, underground and underground facilities with accompanying infrastructure, which are used by the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian military for military purposes and other immovable things in the military district itself. Specific measures for the protection of classified data of defence shall also apply to the immovableities of a specific purpose and shall keep a specific record of the character of confidentiality and may only be delivered to a particular circle of authorised persons and by a special procedure, and that is another reason why this amendment should be accepted. Specific purposes, which are also protected from fire, include arms and military equipment, means of transport, aircraft and waterways, rail vehicles, motor vehicles, etc., which are used for official use, equipment and consumables consisting of computer systems, pyrotechnic equipment, means of connections and laboratory equipment. I have a way of using, managing and maintaining, as well as deadlines for their use and keeping, are of exceptional importance. The very protection of buildings of special purpose from fire is important for our country and its security, as well as the security of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Due to all these facts, I believe that the terms of protection should not be prescribed by the defence minister, but because of the great importance of the mentioned facilities, this should be done exclusively by the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34726	National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34727	Article 33 refers to the consent of the Ministry of Project Documentation, in a work relating to the protection against fires for construction, adaptation and reconstruction, and is now stated that all facilities are required by the consent of the Ministry, business facilities, public-purpose facilities, and then we, after these objects of public purpose, have asked to be specified and to include "vertices, preschool institutions, colleges and dormitories", so that the existing point 3 is health institutions, stationers and homes for accommodation of persons with special needs, becomes point 4) and remain completely different. So, we felt, as at the point where we insisted on protecting children up to 18 years of age, because it was about conventions whose signatories and modern trends are in society and in the world, not only in Serbia, we felt that there was a need to take care of the adaptation, reconstruction and construction of pre-school and school facilities, kindergartens, colleges, dormitories and students. I very reluctantly want to remind you of a few situations when it came to objects for children where fires broke out and that it was always about that the documentation was either not done or that it was rather sloppyly done. I therefore believe that in order to protect these children and increase the safety of facilities in which children are staying, the Ministry must give consent to these permits, because it is an obligation for the state to protect all children in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34728	National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. Mr. Lazic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34729	This amendment follows the draft amendment submitted by the DSS parliamentary group with the idea of more precise defining and apostrophe of the need to produce quality and standardised project documentation when it comes to fire protection. The sacral objects, on the one hand, are places of enormous spiritual and cultural importance, and on the other hand are places where a large number of people live, so that there is no particular need to spend words that it is necessary to ensure a satisfactory level of fire protection, whether it is to build new or adapt existing sacral objects. Fire protection systems everywhere in the world are represented in objects of spiritual, cultural, historical importance, because very often there is a danger of fire outbreaks due to persistent installations or negligence. In its response to why she rejected this amendment, the government has stated that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons that churches and religious communities are, in accordance with Article 11. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia separate from the state. I must say that I do not consider that answer adequate, because it seems to me that whoever responded to this amendment did not understand the essence of this article as well. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and no other acts that define the separation of the church from the state. They are not sacral objects of buildings that are neither in heaven nor on earth. When certain objects are built, it is normal that there is a specific relevant documentation, which is precisely defined standards and respectable, in order for these objects to be safe. On the other hand, it seems regrettable to me that some sacral objects of invaluable importance to Serbia have just been killed by fire. Although Hilandar monastery is not in Serbia's territory, it is a true example of how appropriate fire protection would have been. Otherwise, speaking of Hilandar, the question arises -- how much of the current government is taking care of Serbia as a state helping rebuild this sacred place?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34730	National MP Aleksandar Vlahovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Mijaljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34731	I have submitted an amendment to replace the word "periodically" in Article 40, with the words "at least once every three months". The SRS considers it necessary to define a clear time limit for performing the control of installed installations in the facilities. This term "periodic" can be for three months, and it can be for a year, it can be for two, for five years, etc., but it can be. It's got to be precise for a while. It cannot be left to a local man who works in security that he assesses whether it is periodically necessary to do it for two months or five years. We need to improve the law so far, not by completely shutting down certain time periods when it comes to free judgment or free conviction. So far, we have had two months to run control of the plant and to work at least one caller in one sector, that for a year it is mandatory to work once periodically, that even once every five years it works so seriously that the complete system is separated into components to check every cable and every caller whether it works or not. We don't have to be that precise and so much to go into detail, to break everything up into screws and pieces, to the length of the cables, but, let's say, for three months, it would be appropriate to define a certain time period when something has to be done. You know what it's like here in the country of Serbia, when you leave someone with some free confidence when they can do what they can do, someone will say, "I can do it now, and someone will say it -- it's not necessary, we did it a year ago," etc. Still, it's a system that someone needs, not just one man, but dozens and dozens of people, especially in some institutions, buildings, hospitals, sports facilities, sacral objects, etc., to save their heads. If one caller doesn't work or if he's late to report in time, the fire does wonders. I don't have to tell you what fires can do. It's appropriate to determine for a while. I suggested three months. It would be good to adopt.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34732	Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Maric wants to explain his amendment after all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34733	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment regulates the control of fire extinguishers and fire installations, the number of these controls. In the draft law, the government proposed that controls be carried out once a year. On behalf of the SRS, I suggested that these controls be carried out twice. More frequent controls will require greater engagement of the people, and will likely require additional material resources. However, it is better to spend a little more money and less to put out the fires and pay for the damage caused by these fires. More frequent controls are particularly important for two of the following reasons. The first reason is mainly because of the lack of fire, fire extinguishers and fire installations in Serbia, so to speak, people's, in years, are on average 20-30 years old. The second reason is - largely construction works in Serbia are performed by the construction mafia, and there is no need to further explain and convince the public that they do not care enough to set fire installations in a prescribed manner. If controls were more common, this latest, most famous case of fire at the Clinical and Hospital Centre "Dragisa Misovic" in Belgrade would probably not have happened. It's a fundamental change that will improve fire protection. For this reason, it is good that the Government has accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34734	Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Mićo Rogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34735	Mr. Minister, here's to take advantage of the opportunity, the amendment that the SNS has submitted to Article 51, the owner, i.e. the users of the forest or other land, in the event of an increased fire risk in the natural environment, are required to organise a fire watch. Amendment accepted. In Article 49, I am not saying this because of us, I am saying this because of farmers, where in the category of companies, agricultural cooperatives, institutions and other legal persons are classified under special protection measures and farmers. The proposed amendment tried to separate that category, not to throw farmers out of the protection measure, just so we don't define them as legal persons. Look at one thing, it's said that these are the following measures - the organization of constant duty. Can you imagine a period from the beginning of the sowing, harvesting, to the storage period and later storage in the warehouse until the moment of sale or exploitation of sowing crops, or harvest products? It's a long time. An individual farmer is unable to take all these measures. Some other laws oblige him, even part of this law, to measure. With the amendment tabled, we put farmers in a situation to take measures, but not specific measures that are truly rigorous and which the agricultural producer cannot organise, which are constant on-calls, observation services, liaison services and notifications. This was an exclusive intention for the law to really be in office, i.e. farmers not to enter the situation that, despite the low purchase prices of their products, they also had the possibility of organising a type of water or a department in the MUP or the military to carry out these tasks for that reason, and nowhere in the proposed amendment did they leave out the protection measures that the farmer must take regarding the harvest conditions and their storage and harvest.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34736	A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 51st amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 52nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34737	I also used the last time we talked about a joint principled search, related to these 11 points of the agenda and when we talked about the Fire Protection Act, that the situation which unfortunately meets in Serbia in the area of employment i.e. Restricting an ideal working age to a minimum of 30 years and the situation we have and we have all the time, in the past period and this period is really impossible to find suitable, adequate or any job, so I believe that a part of the people who have finished colleges would unfortunately accept the situation to work in these organs. Why, in a situation where you can't, let's say, after you've finished medicine, become a doctor or do a trainee's, volunteer internship and get a job in that profession. Unfortunately, you've seen people finish high school so they can work after their studies, with a good average. It's in another area, finishing high school to perfect the necessary areas of employment. For this reason we tried to make that category of people, possibly interested, given the situation that it is really impossible in Serbia to get a job or a small number of open jobs competitions, except for political, unfortunately, that this age limit for employment or for admission into this service from 30 to 35. You didn't accept that. Indeed, the category in the last 15 years, for example, is now middle-aged people, who have been in the best years of 20 to 35, and this law has been discriminated against, as well as all competitions that both business societies and privates are asking about entry into employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34738	The word has the People's MP Sasa Maksimovic. You want a word after the previous amendment? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34739	Madam President, you're talking faster than I'm pressing the buttons, so for that reason, I haven't been able to get back to you. You have accepted the previous amendment, it is in part about this which is now on the agenda, but I will take advantage of the opportunity why it is good that the government has accepted the previous amendment, which reads that the title above chapter 4 is being changed to the Fire Department in relation to the word "Firehouse", which stood in the bill. What's the problem? The problem is that there has been a technical error in Article 1(1). You did not accept that amendment, he was in connection with this title, however, there were technical problems, you did not respond to that. It also refers to the word "gunfire." If you type on a search engine on the Internet, you will unfortunately get all Croatian and Bosnian sides, which means that if you look in the dictionary, you will not find the word "firekeeping" in Serbian. Unfortunately, we have witnessed that, for a long time, when the laws are made and passed, the language and letters are not given proper attention, the focus is mainly placed on appropriate legal solutions, legal structures to better adapt the laws to the modern needs of life. I'll remind you of the laws of Saint-Sacred, Nomokhanon, Hilandarian and Student-type King Dushan. Why am I saying all this? Of course, they are all written in Cyrillic or Serbian. I think it is unnecessary to use the word "fire" for the reason that in the Federation of BiH, the law on fire is called, and the Tuzlancanton, so it would be good for you, Mr. Minister, to find a way to accept the amendment to Article 1(1) of the SNS MPs, so that we don't have to have fire alarms or anything like that in some subsequent law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34740	Members of the 52nd amendment were submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34741	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment relating to the minister's obligation to transfer it to the ministry, not because I don't believe the minister is capable or unable to bring a special training programme from the area of fire protection, but because it should be done by working groups who have also participated in the drafting of this law. It is true that according to the State Administration Act, the minister brings regulations from the ministry's work, but we all know that these sublegal acts are mainly the work of certain groups of experts in the ministry, which is passed by a sublegal act. From this principled attitude that the SRS has always had, which is that the ministry has more bodies and that the ministry is not only a minister, but all the people who work in the ministry, I have proposed an amendment to replace the word "minister" with the word "ministration". So, for the best part, due to special training in the area of fire protection, type and training programme, scope and conditions of special training, method of laying down and the level of costs of the expert examination, as well as the level of compensation to members of the commission should be prescribed by the working group of the ministry, and the minister to give consent or signature. Since this is a binding act due to the State Administration Act, where it is said that the minister is making regulations from the ministry's work, he says that this Law on State Administration is also wrong and that then the amendment would no longer have any problem in having all the work done by the minister, because otherwise the minister would just sit in the office and write sublaws, he would not have any other obligation, which certainly should not be the case. That's why this amendment should be accepted, and that's why I wrote it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34742	A group of 21 MPs from the “Forward Serbia” group submitted an amendment to Chapter 4. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34743	Mr. Minister, I am not reporting for this accepted amendment to Article 55. You were, you said the other day, a long-time MP, we did 23 agendas Monday at 10 o'clock. They were waiting for us in the parliamentary groups, and it took 1400 hours to prepare a set of 11 points, including these two essential laws. Then there was a technical mistake about printing, that instead of Article 1, the word "fire Department" was replaced by "Fire Service". I would not now enter the same reasoning Mr Maksimovic had previously explained. It is necessary, given that an amendment to the name of this section has been accepted, that only in Article 1 is made either by the law itself and by the functioning of the law or by the amendment of the Committee or by technical correction, where the word "civility" is replaced by "fire departments".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34744	The 6rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34745	Article 63 refers to professional training, and it is about members of fire-saving units who are required to professionally perfect themselves under a programme that, according to the draft law, is adopted by the minister. Given the general position we have expressed, which is that, at least when it comes to such a bill, as much as possible to avoid political interference and in some way the obligation of the minister as an individual to even edit or bring a program according to which the members of the fire-saving unit will be trained professionally, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have foreseen that change to replace the word "minister" with the word "ministration". I think it's actually more celery. Speaking of professional training, I don't know who was all involved in the drafting of this bill, I think that some attitudes and thinking, especially the national society of engineers and risk management technicians, because I'm not sure you're familiar with the fact that we're still the first in the world in the 70s last century to create fire thermodynamics for air-conditioned skyscrapers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34746	We're consulting. The proposer's representative has a thing. In fact, through a legal-technical order this amendment could be accepted. It is simply not technically reasoned and written in a way that the proposing representative can accept it, but if you agree through the legal and technical order, the Government accepts this amendment. Member of the 80th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative, Mr Dacic, want the final word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34747	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I think this whole debate, which has been about laws in principle and laws in particular, has shown that there are a very large number of issues that, when we bring things down to this professional level and when we talk about what is the subject of the law, we can come to a large number of questions about a common position. Undoubtedly, the common position of all is that it is necessary to pass these kinds of legal rules, given that the previous laws governing this area have been passed decades ago, that the social scene in Serbia has changed and there is no more of the former state in which we lived, there are not many of the services that existed at the time, there are no new economic operators as they used to be called. It has simply changed the environment in which the service that is part of it is a fire rescue, and the other part, when we talk about the whole sector, the protection and rescue sector, and the desire is for this law to be defined as an emergency service. 69 amendments to these two laws have been proposed. Let me also tell you about the previous law, but when I took my word, 69 amendments in total. We accepted 24, and this amendment that you spoke of earlier, I think it's only a technical error that occurred when the amendment was written, and I don't see any reason why we shouldn't accept it and not change it. To simply accept this suggestion that you've been talking about, I ask you to find a way for what we're talking about here to come up with a legal text, because in the text of the amendment, it doesn't stand for what is replaced by these words "fire departments". It simply states that the position of Article 1 is changed and said, replaced by the words "Fire Service". It doesn't say what's being replaced. With everything in mind, please, if there is a possibility of some legal-technical editorial or alignment when there is a vote, that all of this is in mind. We accept and agree with that amendment. But simply the Legislative Committee, I think, on which the amendment was made, rejected it as a legal incomplete, to use that term. Today, we handed over 10 new fire trucks to Serbia's MUP fire rescue units. You should know that the average age of the vehicle used by our Emergency Sector is 25 years. Also, if we want, what is the objective of these laws, which is that Serbian citizens feel safer when it comes to these civil emergency situations, because this is absolutely not about any form of armed action, or any threat to the wider security of citizens, it is our common interest to create all technical preconditions, all technological preconditions and, of course, politically through the legislative activity of this assembly and through the normative activity of the MUP later in the adoption of different regulations and sublegal acts that all these services act coordinated, that there is an integrated system of reaction in the event of an emergency situation. The obligation of our ministry will be that in the next six months, until this law enters into force, we adopt as many as 41 regulations, eight of which we have already in some way agreed to the end, and this is a whole set of all those criteria that need to be added together to have a comprehensive system of the prevention sector, i.e. to protect against civilian emergency situations. I want to thank everyone who participated in the debate. I think that you have shown a high level of responsibility to the topic we are talking about and I want to express again regret that the proposals of these laws were within the broader theme, or agenda, which is probably due to the need to complete the work of the Assembly before the New Year's Eve, and we have come to the point that we may have shared the time it took to talk exclusively about these laws. I thank all those who, despite this lack of time to prepare and lack of time to discuss, gave all those remarks that exist. I want to tell you that, as with other laws, I don't think that law-making is about removing one of the obligations that one has, but I think the law is also one living substance whose application should be monitored. This means that we are very open to analyse the constant effects of the application of this law and the way the service and the sector that we have established in these laws are functioning, and we are ready to, in any period, if we see better solutions, we respect each of your remarks and give a new proposal to amend and supplement already adopted laws. No matter what anyone who writes the text of the law, at least you know it well, those who deal with this problem, I'm not a lawyer, I'm a politician, he's jealous of his text and very rarely accepts the amendments and thinks he's always the smartest he's ever done, that legal-technical editorial is the most difficult form of reconciliation because everyone thinks he's right. I don't want to say anything bad about all this, since there are people here, my associates at the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Interior. We wanted to accept more amendments and thus show that we have no reason not to talk openly and to be cooperative in the realization of what our goal is. The realisation and realization of these laws will be in the interest of all citizens. I just hope we don't need to have this sector and emergency services, fire rescue and fire rescue units intervene. Like when it comes to the military and the police, they've been training for years and preparing for wars and conflicts, and most of all they're interested in the conflict never to come. That's right here. I hope and want all of this to be a measure of the preparation of our society and of all the services that exist, the integrated system, the management of emergency situations, and that this remains as a legal solution that we have brought to paper and in practice implemented by the MUP, and that we never need to see it in everyday life, i.e. we have no consequences for the health and lives of people here in Serbia. I want to thank everyone for the remarks. I think it'll be one big step forward, passing these laws. I also want to apologize to those whose objections we could not respect for the essence and purpose of this existing legal text, and I call on everyone to actively participate in the application of this law. I'm sure the citizens of Serbia will benefit most from that. I thank all MPs, all those who participated and were present during all these discussions. I apologize that at the beginning of today's debate I couldn't be present from the very beginning, because we just had this event that I mentioned earlier. That's how time was made, that this morning we handed over 10 new fire trucks to our services, to the Protection and Rescue Sector, or to emergency situations in Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac and Novi Sad. A big step forward because the average vehicle used for our service is 25 years. I hope that, with our support, we will create a powerful sector for emergency situations that will allow Serbian citizens to look to meet and face all possible problems that can arise from everyday life. You know, when there's a fire, it's only then you're thinking about whether the access to the fire-extinguishing building is good or not, do we have enough fire-extinguishing ladders, does the vehicle work, what are the conditions in which the firefighters operate? We can't wait for those situations. Smart people know how to look ahead, and I think it's time for Serbia to start acting like one. I thank you all and invite you to vote in favour of the drafts of these laws, regardless of the position in the ruling structure or among the opposition political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34748	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm finalizing a review of the motion to protect against fires in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Security and Information Agency (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MP Mirko Munjic and the Committee for Justice and Administration under the bill of law. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice and Administration as well as from the Government. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34749	This draft law amending and supplementing the Security and Information Agency Act has only three members. With my amendment, I responded to article 3 of this bill, which says this law has been effective on the eighth day since the day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, which has been applicable since 1 January 2010. In the first part of this Article 3, as can be seen, the legislator well implemented the provision of Article 196, the final stance of the Serbian Constitution, which says the laws take effect on the eighth day of publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, but then wrote that it has been applied since 1 January 2010. Did the promoter now see what he did, that it was actually impossible. Generally, he did not accept my amendment for the reason that the government's argument could have adverse consequences for the security of the Republic of Serbia, since from December 31st until the law enters into force there will be no law establishing the jurisdiction of a certain court to comply with BIA's proposals. I ask the question – what adverse consequences can occur during this period? When will it really be possible to apply what the Government has written in an explanation, which is the court's action on BIA's proposals? What court will act on BIA's proposals from January 1st to 5th of the following year? Do you, gentlemen of the government, know what confusion occurred in Serbia's judicial system in the way that judges were elected, as in the previous three-year re-election period? Do you know that the confusion in the judiciary lasts for months? Do you know that confusion continues? Therefore, there is no court that, in this period from 1 January to 5 January, when the entry into force of this law is envisaged, according to what we have predicted, there will indeed be no confusion and no adverse consequences. Much greater adverse consequences will come under the very criteria that individual judges have been elected and that certain judges and deputy public prosecutors have been proposed in this proposal that we discussed yesterday. I will only say that much greater, for example, the adverse consequences will be that some elected judges or deputies of public prosecutors, and their main reference is that they were council members in one or more terms and that they were members of the boards of directors, as if the deputy head of the committee were elected here, and not the deputy public prosecutor, much greater damage would occur, for example, because no judge of the District Court was elected in Gjilan – Novica Stojljković, who works 27 years of legal affairs, which in the District Court in Negotino had a percentage of compliance of 155 to 165%. He's not re-elected as a judge, and he supports five family members. There will be much greater consequences than in this case.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34750	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Justice and Administration have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, does anyone else want a word that has the right to do so? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and CRITUAL LAW: Petar Jojić, Zoran Krasić, Aleksandar Martinović, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Boris Pelevic, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Čalić, Vjerica Radeta, Elvira Kovatić, Dejan Miljanović, Radanović, Radanović, Radanović, Radović, Radović, Mirožić, Radović, Mirić, Radoić, Radoić, Radoić. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Before we move on to a review of the draft law in particular, I remind you that the Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 148(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure rejected, as incomplete, the amendment to Article 4 which was submitted by the People's MP, Ms Radet. In accordance with Article 148(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The rules of procedure of the rejected amendments cannot be discussed and shall not be voted upon. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34751	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, the draft Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code provides for one intervention in Article 79. It is, in fact, security measures that can be expressed as security measures for perpetrators of criminal acts. Among other things, there are mandatory psychiatric treatment and storage in a health institution, mandatory psychiatric treatment at liberty, mandatory drug treatment, mandatory treatment of alcoholics, ban on making calls, activity and duties, ban on driving a motor vehicle, confiscation of objects, banning foreigners from the country, public publication of judgments. Under the conditions provided for by this law, certain security measures may also be imposed on an unaccountable person who has committed an illegal act in the law provided for as a criminal offence, as prescribed by Article 80. However, this intervention is absolutely unacceptable. Why? With this intervention, adding a new stance, it is primarily limited to certain human rights. The declaration of the rights of a man shall guarantee in Article. 2, 7, 23. and 24. certain rights to all citizens, and this declaration has been ratified by our state. This is about a ban on attending certain sports events. Our Constitution and the law, as well as this declaration and the Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms, guarantees first and foremost that Article 20 – freedom of association, as would be the case with these cases. First of all, the legislator should prescribe certain criminal acts, that these certain criminal acts, as a disposition of the norm, are precisely determined which crimes are at stake, if above all a public gathering, sports events and that I do not list. The ban envisioned is anti-constitutional, it is contrary to the Declaration of Human Rights because basic human rights are being restricted to citizens of the Republic of Serbia so that they can attend public gatherings and public events. Violators or perpetrators of criminal offences may first and foremost be held accountable by the Criminal Code, given the appropriate criminal sanctions if they commit a criminal offence, and in particular, if they commit an offence or if they commit a criminal offence. The sanction and disposition of those sanctions are also prescribed by the exact norms in which cases the ban will take place. I find this absolutely unacceptable and contrary to the provisions of the Constitution, to the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, to the Declaration of Human Rights and Freedoms. These restrict the rights of our citizens to participate in sports events and other public gatherings. This will expand not only to public gatherings related to football matches, basketball or other sports events, this will also spread to public gatherings, choirs, rallys, where they will, in any case, come to certain illegal bans, so they will not be able to achieve the rights that citizens, according to the Constitution, have. Therefore, the SRS is to take appropriate measures against those who violate public order and peace, those who commit crimes. We are not in favour of protecting those who break the law, but we are against it if citizens are firstly limited by certain rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34752	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34753	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the National Assembly, in Article 3 after Article 89, the title is added – Banning the presence of certain sports objections and Article 89b. Among other things, in this new article 89b, paragraph 2, says the following: This measure is carried out in such a way that the perpetrator is obliged to report directly before the start of the time of certain sports events to the official in the area police department, or police station, in the area where the perpetrator of the offence was found and to stay in their rooms during the event of a sporting event. Mrs. Malovic, I really don't understand some things here. So these are changes to the Criminal Code. You say, in the position of 2nd of this new member of 89b - where the perpetrator of the offence was found and that he resides in their rooms, etc. Is this criminal law or criminal law? If it's a criminal law, it can't be treated as a criminal offence, but as a crime. It's a minor problem in what you suggested. A much bigger problem is next. Mrs. Malovic, how is it that the perpetrator of this crime knows if any sports events are being held at all? You're now starting to assume that he needs to know. I ask you, how should he know? So a man must be absolutely informed of what sports events are happening in his environment. The question – how will he be informed about it? What if he's not informed? Let's just say, a man has a good will to actually sign up, but he doesn't know there's a sporting event going on. Perhaps then the court will say – you did not respect the stated security measure, now you will get a much more drastic sanction. It's just that this measure is extremely vague. If you have already prescribed this measure of security, then you have to prescribe which criteria will be handled when the court assesses whether the perpetrator has committed a crime rather than a crime, whether he has done it to this degree of security or not. So, what are the criteria on which the court will be able to draw a conclusion – you knew a sports event was held and you didn't sign up? What sports events are further covered by this security measure? Does it apply to international competitions? Does it apply to national competitions? Does it apply to any purely local competitions? The concept of sports events is widely defined, that this security measure will be difficult to apply or will be applied, but, as Mr Petar Jojic said, it will be applied to the harm of human rights and freedoms. One more thing, Mrs. Malovic, if you follow the media these days, it turns out there are no others in Serbia and there are no bigger problems than cheerleading groups. To be clear, the SRS is absolutely against violence and at sports events, but also in all other areas of social life. We are against violence, and we are being held here from time to time in parliament, in relation to the MPs, in connection with the depriving of the rights of the Members of the People to speak freely about topics that are on the agenda. I have to notice, Mrs. Malovic, something that is seeing a growing number of people in Serbia every day. Don't take this personally because I doubt you were directly involved in it, but those who are your political mentors, party bosses, certainly are. The cheerleading groups didn't bother them on October 5th 2000. They didn't mind cheerleading groups that staged a series of violence scenes in Belgrade. They didn't mind the torches, the firecrackers, the bottles, the knives, the chains, they didn't mind anything. Here, in front of the burned federal assembly at the time, it is certain that Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, among other things, was winded up by a black banner with a dead man's head, and that picture went around the world as a picture of the Petoctobar Revolution in Belgrade. There's also Mr. Vladan Batic, he can surely confirm what I'm talking about. So, on October 5, 2000, the turkeys don't mind black flags with a dead man's head, no cheerleading group, no violence. In 2009, it all bothered them. It's hypocritical, Mrs. Malovic. You can't sometimes use violence to come to power, and when you take over, it's the same violence that bothers you. We were against violence and then, as we are against violence today. But those who are today in charge of the hit against Serbian citizens, under the firm to fight violence at sports events, simply are not consistent, because if they were consistent they would not be actors, they would not be protagonists of the unprecedented violence on the streets of Belgrade, which he unfortunately took away, as you well know their victims, that October 5, 2000. So, then we said that this is not a way to take over power in Serbia and to make any political changes, we say today. But, Mrs. Malovic, I have the impression that there is literally a hot water in a water heater here to fight violence at sports events. It is known to fight violence, or crime in all areas of social life. It's very simple. There's police, there's a court, there's a prosecution. Let the competent authorities do their job the way they do in all democratic and civilized countries of the world. We in the SRS cannot accept the fact that there are no other and bigger problems in Serbia than there are fan groups. That violence, of course, I repeat it once again. But we also condemn the fact that, let's say, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the DRI report will not discuss it until March next year. So, post-festum. It is impossible that there are bigger problems in this country fans and whether someone drank a beer can 100 metres from the stadium, rather than the fact that the DRI has found numerous abuses and financial malfeasances in ministries, i.e. in other state institutions, and that absolutely no one will bear responsibility for it. So, if you want to fight crime consistently, against corruption, against violence, fight, but then start with the head. Start with what's going on in the ministries, what's going on in the administration bodies of the ministries, what's going on in public enterprises, and then when that job is done, then we'll just deal with people who drink beer cans before sports shows, or who might be scandalning something that's not appropriate and not civilized.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34754	A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 3rd amendment. Mr. Zoran Ostojić, advertises the Rules of Procedure, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34755	I'm advertising Article 104, violation of dignity. I noticed a smile on your face, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, while Mr. Martinovic was talking about October 5th, violence, etc. For the citizens, for the citizens. Push tried to execute one who did not want to admit the election results on September 24th, and October 5th was not a coup, but a defence against the coup. And when we talk about violence, then I would like those who now strongly condemn the violence of fan groups to the set of violence that cheerleading groups rule in the arrest, let's say, Sljivancanin, and at that rally of defence accused of genocide, Radovan Karadzic. Bringing all this together with October 5 is really hypocritical. October 5th, which was probably attended by fans, as citizens, was defending citizens from attempts at the coup, because it is a coup when the election results are not recognised. These two things should not be evened out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34756	Mr. Ostojić, me and the group I belong to and the political option that I belong to is very separate from violence and political struggle. I strongly condemn every form of violence. The smile that could be seen on my face was already tied to the comments of those sitting on my left and right and who had no, unfortunately, direct connection to the content that was obviously the subject of your observation. I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure, but if you're not satisfied... Thank you. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 4th amendment. Mr. Alexander Martinovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34757	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really couldn't understand this intervention of Mr. Ostojic, because the SRS, as you well know, was the first to come out with election results for the president of the SRJ. We did not question at all the fact that Vojislav Kostunica won those elections. It is, however, that afterwards there were burning records of the work of the election committees that were here in the Federal Assembly building, where the headquarters of the Federal Election Commission was, that's correct, but it wasn't the SRS. Mr. Ostojić, I must remind you that federal and local elections were held on 24 September 2000. These weren't elections for the Republic Parliament. Then how could you kidnap the RTS, start, start a news car, etc? That's no way for you to prove that anyone won the election. The SRS, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a clear conscience. We've never organized any demolition rally or demolition demonstration. On the contrary, even when we had to do that, we always turned our attention to our members and our sympathisers, that the government changed in the elections without the government changing on the street. Unfortunately, October 5th was indeed a coup, because it was taken over by the purely republican institutions, which were not federal or local. Anyone who knows a little bit of legal theory knows that taking a coup is the right thing to do otherwise can't happen. So you're taking on a right that doesn't belong to you. That's what it was about. That it was a coup, which, after all, was witnessed by foreigners who wrote books about it, who financed it, and who were very well known where and when they were preparing to do what they did on October 5, 2000. As for this smile on Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic's face, I may at least be a little fond of her, as she is of me, so that's why she smiles.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34758	Mr. Ostović, just say the basis of the call? (Zoran Ostojić, from the place: Replica. ) According to my assessment, there were no elements for replication. Mr. Zoran Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34759	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS has filed a few amendments to these amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. In particular, the amendment I am talking about concerns Article 3 concerns the ban on attending certain sports events. As far as this proposal is concerned, we believe that this substance, the sanctions provided for, is not sufficiently worked out. The fact that a prison sentence from 30 days to 3 months is also well planned and that, as such, the form of punishment is elaborated in the Criminal Penal Code. We have recognized the place of this sanction in this very law, that, specifically in Articles 279 and 280, those sanctions are already provided for, and that if you have already defined yourself, that, after the execution of some prison sentence to a participant, the perpetrator is prohibited from attending certain sports events, it is necessary to at least keep records of sports events for which that perpetrator is banned. In addition, it would be necessary for the perpetrator to appear to police administrations, to record it, to control it, to regulate the way in which that obligation would be waived, to determine in all respects the circumstances and conditions under which this sanction should be implemented. This is how it's left quite vaguely. It was left to judges and interpretations depending on the situation to the situation, which, according to the SNS, is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34760	A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 4th amendment. Mr. Veroljub Arsic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34761	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment to Article 4 has been tabled on behalf of the SNS. It's a bill of law. According to Article 4, only one legal and technical editorial of the existing law is carried out. And even if that were the case, I would ask the question – why is it proposed to delete part of the text that reads "or to achieve and retain the impact on the economic or other important state structures"? And even if it were that legal-technical editorial, the reason is that it is regulated by Article 112 of Item 35. However, if so, the proposing also had to take care of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law on Organisation and the jurisdiction of the state authorities to combat organised crime. So, given the insight into these three laws, together with the one that is now changing, we will see that the formulation of the "organised group" in all three laws is different, although all three laws are harmonised in the same session, from the same promoter. However, we have witnessed in our not so distant past, just a few years ago, that various organised criminal groups have had an impact on various state bodies. Even recently it has been confirmed that even cheerleading groups have influence on state authorities, specifically the police. I don't want to take any more time for that. There's another problem. All these laws need to be enforced by judges. I'm just going to get some information, have Mrs. Secretary write it down. For example, according to the Supreme Court's newsletter, the Municipality Court of Pogorevec was third in a number of cases. It is third in the number of confirmed verdicts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and third in the efficiency of the various court proceedings. Madam Minister, it's the famous past of that municipal court. The infamous one is that it is the first court in Serbia to have the least re-elected judges. I do not trust the High Council of the Judiciary because it contains members who have been elected in an illegal manner, members who are in conflict of interest, and only experience, was then called the High Council of Justice, slightly changed terms, say, twice proposed for the President of the Municipal Court in Pozarevc, the old President who, when he came to the head of the municipal court, was between 9th and 12th, and ended up in 111th place at the end of his term. He was twice proposed by the High Council, twice stopped by the Justice and Administration Committee, and now the same judge, who is the worst judge at the Municipality Court in Pogorevec, has been re-elected. Madam Minister, we are concerned, not only in Pogorevec but in all of Serbia, as the re-election took place. You're playing with an extremely serious problem, that in our courts there will be judges who are unprofessional, who are not alike to perform that duty. Don't do any more experiments like this, because the consequences of this one alone will be eliminated for the next 15 years. It's hard when you knock something down again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34762	National MPs Elvira Kovac and Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Radeta, you weren't at the beginning, I've reported that your amendment has been rejected. The Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 148(2). Rules of Procedure, dismissed as an incomplete amendment to Article 4 which you have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34763	I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 requesting that Article 5 be deleted. To remind you, Article 5 is about violence on sports grounds, violence, and damage to property of greater value. You requested that the perpetrator of the work of 1-4th of this member be bound to express the safety of the ban on attending certain sports events. When it comes to sports events and speaking about the ban on attending certain sports events, the first thing to say is that this might be all right, as you predicted, on condition that everything was previously done not to come to this. What does it mean that it's all done before? What about the preventive action on young people, which is necessary for them not to do such things? The next question to be asked is a very important question – Madam Minister, what about the ringleaders who participate in such activities? It is well known that the ringleaders and those who commit these crimes are the ringleaders and who, in addition to doing these crimes, are involved in sporting events, so to participate in sports events that damage property of greater value, are doing other crimes ahead, during and after these sporting events. So, what about them? Is that enough done, are those ringleaders brought in enough, do you know who they are, and did the police do their part of the job when it comes to them? Earlier it was done in youth education related to sports events, related to sports in general, so that education was done both by primary and secondary schools. This included the media, and the Public Service had one broad involvement in all of this. However, all of this today is gone or in very small quantities. Believe that the media with a national frequency also seem to be much more important to the cube, the lottery, the Big Brother and all that nonsense than youth education, especially those who participate in these sports events. Here it's true that money obeys everything, and everything is more important than youth. Arrest these hooligans and let the young ones go to sports courts and cheer for their sports clubs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34764	Mrs. Veronica Radeta has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34765	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, that the government should have accepted the amendment of counterpart Mirko Munjic, and there was a very clear and precise explanation why this should have been done, as should this previous amendment be adopted to Article 4. The strange proposals for the legal texts we receive, as well as this proposal on amendments to the Criminal Code, where Article 112 is about as if they were the ones that would apply this regulation were foolish. The meaning of the term in this law is the subject of Article 112, and then the Government, or lawyers who will apply, judges and prosecutors, says this law, says that the child is considered a person who turned 14, or is considered a minor who has not turned 18, or that money is metal, paper money or money made from some other material, which is based on law in Serbia or in a foreign country or, let's say, that the term – will not be punished, means that there is no criminal act in that case. So, completely unbulful explanations, such as this point of the 35th Law, which says that an organized criminal group is a group of three or more persons who exist for a certain time and act unanimously in order to commit one or more crimes for which the sentence of prison is prescribed for four years or a more severe penalty for the direct or indirect acquisition of financial or other benefits. The bill that you are now erasing states that "or in order to achieve and retain the impact on economic or other important state structures". This is what we asked for to be deleted, i.e. to remain this formulation so that an organized criminal group can also be the one formed for the purpose of achieving and retaining the impact on economic or other important state structures. This is precisely very important and, unfortunately, a very common situation today in Serbia. Besides, the government where you, Mrs. Malovic, were formed by tycoons and this is the organized criminal group. Mr. Dragan Todorovic has already tried several times to get an answer – what about the "consalting" mafia in Serbia? There is no response from any government or government in general. That's exactly what it is so far, at least as one of the terms in the Criminal Code existed, and what you've now erased, not as a material-legal regulation, but only in the interpretation of the expression. We thought this had to be erased. It is truly amazing why an amendment that suggests that one member should be deleted, which is a member of the fourth proposal of your law, is not complete. A short time ago, counterpart Munjic explained the amendment where he suggested that Article 5 be deleted, which was discussed whether the government would accept it or not. It's less important, or it's a government matter. I'm interested in the government's explanation, and I've been looking forward to getting an explanation, so let's see why some amendments aren't being accepted. We got the government's explanation exactly as I assumed when I was talking about why I took my mind off it, when it comes to this bill. The government is very informing us, I really think that the legal public in Serbia, that the Criminal Code is in line with the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in combating organised crime, corruption and other particularly serious crimes. This is what, Mrs. Malovic, we have been repeating to you since you've been Minister – if these have not done so before, do a good job, suggest a codified Criminal Code to the National Assembly. Then you'll leave something positive behind, unlike this so-called. judicial reform that will be a black spot in your career and that will show practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34766	Four minutes and 50 seconds used by the MP's group. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milic, Zoran Ostojic, Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The Members of Parliament, who submitted the amendments to Article 5, also submitted a legal-technical order, i.e. the correction of the amendments, which will be very soon distributed to the Members of the People. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34767	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Malovic, I hope we can do this great work together. The amendment we're talking about is actually an expression of our intention to specify a sanction that we're not questioning by any means the amendment itself. What's this about? Article 344 of the Criminal Code provides for sanctioning violent behaviour at a sports event. We do not believe that the fight against violence can be fought in the stadium, and in some ways it is impossible in all other segments of our public life. It is obvious that violence springs at all levels in society and that it is therefore ineffective to sanction only the violence that is characteristic of the stadium. Why would one form of behavior be sanctioned, and for that absolutely there is a need, in the stadium, and not punished at another public gathering? That's why we wanted to extend that sanctions from the stadium to all other public gatherings where there was otherwise violence characteristic of the stadium itself. Anyone who threatens life in Serbia, property with their violent behavior, must be sanctioned for such a thing. That's what this amendment allows. The basic problem and the misunderstanding between us and the government was the fact that we had provided for another sanction that goes one step further than the sanctions the Government is talking about through amendments to the Criminal Code. The government predicts a ban on attending sports competitions for those who committed violence at sports facilities, at sports events. We wanted to take a step further and to make one such measure for all those who were recorded as bullies. We accept the government's interpretation that this is very complicated, and it is very important for us to pass effective laws, not laws that would allow for different interpretations or be to some extent confusing, although there is a clear will and intention to sanction violence. We therefore propose to correct this amendment, which would practically remain what is most important for us, which is sanctioning every form of violence and at sports events, at stadiums, but also at public gatherings, at political gatherings, at the stands, at the pride parade. This amendment of Article 344 of the Criminal Code would allow the state to effectively fight violence in those situations where violence occurs, regardless of where violence occurs. The amendment is heading towards the government's suggestion that at this point the state is very difficult to prevent the bully from attending sports events because they committed some act of violence not in the stadium, but outside the stadium. It's that change and correction. This is very encouraging, and this is a real message. It will no longer be possible to tolerate violence, and to deal with violence in the stadium. This is the first step in the preventive functioning of the state and the expansion of the front in the fight against violence. It would indeed be irresponsible to ask the state to deal with violence when violence occurs, and to prevent or not to create assumptions for preventive action in this country. We expect this to be just the first step in articulating that strategy we're talking about. We have a National Council on Combating Violence. Now the content of one such attitude is needed, and this is what we consider a first step in defining that content. The next steps are to turn to our family. Our violence comes from family life. Women are victims of violence in Serbia, children are victims of violence in Serbia. I remind you that almost 70% of children in the family are victims of various forms of violence. Violence was founded in school, in the education system. Professors are victims of violence. Children are victims of violence among themselves. Violence in the workplace is very pronounced, disrespect and different forms of discrimination. All of this must be treated together with a comprehensive strategy, legislative reform, but before that with an honest agreement on what has to be done in Serbia. It is very important for us that the government's willingness to extend the Criminal Code for sanctioning not only violence in sports competitions and sports events, but also that violence that was characteristic of other segments of public life, above all for violence followed by political action, the violence that led to the conflict on the streets in Belgrade a year ago, when the police were practically powerless, but also our judiciary in effectively sanctioning such illegal behaviour because there were no legal assumptions about such a thing. Now it will be much easier, given that we will pass an effective and applicable law. We are encouraged by this government initiative and the government's willingness to accept this amendment with a correction that, in the end, is logical because it is really very difficult to disable someone who has previously committed violence to attend a sports competition if he has not previously committed it in the competition or at the sports event itself. This correction is being introduced into our amendment, and the amendment extends the front of the fight against violence from the stadium to every political gathering, every public assembly, gatherings of NGOs, gatherings of endangered communities. In this way, Serbia is creating a final assumption for the development of a democratic society, and that is what is very important. I'm going to read this amendment again because of those who thought they could use the weakness of our system and as a form of warning. "Violent behavior at a sports event or a public gathering. Whoever physically attacks or takes physical action with the participants of a sports event or a public event, commits violence or damages property when arriving or leaving a sports event or a public gathering, enters into sports facilities or throws it on a sports field, among viewers or participants of public gatherings, pyrotechnic means or other explosive, flammable or harmful substances that can cause physical injury, or threaten the health of participants in the sports event and public gathering, unauthorized entry into the sports field or part of the theatre for opposing fans, the challenges of violence, damages the sports object, its equipment, installation, its behaviour or paroles at a sports event or at a public meeting, causes national, racial, religious or other hatred based on some discriminatory basis, resulting in violence or a new sentence of five months. If the act referred to in Article 1 has been carried out by the group, the perpetrator will be punished by a prison of one to eight years. The colleague of the group carrying out the work referred to in Article 1 will be sentenced by a prison of three to 12 years. If the execution of a part of the article 1 has resulted in a disorder in which a person has suffered a serious physical injury or the property of a higher value has been damaged, the perpetrator will be punished by a prison of two to ten years. The official or responsible person, who does not take security measures in order to prevent or prevent riots in the organisation of a sports event or public gathering, thus endangering the life or body of a larger number of people or property of greater value, will be punished by imprisonment from three months to three years and by fines." This amended member of the Criminal Code very clearly opens up the possibility of an effective fight against all forms of violence in every place where there is violence against everyone, regardless of whether it is the leaders of cheerleading groups or the leaders of parliamentary parties and it was very important for us to delete these differences, because we know very well what the causal link between the system of values that someone formulates and those who, within that deformed system of values, are beginning to live in accordance with these inappropriate rules. Once again, great encouragement and this is another major confirmation of the LDP's position that it is still worth working with the government, that it is possible to come to the results of which the entire society will benefit. About some other topics we differ, but, once again, thank you for understanding and with this correction, the Criminal Code will certainly be better, and we will all be able to fight violence effectively.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34768	Six minutes and 40 seconds of time have been used by the president of the parliamentary group. Snezana Malovic, minister of justice, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34769	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament, I thank you all for one constructive debate that is being held today in this honored home, unrelated to whether it is critical tones or whether it concerns the support of these draft laws. We are pleased to accept this corrected amendment. I believe he will contribute to a more comprehensive text. We as the Department of Justice have been focused on violence in sports competitions, but I certainly agree that this area should be expanded, incriminate that monster if it happens at other public gatherings. Unfortunately, in our not so distant history, we've had different phenomena and, as I said, I think it will help to deal with this phenomenon. I agree with you that this is one of the first steps towards this, but I am very encouraged that the National Assembly, which unites the actors of political life, will stand behind this bill, at least for the most part.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34770	I find that the proposing representative has accepted the amendment in the course of the debate. Since the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, this opinion of the Legislative Committee refers to an amendment without legal technical regulation, in any case, the National Assembly will declare in the voting day on the amendment to Article 5, which has been submitted by a group of MPs of the LDP Group. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34771	On behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I will state the reasons and arguments why the current Article 5, paragraph 1, or earlier in the current law of Article 344(1), is unacceptable to us, not sufficiently clear, because in the current text, and in the proposed amendments, interpretation and application in the practice of this text are disabled, so it is necessary to change this by accepting our proposed amendment, because the changes themselves define more clearly and more extensively the criminal act, all the acts of execution and all that happens as a result of the crime. The main remarks are that the initial position is referred to at the beginning of the text, so the one who causes violence, physically assaults or physically deals with the participants of the sports event, commits violence, then at the end of this attitude as a consequence of the work, means we have the work and the consequences of the work, resulting in violence and physical accounting, so that in this proposed context the text and the violence and the physical reckoning appear simultaneously and as an action of execution and as a consequence of the action of execution. I must point out that both violence and physical accounting in this context are synonyms and unnecessary in the intended text. It is stated that as one of the execution shops, entering the field or part of the theatre for opposing fans, there is no mention of unauthorized entry, for example, in other areas of the field, such as official rooms, locker rooms, etc. And in this regard it must be borne in mind that even part of the theatre is not just parts intended for opposing fans or fans. We have the part for privileged fans, we have the part to enter the stands, so the proposed amendment, which I will finally read about because of the citizens who are following this transmission, we have defined it in a completely comprehensive way. As a result of the crime in paragraph 1, only violence and physical abuse are listed with the participants of the sports event. There are no other consequences that may arise and may normally occur during those actions. It is stated that, as a result of violence and physical abuse with non-participating sports events within the meaning of the law, although it is a regular phenomenon that in the riots of arrival and going to the stadium, there is violence, physical accounting, or crime. No injuries to the face and material damage that can occur when coming or going to sports fields, then using pyrotechnic means and when maintaining certain sports events can be interrupted without violence or physical accounting, which is to take action such as insulting participants on a racial basis, then throwing objects on the ground, using certain pyrotechnic means, which, by applying itself, leads to interruptions of certain sports events or to situations that do not begin to be maintained. Then, in the proposed text of amendments, no time has been defined in which the execution of the work as its essential element is possible. The amendment therefore states that this is precisely defined in Article 2(3) during the event of sports events. The law on the prevention of violence and misbehaving in sports events, making it more clear that the application and legal certainty of these provisions need to be harmonised by the introduction of the proposed text. The proposed text, i.e. the amendment to Article 5, which was submitted by the SNS Parliamentary Club, reads: Who, during the maintenance of a sports event or the arrival or departure of participants by violent behaviour, unauthorized entry into a sports facility or parts of an object, entering into a facility or using pyrotechnic means, weapons or other dangerous substances or objects whose entry and use are prohibited, throwing on the ground and theatre of objects and matter, causing racial, religious and national hatred or intolerance, harsh insult to participants, damage to a sports facility or equipment, or otherwise causing danger to the life and body of participants or other persons or property of a larger scale or to a greater extent, and to prevent sports events, will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years and fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34772	Three minutes and 20 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. This was the last amendment to the bill. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) In that case, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Partnership Procedure (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Petar Jojic, Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Jovan Palalić, Miroslav Petkovic, Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta, Aleksandar Martinović, Milorad Buha, Sreto Perić, Mirko Munjic, Momir Marković, Gordana Pop-Lazić and Milovan Radovan, as well as amendments to the Committee on Justice and Administration. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the opinion of the Government and the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34773	On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 and I remain in general with the proposed amendment, because we believe that this amendment should be adopted because everything that has been required has already been prescribed by our litigation procedure. The legal standard must be clearly and precisely defined so that it can be applied easily in practice. That's the basic principle. If something is already prescribed by law, as the proposer states, it is pointless to prescribe something if the law does so and norms. This supplement does not have any essential value, so paraphrasing something that the law has absolutely unacceptable and has no effect on the alleged improvement of the efficiency of the litigation process, as stated in the proposal. In fact, I have consulted with a number of legal and professional public, with a number of lawyers, who are against such interventions in a very short period of time on certain laws. I must say that, among other things, Jovan Besaric, a famous and respected Belgrade lawyer, said this is absolutely pointless and that it is unnecessary to carry out such interventions and to amend the provisions of a certain law, especially the Law on litigation. If the aim of the promoter is to achieve the efficiency of the process, then that efficiency cannot be achieved in this way. I'd just like to point out the length of the litigation in Germany. Statistics for all of Germany are not eloquent enough. On average, 80% of the cases end within eight months, although there is a difference. For example, Stuttgart with the fastest courts has an average of five months, and Hamburg has 11 months. In district courts, three-quarters of the procedure lasts between 11 and 14 months. I respect the applicant's insistence that the litigation be shortened and that it was not possible to exercise certain rights within a reasonable period of time. That's what our practice has shown. Yesterday, I said that we had a case from Nikojevic, besides Uzic, that the damage compensation case lasted 33 years, and we had this case in practice that the lawyer had succeeded with the judge for one day, first of all, to file an appeal, to have the hearing heard by the parties on the same day, to present the proposed evidence, to pass the verdict and to declare the same day as a judicial one. It's possible with bribery and corruption. That is why it is the SRS that bribery and corruption must be rooted out of the judiciary, and therefore we are that the litigation process should also be reduced to a reasonable period of time. We do not know how much this re-election of judges will solve this, but it is certain that, within a certain time, the continuity of the work and the decision-making of the case will not be possible because of the re-organisation that is being done this way and in this way. Therefore, I do not believe that it was necessary to intervene in this regard in relation to Article 4 of the applicable Law on the litigation of proceedings. It stipulates how and when it is necessary to act and how the court and also the litigating parties are easier to resolve the case, solve the problem and ensure that citizens exercise their rights before the court. Surely, the quest to make good laws is a very important moment and important for the rights of our citizens. I have to draw attention, it's interesting that after the breakup of the former SFRY Slovenia kept the entire Law on the litigation process that was going on at the time. In the executive procedure, they took over from the French enforcement procedure certain rights, but there was a conflict between the application of standards, the way they apply in Germany and France as continental law in relation to Anglo-Saxon law which is not applicable in this respect to the customs and case-law applicable to the countries of Europe. So much for this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34774	Three minutes and 40 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34775	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have also pointed out that these changes in procedural laws represent one continuity in the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia to be in the area of procedural law, and when the Code of Criminal Procedure was passed, to the greatest extent possible reduction of the rights which so far had parties in the proceedings, in order to achieve this through the necessary efficiency that was not in solving the case in the judiciary. In the context of such a policy, the Government also amends the Law on Procedural Procedure, which, in the largest number of provisions that are being amended, represents a reduction of party rights. We will discuss this through the following amendments concerning the declaration of extraordinary legal means to determine the individual judge and some other provisions. I have to say that there are a number of provisions that have been problematic in the current law on litigation, which will in some way contribute to, conditionally speaking, reducing the obstruction of parties under the litigation procedure. When it comes to this Article 4, we intervened in a provision relating to it, I will read it in view that in the review of amendments in the text submitted to the National Assembly by the Ministry, a review of these provisions that are being amended, and this intervention by the Government in this proposal of the law concerns that the court determines all the facts of which the decision on foundation depends, not to quote further, and deletes the provision - everything. Indeed, it is not clear what was meant to be done. I guess the point is to establish all the facts. Was the purpose of this exactly to shorten the procedure as soon as possible? I must say, it is contradictory of the provision of article 34, which we consider to be a good member and a good provision, because it is given right to the parties, is given the right to court. The court will ask questions in another appropriate way and make sure that in the course of the debate, explanations are given of everything necessary, as if extremely well-determined evidence by official duty in order to determine the facts relevant to the decision. It's completely contradictory. On the one hand, the court no longer has the obligation to establish all the facts, and on the other hand it is given the right to intervene on official duty to establish all the facts. It is absolutely amazing, and we have asked that this provision, where the court's obligation to determine all the facts on which the basis of which the requirements can be established, be deleted and the court's obligation to determine all the facts remains. It is not necessary to just run to finish as soon as possible, to pass a verdict that will not be based on all the facts, so that such a verdict, where not all the facts have been made, is applied to a material right which will then not give the party the opportunity to declare the audit. This certainly contributes to the full determination of the factual situation, the full application of the law, and the possibility of establishing material and judicial truth through a series of checks. Please accept this amendment, it is indeed and well-intentioned and I think it essentially improves the text of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34776	A minute and 30 seconds of MP time has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34777	Madam Chairman, Madam Ministers, honourable MPs, as regards the proposal proposed in the amendments and amendments to the Law on Procedural Procedure, Article 5 says - if the claim requires the determination of property rights or other property rights to immovable property, the determination of invalidity, the cancellation or termination of the contract for the subject of immovable property, the value of the dispute shall be determined according to the market value of the immovable property or its work. There's only one very question left here. Who needs to determine the value of the dispute? In what way? You have in the process of confiscation and nationalisation that the interested party determines and determines the value of the dispute. The Advocate shall determine the value of the dispute of the municipal building land or the immovableity of one building block or one unit. That's unacceptable. The value of the case shall be determined by the court. In what way? Now the question is whether the subject matter of the dispute should be determined by the tax administration? In some cases, the tax administration may determine the subject matter of the dispute, and in some cases it is exclusively necessary to determine the judge. When a judge receives a lawsuit, he examines it, determines whether everything is stated on the basis of the action, whether it can be handled, and, among other things, whether the case is marked and the value of the dispute. Why does it matter? It is important that the composition of the court is determined, whether the judge will judge an individual or judge a greater one. That's up to it. The best and most accurate is already prescribed by Article 34. Law on litigation. I think that in practice according to the applicable law is quite enough and well prescribed and here these interventions -- the differences made in any case should not exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34778	30 seconds of MP time was used. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34779	Our intervention in Article 6 referred precisely to the determination of the value of the disputes in which the judge judges an individual. The first question is why is it now defined in the euro? We've never had that practice before. It's always been determined in dinars. It was worth three million dinars. The first time the value of the dispute is determined by the individual judge, and then we'll see the special coding of the audit, we introduce the euro. Why do we tie one of these important rights to the euro? The euro is not, as far as I know, the official currency in the Republic of Serbia, it's still a dinar. Is what the government is doing now prejudged, the possibility that there will be some big inflation, so that this provision will not come up, possibly so much that the value of the dinars falls, and that this provision itself is completely pointless and that the judge judges in some disputes where the value is incomparably less? It is simply not absolutely in line with our legal tradition or court practice, that we are now binding the value of the dispute on a currency that is not an official means of payment in the Republic of Serbia. I would like an explanation from the representative, Minister Malovic, to give us an explanation for that. The second thing concerns the very value of the dispute in which the judge judges an individual. It is too much expected that an individual judge even some very complicated disputes are being tried by the judge, thus increasing the value of the dispute. Why? What's the reason for it to be now, as you've stated here, the 50,000-euro value of the case dispute that will be judged by an individual judge, not by the former, say, three million? What difference does it make in these, to say, conditionally, two million, which increases the value of the individual judge's dispute? Do you think these disputes are less complicated, that they can be judged by an individual judge, that there is no need for greater participation? We know what this structure looks like bigger, but it doesn't matter, and those jury judges are being elected and represented by a part of the court system. We didn't get a reason why it's rising by those two million, I'm not going to use another currency that you used, and what he said was to raise it to this amount.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34780	30 seconds of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34781	You, Mrs Malovic, in the light of the proposal for this law, cited the reasons why you had the need to offer the National Assembly of this amendment and the addition of the Law on Prosecution and you said that you were doing so in order to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is absolutely necessary, but you also said that you were harmonising the Law on the litigation procedure with the Family Law. This is really something that's illogical, abnormal. I guess the Legal Procedure Act is a system law, and I guess the other laws that are passed, including the Family Law, need to be aligned with that system law. However, you wrote here that during the following year you are planning and reforming civil-processing law, including this law and the Law on executive procedure, out-of-party procedure, etc. and it seems to us that if you really have this intention that there was no need to change this law in this way, especially because you did not convince us that it was necessary for this law to be in line with these laws on the network of courts, regarding the change of jurisdiction of the basic and higher courts in relation to the so far municipal and county courts. In that sense, the amendment that we asked for to be deleted, and that article 11 actually speaks of Article 61. Basic law. The title above that member says that determining the local jurisdiction is from a directly higher court. It's your formulation. We think it is entirely excessive that this member is being changed, i.e. that the title is being changed above Article 61, because in article 61, you say – if the competent court, as a result of the disfellowshipping or exemption of the judge or for other reasons cannot act, it will be reported directly to the High Court, which will determine that another really competent court of his area is acting in that case. So, in article 61, you haven't changed anything and it doesn't need to change anything, but it also doesn't need to change this title above this article, and you said that you are doing it and you accept the amendment in secret, for the reason that the distinction of the title above this article is because, according to the new law on the regulation of courts, the names of courts in the Republic of Serbia have been changed. This argument really has nothing to do with the substance of this amendment. Yes, the names of courts have been changed, but there are still higher courts than lower courts and there are powers that are regulated for one, the other, third courts. We think it was completely unnecessary for you to change this title and that it would be good for this amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34782	A minute and 20 seconds of MP time have been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34783	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, Mrs Malovic, I have to conclude something that has already been established by many who are dealing with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, which is that some fundamental laws, such as the Law on Prosecution, are changing one dynamic that is unacceptable. You cannot find almost no country in Europe, well-organised, well-developed, democratic, and essential laws for one legal system change with such dynamics as they change in the Republic of Serbia. You said when you explained the proposal of this law that the Justice Ministry is working on making a whole new law on litigation that will comply with European standards. When translated into the language of a common man, then this law does not comply with European standards or is not sufficiently harmonised. Let me remind you, in 2004, when the existing Law on Prosecution was passed, one of your predecessors who served as minister of justice, he claimed quite the opposite – no, the law is good, the law is fully in line with European standards. Now a man has to simply ask himself the question of who's right. As the minister comes, he says – I will propose a law that is in line with European standards, and a year – two or four years before him, some of his predecessors claimed the same. How many of these laws of litigation do we need to pass, to finally comply with European standards? I don't think there's any state in Europe that so often changes the law on litigation, the criminal code, the law on criminal proceedings. Today we will discuss a new law on the draft law on administrative disputes. The law was passed two years ago and you say -- you know, but it was brought back in 2007, you know, it was brought back in 2004. In England, you have regulations that have been in force since the 13th century, and no one can think of changing those regulations. Why? That's why the regulations are being set up. In each European country, before the bill enters the assembly procedure, such a bill as the Law on Administrative Disputes, such as the Criminal Law, which we discussed today, such as the Code of Criminal Procedure, such as the Law on Administrative Disputes, has previously been consulted by people who are expert in the area, from the law professors' order of judges, from the order of prosecutors, from the order of lawyers, and then with such a single project enters into the assembly procedure. With us laws change back-to-back. You're always telling us -- we've consulted experts, it's been a year or two -- you know, there's gaps, there's weak law, it's not in line with European standards, let's change it. The law on litigation, the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, these are laws that directly enter the field of human rights and freedom, you cannot play with it. Every year -- let's change the Criminal Code, let's change the CAP, let's change the Law on Prosecution. It's quite adventurous, without enough preparation, without sufficient insight into what changes to that law will produce. Come on now, we believe you, this law is no good, it's not in line with European standards, you're preparing a new one. I believe you and the SRS trust you. Then come tomorrow or in a year's time, when you pass a new law on litigation, then let's all figure out the deadlines together as long as the law is in that text in which it was voted in the National Assembly to apply. As for this particular amendment, there was really no reason, Mrs. Malovic, not to accept it. What's the point of the amendment? If the party asks that the judge be exempted or to exclude all judges in one court, then why is it not logical to give that party the right to propose which other really competent court should solve this case? The party has only the right, according to our amendment, to propose this. Whether or not her proposal will be accepted depends not on the party, it depends on who solves the proposal. Therefore, the judge's exemption, in particular the full court's exemption, is closely linked to the party's proposal to propose which one is the really competent court which, in her opinion, needs to settle the dispute. I think you should have accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34784	A minute and 20 seconds of MP time have been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond together submitted the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment, submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, pursuant to Article 142(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Justice Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34785	Thank you. I'll be very brief. On behalf of the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34786	I find that the proposing representative has accepted the amendment during the debate, and the National Assembly will declare itself in the voting day. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34787	I have submitted an amendment to Article 31, requesting that Article 31 be deleted. I would just like to remind you that Article 31 states that Article 263 paragraph 3 "possibly" is replaced by the words "possibly or difficult". Madam Minister, I'd like you to have a look at Article 263. The final position of this member says that if the party dies or re-trials of the party are not possible for other reasons, the court will read the record with the statement of the party. You wrote in this article's proposal that it was possible or difficult. Look, there are two controversial words here. The first word is – possible or possible. The second is the new one that's added, and that's-- that's hard. You should finally determine here whether it's more correct to say – possible or possible. If possible, as you suggested, then why didn't you do so in the position of the first member? Look at the position of the 1st member, where he says - the court may decide to hear only one party, if he is convinced that the party, or the person to be heard for the party, are not known external facts, or if the party's hearing is not possible. Why didn't you replace this word with a word in the first place? The next word that is in my opinion is a disputable word. If, during the procedure, the party's hearing is difficult again, what is considered to be difficult under this word? Whether the party may be abroad or a party on the run, inaccessible to state authorities or something thirdly, fourthly, can't really be seen from this provision. You know, if it stays like you suggested, this assumes a terrible opportunity for extensive interpretation and the possibility of abuse. Abuses in the sense that the party will not respond to the call, i.e. it is impossible to find it, etc. There will be a number of reasons to apply this very part of the provision that applies to this concept itself to difficulties. That's why I think this amendment should have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34788	50 seconds of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34789	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first one finding. It is good that we comply with our laws with European standards, not with others, because to comply with some other standards, many of our ministers and high-ranking officials would not be able to take out their ID card and passport, because that requires a fingerprint. Let's say, according to Sharia law, whoever stole one, cut off his hand, many would lose their hands and their legs. Anyway, let's continue on this amendment. I filed an amendment on behalf of the SRS to Article 32, and I ask that article 32 be deleted. The biggest problem is changes and additions that are often in collegiate with the basic law that changes and complements, and thus, the law becomes inapplicable. Often, norms that change much better, norms that are proposed for change, much better than the norms that you propose and then should keep old norms. That's exactly what article 32 is. It refers to Article 266(1) of the basic law. I'll read article 266. It reads - in a call to a hearing where evidence will be held by hearing parties, it will be indicated that a party not attending the hearing may be heard in the absence of another party. The basic principle is for another party to be present in the party's hearing. The absence of a party may be justified. Let's say, disease, traffic, prevention of some urgent business. This feeding flu that now rules Serbia, and I see in the Netherlands, has already been invented by the goats, and then the fish, then the dog, then the kitten, and until we buy through "Yugochemy", of course through Miskovic, all the vaccines they produce, will be able to justify the absence due to the disease. Second, an unwarranted absence is not tolerated in courts today, but there is also a fine. There is a possibility of bringing the party to the hearing, so that the possibility of ensuring the presence of the other party is largely foreseen by the old law. On the other hand, it is unacceptable to hear one side of the procedure without the other being there, for the simple reason that the acting judge is only then in a situation where there are both parties to determine the facts by listening to their statements, determines the real truth and on this basis draws a verdict. A valid verdict, a verdict they won't bring down tomorrow. On the other hand, when you look at one party present, the other party is not, the next day this one, at the next hearing, will use this one, half the hearing or maybe the whole hearing to prove the untrueness of the party's statement that was previously heard. For this reason, I find it unacceptable not to have both parties present at the hearing and therefore to request that Article 32 of the Amendments and Supplements Act be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34790	A minute and 30 seconds of MP time has been used. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34791	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards the proposal for a norm in the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on Procedural Procedure, we consider that Article 33 has been given too much authority to professional associates, i.e. judicial assistants. Namely, the judicial assistant before the final hearing before the court who elects him and sets him up, in no case should, in our opinion, have the powers of the judge. As for the preparation of system laws, I think there were too many requirements for changes and additions over a short period of time. Please, Madam Minister, you have announced that a new law on litigation is being prepared. He's already done. Now the question is, if you've done a new law on litigation, why did it go broadly on changes and additions? I agree that it was necessary to intervene in those provisions of the law on litigation procedure in which compliance with the law on litigation should be carried out, in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with other standards. However, it is not necessary to penetrate the width, as there are 50 members who are being intervened. It could have gone into alignment with the law and alignment with the Constitution. I'm in favour of making a system law, involving, above all, experts and people in practice. First of all, law professors do it, lawyers do it. I must say, Madam Minister, you were certainly in a position to know that in the German judicial system they are, above all, judges, prosecutors and lawyers. I think the lawyer's getting a little engaged in making system laws. I'm telling you, in England, a lawyer is the source of the choice of judges and prosecutors. You heard Professor Alexander Martinovic earlier, who pointed out that he intervened in system laws very often and that changes and additions occur. I have consulted a number of lawyers among whom, again, I must point out, Besarić Jovo, a respected lawyer who, in any case, he and other professional lawyers dealing with this branch of law, can certainly help the ministry to reach a quality system law on litigation. Again, I ask you to bear in mind that you have a lawyership, with your experience and with your expertise, and the Republic of Serbia has 7,000 lawyers, Belgrade has 3,500 lawyers, and you can get a lot of things from a lawyer, which is, above all, logical, consistent with court practice and long-term experience. Our home experiences for our opportunities are the most receptive that they should be applied in the first place. We can buy something from both Anglo-Saxon law and continental law, but only what can possibly be used, but in the predominantly norms should also be used from our custom, from our domestic law and acquired case law which is not to be ignored, as German experts have also told you that Serbia has great experts in the area of law and that they differ greatly from experts and judges and lawyers in other EU countries. For this reason, I appeal again, hire as many lawyers and professional people from law schools as possible, of course both the court and from the instance of the basic court, the Supreme Court of Appeal and the Supreme Cassation, as well as the Prosecutor's Office. In that case, if you have 10-15 good experts who can help you draft a proposal, you will offer this proposal to the legislative body i.e. It is the National Assembly, and it is the National Assembly that will adopt and as a legislator who answers in front of the state and the people, whether the legislator has passed good laws or whether we are just using the law to determine whether we have passed the number of laws. I agree that we need to comply with international law and our laws, but those we have ratified. However, accepting something like a hybrid from another country that will not be possible to apply in our case-law absolutely needs to be avoided. I am for you to experience, Madam Minister, the great support of MPs in the National Assembly, but you will experience this from both the position and the opposition only if you come out with very good proposals that will, above all, be easy to apply in practice and that will be the function of citizens to exercise their rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34792	Five minutes have been used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34793	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have indeed asked myself about this member and what is actually the basic motive of these amendments to the CAP. It has been announced that, as colleagues have said, the adoption of a new law on litigation, and then we enter into some changes that, in some interrelationship between the adoption of that law, which, as I understand it, was announced in the spring, would have to minimise the rights of the parties so far or, in some way, through this Article 33, resolve some issues that have so far been in the jurisdiction and the exclusive right of the judge. For the sake of the public, the possibility is introduced that, in the very important part of the case, in the previous investigation of the case, which concerns that the court can decide at that time on the appeal request, that it is decided that the claim does not fall within the jurisdiction of the court, that the case has been brought untimely, that the same legal case is already pending, etc., that the matter has already been ruled, that the whole work can also be done by the judicial assistants, means very important serious business, great rights and powers that so far had judges, in fact, that one of the proceedings initiated by the party, the judicial assistant himself at this stage of the proceedings already takes the decision that, let's say, the proceedings cannot continue. The question arises - why is this right given to judicial assistants? We know and we talked here when there was a bill on the judicial academy, that it was expected and, well, it's an additional education of a younger man who will become tomorrow's legal guardians, but it's asking whether in this period when that academy didn't even start working, and when we know what status the judicial assistants are according to our laws, they have such a huge and huge right and they actually take it over from the judges. There is no other way to explain this than the fact that by reforming the judiciary, we have reduced the number of judges. We will now have a situation that will have fewer judges to judge and that at the same time we will have a large inflow of cases, because the inflow of cases is constantly increasing from month to month. It's you as minister of justice and how well you know. In that situation where the judge, on the one hand, has an increased inflow of cases, and on the other hand, judges in the other place, above his place of residence, such an important part of the work relating to the previous review of the case, you are now transferring to the judicial assistants. Can you guarantee the parties who file charges and initiate proceedings that there will be no misappropriation of law and will the judges in this situation transfer it to their judicial assistants? This is a serious problem, and I think it might have been more important to wait for a new law on litigation and to fully regulate this or, in the extreme line, not to give this kind of authority, especially given the right to judicial assistants that even in the legal treatment procedure, on a regular and extraordinary basis, they have the same powers in very complex parts of the procedure. I ask you to reconsider this, to accept this amendment and leave it to the judges, regardless of what is now going to have an additional problem, but you have created it by reducing the number of judges, that this stage is also a quality of office procedure, so if some of the provisions relating to the prosecution are met because it is untimely, because there is already a lawsuit in the same legal matter or that it does not belong to the jurisdiction of the judge, it is resolved by the judge, not the judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34794	Two minutes have been used by the MPs' group. National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34795	This is the last amendment that our parliamentary group submitted to the Law on Prosecution. As I said, in the very Law on Prosecution, although we think it was unnecessary to pass it until a new law is passed, as Minister Malovic announced, there are some things we cannot say that we can't say that they can contribute and that it concerns preventing further obstruction in the process, such as, say, the exception of the judge, I think that an extended possibility is possible, and we all who worked in the judiciary know what the possibility of obstructing the procedure is. It is a legitimate right to speed up the litigation process in this way, or what has been introduced, that judges may, by official duty, perform evidence, according to us, it represents one quality. This provision on raising the value of the object of the dispute to declare the audit is absolutely wrong. In fact, double the value of the subject matter increases. It rises to the amount of, as you can see here, 100,000 euros. Now no more revisions can be made to this value of the case dispute. A large number of cases are denied in a litigation procedure to review the judgment by regular means in the courts of senior courts. The question is asked, I would really like to, I believe that Minister Malovic will also give an explanation of all these amendments that we have tabled here – what was the motive for a large number of cases, i.e. what is the motive for making it impossible for a large number of citizens who are initiating litigation proceedings to make it impossible for audit statements and, by way of analysis, to conclude that it is sufficient to remove any possible illegalities in determining the actual situation and in applying material law in the ordinary legal procedure? The way you set things up, you could have said a million euros. Maybe no one would react, instead of 100,000, they could do a million euros. I wouldn't be surprised tomorrow if there were a million euros in the new law, but at least I could hear the arguments. Up to a million euros, anything the value of the case is should not be declared a revision because it is enough to be resolved by the appeals courts. I think citizens must want in litigation when they start, let's say, damage compensation, to know why their verdict can't be reconsidered by an extraordinary legal means, such as a review before a senior court. At the end of the line, an explanation of why we are here now talking about 100,000 euros, and not, say, about the value in dinars. That's also a question we'd like to ask. Most importantly, this high-level rise in the value of the subject matter for the revision is absolutely unacceptable without a serious explanation, because we have reason to believe that the new Law on the Prosecution will bring a million euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34796	A minute and 40 seconds of MP time has been used. The 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger is Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34797	Article 41 of this amendment is linked to Article 422 of the basic law. This Article of Law 422 provides for cases where the case is legally completed, that it may be repeated on a proposal from the party and that Article 422 lists examples or cases where, in fact, this case can be repeated as proposed by the party. We have tried to influence one case here, i.e. to carry out one addition by asking that in Article 41(2) at the end of the position, after the word "proceeding" instead of the point, and to add the words "as regards the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, if it has determined the violation or denial of human or minority rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution or the European Convention on Human and Minority Rights". You have provided in Article 422 – if, by a judicial end of the procedure before a domestic court, the European Court of Human Rights has reached a decision on the same or similar legal relationship against the Republic of Serbia. In an explanation, the Government says that the solution put forward here is more precise, however, we are only looking for this amendment supplement, and we are looking for an addition precisely for precision, by saying that this also applies to European Court of Human Rights decisions in Strasbourg, if it has established an infringement or a denial of a human right or a minority right, as well as if it has established a lack of respect for freedom guaranteed by the Constitution or the European Convention on Human and Minority Rights. So we absolutely specify all these conditions that need to be met, so that it can be sought, or that the party may request that the procedure be repeated. This is exactly what you're looking for, and you're saying in a statement that what the biller gave is actually more accurate. We believe that this amendment should have been adopted, because it does, in a more complete and precise way, regulate this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34798	One minute of the MP's time was used. Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Milorad Buh, submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 55 of the amendment, the Committee on Justice and Administration, on the basis of Article 142(5) of the Rules of Procedure, submitted its submissions to the 55th Amendment. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Justice Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34799	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I accept this amendment from the Committee, since I believe that in a more precise way it will edit this text of the law and that it will not leave any doubt as to what is going on with the audits currently announced before the Supreme Court of Serbia. This amendment introduces the possibility and obligation for these audits to be made and completed by the Supreme Court of Cassation. I'm also going to take advantage of the possibility, since this is the last amendment, to explain to you some of the allegations I've heard here today regarding the Law of Prosecution. As I said in my presentation, when we discussed the law in principle, this is only the first step towards regulating our litigation legislation. As the Ministry of Justice, we intend to propose, during the following year, a comprehensive law partly regulated by the working group, which was primarily done by judges, but we believe that it should be complemented in certain provisions. The purpose of this law should be to change the very way of handling the judicial proceedings so far, that the court no longer determines the principle of material truth, as it has been, but that, as some of my esteemed judicial colleagues would say, the court judges on the basis of the evidence available both sides, the prosecutor and the defendant, to determine what is fair in a specific case. I am deeply convinced that this bill will also contribute to the more efficient conduct of our courts, and when we bring in a completely new one, it will represent a rounded system. I also agree with what I've heard here, and what is once again related to one of my discussions, that the litigation can't be accelerated unless we have one rounded string. Amendment to the Implementing Procedure Act. I'm happy to inform you he's almost ready. It will be held in public debate, since it is a law that should be in public debate for a long time and we should allow different actors of our society to give their opinion on it. Also, we will also prepare the sublaws to follow that law. Then, the Law on the Vanparnical Procedure will also be on the agenda, as will many other laws. As for the value of the dispute, the value of the census with regard to the declaration of the audit, of course, that we can leverage it and consider whether 100,000 euros in the dinar equivalent is a high census or not. I must deny you immediately, Mr. Palalic, that you should have no reasonable doubt that a million euros will be found in the new law. I publicly promise you in front of the citizens of Serbia that there will be no million euros for sure. We did a procedure analysis in Serbia, and we pulled out about what the values of these procedures were, and then together with our colleagues from the judiciary, we made this decision. Why, as you say, was it denied in some procedures to declare an audit? The revision is an emergency legal remedy and since we are a member of the Council of Europe and, of course, we fall under the rules of the Council of Europe, we seek, we want, it is the idea that things end as soon as possible, that we do not have a delay in execution and that we come to justice faster. It's just maybe, in a way, a purpose on one side. On the other hand, we have a brand-new concept of judicial organisation. We have basics and more courts and depending on the censorship of certain cases will be handled in a basic or higher court. Then we have appeals courts, which are now appeal courts, which will be defined exclusively for that, specialized. I believe that it will also contribute, on the one hand, to legal certainty and perhaps in some way remove this objection of yours. In terms of census, what we've shown in euros, I'm going to tell you quite honestly that I've been thinking about whether or not I should show in euros. I'll feel free to say that I've succumbed to the pressure of the judiciary here, and I'm glad I succumbed to it, because I need the judiciary to put pressure on the executive authority. It would be very bad and it wouldn't be good and I would deny myself if it were the opposite. Exactly, colleagues from the judiciary have given that idea, and thinking about whether or not we should do so, I found an analogy that there are dozens of laws currently in legal traffic that determine certain amounts in this way. The same concerns whether a judge should judge an individual or a jury. The jury is public with us, but there's often a jury and decoration. I don't want to offend anyone, simply, often happens not to be helpful to the judge, I'm not talking about specialized councils when we have minors and when it's necessary to have the special knowledge that the law prescribes. As I said, next year, you will find a brand-new amended Law on Prosecution that will not be proposed so quickly. I agree with you that you didn't have enough time to discuss or study all the provisions of this bill and that's why we went with the shortest version possible. I give you that the next year when a new law is proposed will be a few months at a public hearing. I thank you all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34800	Since we have completed a review of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final word or to add to what has already been said? No, I don't. ) In this case, I conclude the review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Before I set a break, I'd like to inform the National Assembly on the basis of article 85 that we will be working today after 1800 hours of searching the point that is on the agenda at that time. Now I'm setting a break and our afternoon work continues at 15 hours and 10 minutes. Thank you. [[After break – 15/15]] We'll continue our work after the break. We move to the 6th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON ADMINISTRATIVES (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs Aleksandar Martinović, together Srdjan Spasojević, Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Đerić, Dejan Mirović, Vlatko Ratković, Sreto Perić, together Jovan Palalić and Miroslav Petković, Mirko Munjic, Zoran Krasić, together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezić, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Pijeljirović, Mileić, Mileta Poskor, Stefan Zović, Goto Žalić and Žaljadić as well as well as well as well as a member of the Committee. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the submission of amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34802	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment has been submitted for, above all, nomotechnical reasons. Therefore, in the normative part of the bill the term - administrative dispute is used almost exclusively in the single, and in the name of this law is the draft law on administrative disputes. We don't think there's any need for that. We think we should use uniform terminology and change the name of the law so that it says - the Law of Administrative Dispute. This would make the name of the law completely compatible with the normative part of this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34803	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34804	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 2 is a problem with several aspects. First, Article 2 states that the court settles the administrative dispute within a reasonable period of time. Reasonable deadline, that's one legal standard. In different situations he can have different meanings. Whenever you have the use of legal standards, then there is the possibility of an arbitral or unequal application of regulations. We said in the principle debate to what extent this notion of a reasonable term can be misused. In fact, a reasonable time-limit is a standard not only for administrative law or judicial proceedings related to administrative dispute but also for classical court proceedings. A typical example of abuse of a reasonable term is a process led in The Hague tribunal against Dr Vojislav Seselj. The Hague tribunal has an obligation to judge a reasonable period. If you follow their practice, the reasonable time limit is here for 7 years. Of course it's not a reasonable deadline. It is an unreasonable deadline and such a way of allegedly sharing justice is a drastic violation of human rights and freedom. In order not to do so even in the administrative dispute, as a specific court procedure, the SRS has proposed a fixed deadline, which is that the administrative dispute has to be terminated within 90 days of the date of submission of the orderly action. Then there's no dilemma whether the deadline is reasonable or unreasonable. The deadline is set by law and must be respected in each individual case. Article 2 further states that the Court resolves the administrative dispute on the basis of the facts set out in the oral and public debate. Such a formulation makes the wrong conclusion that the administrative dispute is always being conducted in such a way that oral public debate is scheduled and maintained. That's just not true. This is in Article 33(2), in which cases the administrative dispute can be concluded without the oral public debate being held. Therefore, there are other mechanisms at the disposal of the court to determine the facts rather than merely the oral public debate. We have proposed a different formulation of Article 2 where it is said - the administrative dispute is decided by the court on the basis of the law on the basis of the facts set out in the course of the proceedings. We believe that this formulation is much better than the one proposed in Article 2 of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34805	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34806	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the NS Parliamentary Group, we have submitted an amendment to Article 2, where the words "in a reasonable time" are replaced by the words "60 days". A colleague, Martinovic, explained very correctly the reason for this. The NS parliamentary group believes the deadline should be even shorter, so 60 days. I don't see why this amendment isn't accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34807	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work on the search in detail, I would like to inform you that part of today's session from the Grand Hall gallery of the National Assembly will be followed by a group of students of the Academy of Future from the territory of AP Kosovo and Metohija, which are now located in the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and organised by the Centre for the Development of Local Environments. In our common name, I welcome our guests, and these are: Petar Miletić, Vladimir Bogicevic, Milan Radojević, Katarina Knezevic, Nenad Radomirović, Aleksandra Stojanović, Janko Petrović, Drenko Todorovic, Bojana Miletić, Budimir Ničić, Snezana Jovanovic, Dejan Mitić, Bojan Milenković, Milivoje Stojanović, Anica Jovanovic, Marija Antic, Sanja Denković, Aleksandar Stojić, Ivana Antic, Živorad Jovanovic, Ivana Ignjatović, Vesna Jovanovic, Milena Radonjevic, Dalibor Jeftic, Jelibor Bontic, Slavisa Vasiljevic, Radojica Tomić, Nenad Stoletović, Goran Staletović, Branislav Nikolić, Sasa Milosavljevic and Dragan Sivanović. Also, part of the session will be accompanied by participants from Branka Sjeto and Branko Jurisic of the Serbian National Council from Croatia from the Great Hall of the House of National Assembly. Welcome. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. [[Applause]] Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34808	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 3 refers to the subject matter of the administrative dispute and in the position of Article 3, it is well said that in the administrative dispute the court decides on the legality of final administrative acts, except for those in which no other judicial protection is provided. If we exclude this obvious slip that it should not be written -- it is not intended, but -- it is envisaged, then this formulation in Article 3, Article 1, can be accepted. What is unacceptable is the formulation in paragraphs 2 and 3. In particular, paragraphs 2 and 3 shall standardise cases where administrative dispute rules apply to certain acts which are individual and which are legal and which are tangling the rights and obligations of natural and legal persons, but which are not administrative acts. It is, in fact, acts that are very close to the administrative act and are individual, and they are legal, and they relate to individual rights and obligations of natural and legal persons, but are not brought in administrative matters, but in other individual legal matters. The legislator decided that practically the same type of act norms in two positions, in position 2 and in paragraph 3. We think there's no need for that. Simply, Article 3. should have, in our opinion, three positions, and that position 2 which covers that kind of individual legal acts which are similar to administrative acts, but are not administrative acts, because they are not adopted in administrative matters, should be read like this - in the administrative dispute, the court shall also decide on the legality of final and individual acts which are resolved on the law of law or on the basis of a law based interest and which do not have the character of an administrative act, provided that, in a particular case, the law does not provide for any other judicial protection, or in the case where the law provides. We insist that the bill enters this part that says it's not about administrative acts. Therefore, to point out explicitly that individual legal acts which do not have the character of the administrative act are at stake. Why do we insist on this? To achieve uniform court practice. So far, our courts that have settled administrative disputes on this type of individual legal acts have had different opinions. In some cases, the courts treated these acts as administrative acts, or treated them as administrative acts, and some other courts did not treat them as administrative acts and did not allow administrative disputes against such acts. What are those acts? For example, election acts on a function. In one case, for example, the Serbian Supreme Court says the act appointed by the municipality's director of a public enterprise is an administrative act and can then be handled by an administrative dispute. In another case, the same court said – no, it is not an administrative act, it is an act that implies setting up a function and no administrative dispute can be conducted against such an act. Otherwise, it's a question that in the legal theory is causing major disputes. Most of the legal theory is at the point that this is not about administrative acts, it's about so-called administrative acts. the political acts and these political acts should apply the rules on administrative dispute, provided that their legality cannot be verified in any other way, but then the law explicitly requires that those are acts to which the rules in the administrative dispute apply, but which do not have the character of the administrative act. Then all the misunderstandings in both legal theory and court practice would be avoided.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34809	Three minutes and 50 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The National Assembly will plead. The minister wants a word, he just needs to get his card. Excuse me. If I gave you the word with the card that's in the unit, it would appear on the screen – Minister Snezana Malovic, as a name, which I don't believe would suit you. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34810	I thought this was a direct transmission. I would take the chance now that two amendments are going to Article 4 and Article 5, which I was very sorry for thinking I couldn't accept, and then I asked to be seen through the Legislative Committee to accept it and they were practically through the Legislative Committee accepted, so I would take the opportunity to say that, so I might shorten the discussion further. As for Article 3, we have the same provision, if I'm not mistaken, in Article 198. The constitution – the legality of the final individual acts, although I do not dispute the argument made by Mr Martinovic. We have decided to accept the amendment that you would now be talking about, to Article 4. It's about the definition of an administrative act. We accepted it through the Legislative Committee, by just exempting two words - public authorities. I hope you're okay with that, too, since we're in Article 31 later. It's just, I think there might be some kind of misunderstanding. Also, your amendment to define the administrative matter in Article 5, with what we consider to be in the spirit of what you said yourself, so it would be too much to say that it is a matter of concreteising the primary disposition of the law or other legal regulation. I think this is the best solution we've ever offered through the Legislative Committee. The de facto is about the solutions that you have proposed, which arise from your earlier discussion. As I have already taken the floor, I would like to say that we have accepted 10 amendments: Mr Dejan Mirovic's amendment to Article 25, Sreta Perić on Article 29, Vlatko Ratkovic on Article 50, to the members of the 45th and 47th National MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Boris Aleksic, as well as to a member of the 75th National MPs headed by Mr Tomislav Nikolic and a member of the 77th National MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Just to try just for the sake of the efficiency of the discussion to say what I just gave the wrong information that the Legislative Committee hadn't solved, but still solved it the way we expected.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34811	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34812	The minister said that some things in Article 4 have been accepted but, the respected chairman, respected Serbian citizens, in Article 4, which the New Serbia parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to delete, states that administrative acts within the meaning of this law are legal acts that the competent authority directly implements under certain laws or obligations of the physical, legal or other rightholder and obligations which are resolved in the administrative procedure, which do not have the capacity of a legal or natural person in the administrative matter. Why did we file for the amendment to be deleted? For the purpose of determining the administrative act, it is necessary to regulate the Law on Administrative Procedure. An explanation of why the amendment was not accepted is a dowry. The government considers this solution offered in the bill itself to be more comprehensive. I think this amendment should have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34813	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34814	I have to tell you right away that was my attitude when the task force was working, but their opinion prevailed. I don't think there's a burn, if we've given a good definition, if you agree with this definition given by the Legislative Committee, there's no harm in staying, but I totally agree with you that his place, first of all, would be in the Administrative Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34815	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34816	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 4 which gives the definition of an administrative act. The concept of an administrative act is one of the fundamental legal concepts. It is also important for administrative practice and for judicial practice, and it is also important for legal theory. Mr. Minister, since there is no other regulation that regulates this matter, students at all law schools in Serbia will learn the concept of an administrative act from your bill, or from the law when it is passed. The government, as I understand it, did not accept our formulation, or our definition of administrative act. Here is the definition of the law, and there are these young colleagues, so let them hear how the Government thinks it is necessary to define the concept of an administrative act – an administrative act within the meaning of this law is a legal individual act, which, by direct application of the rules, decides on a specific right or obligation of a natural, legal or other holder of the rights and obligations which are resolved in the administrative procedure, which does not have the capacity of a legal or natural person in the administrative matter. So very massive, and at the same time very vague and inaccurate definition. Our definition is true and on the other hand it is much simpler and easier to remember. We had in mind first of all that this definition would be much easier for students. Therefore, our definition is – an administrative act, within the meaning of this law, is an individual legal act whereby the competent authority of the public authority, by direct application of the rules, resolves certain rights or obligations of a natural or legal person, i.e. the other party in the administrative matter. We think that this definition is far more acceptable than yours, which I doubt, Mr. Minister, although I appreciate you as a lawyer, that you can memorize it by heart without looking at the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34817	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34818	I told you earlier that I decided to accept your definition, not the professor who gave the previous definition. You can be proud that your definition with one little change has been practically accepted. It's the public authorities. I said already that these public authorities, now my opinion could not stand in this definition, we have a later article 31, and I explained that to you earlier. So I think you're satisfied now because your definition, I'm sure I can do it by heart if I read it twice. I admit, I was unable to repeat this first one, so I asked for a way to accept yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34819	Right to replicas, MP Srdjan Spasojevic, then MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34820	I don't want to make a classic replica because the minister praised practically the New Serbia amendment we submitted, but I would like to say something else. Since the minister fully agrees with our submitted amendment, I think the minister is the last and I think the minister should accept this amendment, because who are the people who convinced the minister that it is not, if he thinks it is this way. If it's somewhere on the border, then you ministers can always break and accept the amendment because I'm sure you feel the same way I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34821	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34822	Mr. Minister, in the amendment, we insisted that the formulation of "the competent authority of the public authority" remain. Just in order to correct one, here, forgive me for a bit harshly, one nonsense contained in this bill, which is that, under the competent authority that adopts the administrative act, individuals are also considered. That, Mr. Minister, is not possible anywhere. Thus, it is not possible in any civilised and legal state in the world that individuals, therefore, have to be treated as competent authorities. It is simply not usual, it is, after all, the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and our legal system. The Constitution says something else. That formulation isn't exactly the happiest, either, but it doesn't say like this. It says that certain public authorities can be entrusted to a particular circle of subjects, including individuals, but it does not say that the competent authorities are considered individuals. It's simply one contradiction, and we are precisely in this formulation, that it is the competent authority of the public authority, we want to point out that an individual cannot possibly be the competent authority of the public authority. If you think it can, you believe that Serbia will be the only country in the world that has one such provision in its legal system and we will be precedentd. I think we should be precedentd in something other than a positive one, not by solutions like this that really don't have a pandan in any democratic and civilized legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34823	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34824	No matter what the minister is supposed to be in the last situation when respected professors and judges participated in the task force, who have applied until now, and tomorrow will apply laws concerning this matter, I do not want to use what is the Minister's last and remain in what they have decided most of them. As for what you said, Mr. Martinovic, you yourself mentioned article 137. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in principle, disagreed with you definitely on this. There's a question of tomorrow's action. We're going to have acts, we're going to see what the Notary Act looks like, not to prejudge, realistically, I don't know, I didn't see it either, but the question of their acts is, they're likely to have certain responsibilities when it comes to immovableness, immovable traffic, etc. The question of their actions is, let's say they refuse to carry out an overture of a contract and something like that. I didn't get into the constitutional regulation. I think our provision in law is completely accurate and I don't think we're going to be the only country in the world, I don't know where you got it from if we're the only country in the world, it would require some analysis right now, I don't know if you have that analysis, but I just think this solution is definitely coming from the Constitution. How individuals will be the bearers of public authority and whether they act as public authorities, they seem to be indisputable to me with the authority of public authorities. Therefore, how this will happen in the future in accordance with our constitutional act, I do not know, but I am sure that the people who put this on, with this reason that they previously referred to Article 137. The Constitution, which mentions individuals as holders of public authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34825	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34826	Mr. Minister, just one brief remark. Since you have suggested that individuals may be and may be considered competent authorities, I think it would be correct for you to tell us in which European or non-European country there is the possibility that an individual may be treated in the same way as a state body, as an autonomous province or as a unit body of local self-government. It's simple, Mr. Minister, you know, that's two concepts that are completely opposite to each other. The organ is one thing, and the individual is something else entirely. Now an objective question can be asked - in which situations will natural persons exercise state authority, to exercise power in the name of the state, more specifically, to exercise administrative authority, to bring administrative acts? Believe me, I can't imagine a situation like this. Now you're trying to improvise a little bit, to say -- here, we're going to pass a law on public records, so maybe that public notebook... Excuse me, from the point of view of the existing laws, something like this is unacceptable. Are you going to pass that law or not, it's going to show time, but now you can objectively ask yourself -- are public notebooks going to exercise administrative authority in the first place? You know, when you verify one contract, it's not an exercise of administrative authority, it's not management. So, I believe that, Mr. Minister, so far, there is no legal basis for individuals to be placed in the same line with state authorities, territorial autonomy authorities and local self-government bodies. I can tell you, as far as legal theory is concerned, the legal theory is unanimously in the view that an individual cannot be subject to public authority, or be treated in the same way as a competent state body. The Constitution states that individuals can be entrusted with public authority, but it does not say that an individual in this case is treated as the competent authority of public authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34827	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34828	I think we've made it very clear that this is about treating him in terms of the provisions of this law. We didn't get into whether he was an organ. In the sense of this law, we treat him as an individual with certain public powers. Now, if I'm not mistaken, it's in progress, I think it's here on the agenda of the law relating to the overture of the contract. What kind of act will the notary refuse over the contract? I guess a solution. Is this the act of a person entrusted with public authority? If we didn't have a notary tomorrow, it wouldn't be an act by the public authority, or a municipal court that performs an overa. There is no doubt that individuals in our country can be the bearers of public authority, as can businesses, institutions and who are entrusted with public authority by law. From that aspect, I think it was important in this law to mention it this way and to round up that whole system. Do you perhaps not like it now, does it make you doubt that we may treat an individual as an organ? I think he's here first of all in terms of the authority he has. So, he's an perpetrator of public authority, he has certain rights and obligations to that basis, and in that sense the act he brings may be... I'll help you if you're looking for a Constitution, Article 137. We're staying on this. I'm not going to open this discussion any further. We'll go in, I'm afraid, too wide.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34829	The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34830	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have the impression, Mr. Minister, that you're mixing two types of acts. You stated in Article 3 well the situations in which individual legal acts are adopted which are similar to administrative acts, but are not administrative acts. That your solution to your public notary, or notary, will rather be that it is an individual legal act that is not an administrative act. So there's no need to treat an individual as a public authority entity. I'm telling you, nowhere in the world, at least as far as I know, there is no such case. So a natural person can never exercise power in the name of the state, any segment of government, or administrative authority. But you're going from one wrong premise -- that every single legal act that isn't a court act, that it's an administrative act, and it's not. This notary solution, or a public notary, if this law is ever passed, will not be an administrative act. It will be an individual act and it will be a legal act, but there will be no administrative act, because it is not brought about on administrative matter. That's the point. But then there's no need, Mr. Minister, for you to treat an individual as you treat your ministry, as is the body of an autonomous province or the organs of some local self-government. I will not further elaborate this problem, but I am telling you that Serbia will, in my opinion, be the only country in the world in which individuals will identify themselves, i.e. have the same treatment as state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34831	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, tabled an amendment to Article 4. Does anyone want a word? Does the motion for an act accept the amendment of the Committee? If so, a stenogram works, I ask the Minister to officially say that he accepts the act on behalf of the motionary. Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34832	We accept the amendment of the Committee on Justice and Management to Article 4 and beyond, to Article 5, if they are one by one, I shall say immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34833	I find that the amendment of the Committee on Justice and Administration has been accepted by the promoter during the debate on the particulars of the search. Of course, the Assembly will declare itself on this amendment in the voting day. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34834	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 5. The draft law provides for the definition of administrative matters. Otherwise, the notion of administrative matters is primarily theoretical and besides the existing Law on Administrative Disputes, which was passed since 1996, just some, as far as I know again, some old Hungarian laws use the term of administrative matters. Otherwise, the notion of administrative matter is more or less, almost exclusively theoretical character. But you have accepted the practice of the existing law, that the definition of administrative matters is legally given. I welcome that, but I cannot agree with you that the definition you've given is good. In Article 5, the administrative matter is defined in the following way: The administrative matter within the meaning of this law is an individual indisputable situation of public interest in which the need to regulate the authoritative law in accordance with the law is directly derived from the law. Again, this definition, Mr. Minister, is missing, because it contains contradictory terms. You say that the administrative matter is an individual situation, and then you say, a little later, that she needs authoritative legal regulation. As soon as you're doing something legal, it means you're normal. Then it's not an individual situation, it's a general situation. That is why we have suggested that, instead of this, "legal offices" write "legal decrees". Then the definition is quite clear. Then all concepts are coherent and mutually consistent. That's not good in your legal definition. As soon as you're working something out, it means you're normal. It means, then, that it's a general situation, not an individual situation. So it just seems to me that those who wrote the bill didn't care enough about the logical alignment of the concepts used.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34835	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34836	Yeah, that's obviously true, and that's why I asked the Legislative Committee to give the amendment. It is not about editing, we have already written "determinations", as you have in your amendment. We didn't accept your amendment because of this sequel that, as you said well, someone needs to repeat, to learn. I think your follow-up would be difficult to repeat and learn. I think you'd have to burden the text needlessly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34837	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, tabled an amendment to Article 5. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Milan Markovic, on behalf of the promoter, accepted the amendment. The National Assembly will declare in the voting day, as well as on the amendment to Article 4. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34838	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, and Article 6 is a problem. We've talked about this for a while. Article 6 shall specify the competent authority which adopts an administrative act. It is said that state authorities, autonomous authorities and units of local self-government, companies, public and other enterprises, institutions, organisations and individuals, as well as special authorities, when they handle public authorities in administrative matters. What's the problem here? The problem is that companies are first apostrophe and then public enterprises. In practice, it's the other way around. Public authorities, including powers to adopt administrative acts, are primarily given to public enterprises, or public institutions, and very rarely to companies. What are companies? These are companies owned by private equity. The state has very rarely the right to exercise authority to trust someone who takes care of their own private interests. There may sometimes be an opportunity for the state to entrust public authorities and companies, but these are very rare exceptions. Then, in a purely nomotechnical sense of that word, it should first stand – public and other enterprises and possibly, other organisations that certainly include companies. But giving priority to companies with regard to the adoption of administrative acts in relation to public enterprises is simply not right. Of course, it is not right for individuals to be considered competent authorities. That's what we've already talked about and there's no need to repeat ourselves. Serbia will be the only country in the world in which individuals will be treated in the same way as the competent authorities. I must admit that I do not understand what article 6 means – special authorities? I know what state authorities are, what are autonomous province bodies, local self-government units, what companies, public enterprises, institutions, etc., but what are special bodies like some special institution in relation to state authorities, believe me, I haven't been able to understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34839	Since the time of the parliamentary group, 2.10 minutes have been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34840	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister said he accepted eight or ten amendments. but eight of the MPs and two of them through certain assembly committees. He's got 26 left to accept, and then this law might make some sense. You'd look like one legal act that could be applied, but since it's not, I don't know what it's gonna look like. Now in the best way and in the best case, you can see what the SRS is saying, but not yesterday, but several days ago when it comes to the choice of judicial authorities and judicial reform at all. We've been saying this since the founding of the party and our concept of courts is different. We confess to regular courts and then there wouldn't be any of these problems we're having right now. Article 7 reads in the draft law, the obligation of judicial judgments. We have suggested that there be "the obligation of judgment" and that, with the adoption of this agreement, the verdict reached in the administrative dispute is binding. Although we, the Administrative Court, don't see, don't recognize, don't suggest, but if it already exists, if such a law is proposed, then we suggest certain solutions, so that at least it might look like something. Article 2 of the Law provides - no appeal can be made against the ruling reached in the administrative dispute, a judicial ruling. When spoken in the language of the profession, there is no better basis, there is no better act to quote – and then to anyone who wants to understand, so that it is clear, even to people who are not in the legal profession, than the Constitution. He says next, Article 36(2). – each has the right to appeal or other remedy against a decision to decide on its right or obligation, or on a law based interest. If this proposal were to remain this way, then many Serbian citizens who have the need to exercise their rights before the Administrative Court would not have the right to two degrees. That is why the amendment must be accepted, in order not to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You are in the reasons why a new law on new disputes is proposed and cited a alignment with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The old law was passed in 1996, so one of the basic reasons is to comply with the Constitution. You state that in an explanation, and when we start from member to member, we can't find out it's really your intention. Indeed, this amendment must be accepted, so that a large number of citizens of Serbia or the number that needs to exercise their rights before the Constitutional Court would not be left without basic constitutional law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34841	A minute and 10 seconds have been used by the MP's group. With the question raised on the number of amendments accepted, the minister said 10 of them were accepted, of which two amendments by the Committee on Justice and Administration were prescribed by the idea of MP Aleksandar Martinovic, the truth is, with an amendment I hope to clarify in the debate. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34842	In front of the New Serbia parliamentary group, MP Aleksandra Ilic and I have submitted an amendment to delete the word "no" in Article 7(2) after the word "slow". So in one part, this amendment is exactly the same as the amendment of counterpart Peric. A colleague of Peric gave an extremely good explanation about this. I will literally read the explanation why his amendment and our amendment were not accepted. "The amendment is not accepted because it is not possible to provide for a regular remedy in an administrative court procedure, since the Law on the Regulation of Courts provides that the administrative court, which is general and specialised in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, is to decide in administrative disputes and that no second-degree court is to decide on the decisions of this court. The Supreme Court of Cassation is a court which decides on a request for review of the court's ruling against the decision of the administrative court. By way of derogation from Article 36(2), The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been established that everyone has the right to appeal and another remedy. The draft law provides for the possibility of using emergency remedies for the decision of the administrative court and thus allows the Constitution to guarantee the right to legal remedies." If such an argument were given to an ordinary citizen, someone who had any problem, believe that nothing would be clear to him. These days we're looking at some top-notch reform in the judiciary, we've brought some new network of courts, and look at just how many reasons have been given unsuspectingly. As I said, an ordinary citizen could not cope with such an explanation and would not know how to make an effort and exercise his right. Here, the main problem is that it is not possible to appeal the verdict, which is contrary to Article 36. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So we have an administrative court, we have no possibility of complaining, so an emergency review will do, eventually, a cassation court, and then it's explained that it's not contrary to Article 36. The Constitution. Through this amendment, as counterpart Peric said, and I say, all the lack of organisation of the new network of courts in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34843	Forty-five seconds used time. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34844	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have also pointed out in the context of the principle debate that this is one of the most important laws to be passed at this session, and I can say freely in some previous period, one of the very important procedural laws that one important right that citizens exercise in the administrative process gives the opportunity to lead before the competent administrative court. In addition to all the objections to this law, we also pointed out a problem that we did not get an answer to, which is why, at the same time or before this law, there is no law on general administrative procedure which, in our opinion, is much more important, because it is applied more often, because in a number of its solutions, a large number of competent state authorities are bound. As regards the amendment itself, it applies to Article 19 and to the head as regards the conditions for the launch of the administrative dispute when the second-degree authorities do not respond according to a statement of appeal to the administrative act. Here was our intensities to point out that, no matter what the deadline was given here after the party intervened in the second-degree procedure, when she was not resolved by appeal, we felt that the seven-day deadline should be reduced to three days. Indeed, we do not see why, when they have not already brought in within 60 days, they would give seven more days to decide or to think about whether they will settle according to the declared appeal and thus, by shortening that deadline, we give the party the opportunity to press charges and the administrative dispute. There is no reason for another week to be given to the competent authority to resolve, since within 60 days, as predicted here, he has not resolved by a declaration of appeal on an administrative act. So we think that deadline should be shortened and the sooner conditions for the party are created. Obviously there's no will in a second-degree body to solve a complaint. Let the party be able to press charges and initiate an administrative dispute.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34845	Thirty seconds was used by the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34846	By commenting on Mr Palalic's amendment, I will explain this amendment to us. In fact, the New Serbia parliamentary group, unlike the DSS, has proposed a five-day deadline. I believe that both of the two deadlines proposed by both us and the DSS are fine. I'm sure we should cut the deadline. It may have kept us up to that deadline for five days, to leave one working week for the party to come to a lawsuit as soon as possible and to exercise its right, but surely I support the idea and amendment of the DSS of three days, so both amendments should have been accepted. In any case, the seven-day period is very long, because if someone, as counterpart Palalic said, has not decided in 60 days, it should not be left so long.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34847	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 23 paragraph 2 states that at the request of the prosecutor, the court may postpone the execution of a final administrative act which has been metrically decided in the administrative matter. He's not Mr. Minister here, but I hope the State Department lady and local self-government understands what this is all about. So there are no administrative acts that are not dealt with metrically. As soon as something is finally and as soon as it is an administrative act, it means that this act has been metrically solved in the administrative matter. The government gives a very ignorant and incorrect explanation of why the amendment should not be accepted. It is said: “The amendment is not accepted because the concept of a final administrative act does not always have to include a measurement decision on the administrative matter, which is the case with the final conclusion on the rejection of the party’s request, in which case the Authority does not decide on the content of the request.” Dear lady, this isn't about an administrative act at all. The conclusion is not an administrative act, the solution is an administrative act, and the conclusion is a purely procedural act. In theory, it's called an accesor act. This isn't about the administrative act at all. When you reject the party's request, it's not a metric solution. The organ is not in the essence of the request at all, but in the beginning, it rejects it. This isn't about the administrative act at all. Obviously, many solutions in the bill are consequences, so let me, however, some ignorance, because if the biller knew what it was about, he would have made a difference that students who study in law schools would have to make, and that is that one type of act is a solution that is an administrative act, and it is always measuredly solved in administrative matters, and the other type of act is a conclusion, it is a procedural act and it is not an administrative act, because it does not metrically decide on the administrative matter. So the bill promoter here has mixed up two types of acts that have nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34849	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34850	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 23 paragraph 3 provides that the party to the administrative procedure may request the court to postpone the execution of the administrative act and before filing an action in two cases. We felt that this first case, at point 1) in case of urgency, was very discriminatory and controversial. So the question is, who does this state of urgency exist for? Does this situation exist for the party to which the administrative act applies? Does this urgency exist in relation to the authority that adopted the administrative act? Does that urgency apply to a third person who is interested? Who does the concept of urgency apply to? What does the concept of urgency mean in the context of Article 23? One far-fetched, very broad term, and if this is the case with the draft law in practice, this can indeed be caused by great abuses. What is the basic abuse? Practically, you could never carry out an administrative act, because the party could say -- you know, I'm asking that the execution of the administrative act be postponed because it's urgent for me. What's my emergency? Well, then there could be a thousand and one reason. Of course, then in practice you can come to an incredible situation that one administrative act that is final cannot be implemented, and the essence of the administrative procedure is to implement an administrative act. Then you will get into trouble that you simply won't be able to end up applying another procedural law and that law by which an administrative act is adopted, which is the General Administrative Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34851	National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34852	So in Article 24, there's this second position that you trust me to be extremely controversial. It says - the case can be filed for the purpose of establishing that the defendant has repeated his earlier act which has already been annulled by a verdict, as well as for establishing the illegality of the act brought without legal fact. Now, gentlemen of the government, I have not heard that there is a legal act that has no legal fact. The administrative act is a legal act, just because it is a legal act it produces some legal fact, creates some rights and obligations for the persons to whom it applies. Now you're standardizing something that doesn't exist. You're saying the illegality of an act that is without a legal fact can be established. An act without a legal fact is not a legal act and it is not only illegal, it is in a legal sense non-existent. Since Roman law, you have that principle of right to regulate what is, what is, and not what cannot be. Now you're standardizing a situation that can't happen theoretically or practically. On the other hand, you say the lawsuit can be filed to determine that the defendant has repeated his earlier act, which has already been annulled by a verdict. What does that mean? This means that the authority of the administration shall adopt an administrative act, and the party shall appeal to the administrative court and the administrative court shall annul that administrative act, and then shall adopt the administrative authority in the re-application of the act of the same content. Is that possible? It is not possible, because you said in this little mention of Article 7 that the judgments made in administrative disputes are binding. What does it mean they're binding? This means that the authority of the administration to which the administrative act has been annulled must adopt the act resulting from the judgment. He can't repeat the same act. Practically, in attitude 2, you're standardizing two situations that can't happen. One cannot happen theoretically, and the other cannot happen because the law excludes the possibility of repeating an act of the same content that has already been annulled by a judicial verdict of the Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34853	The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic together submitted the title above Articles 28 and 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34854	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, as part of this article, we wanted to point out one danger that could arise in the application of this law and create an opportunity for the entire administrative dispute to be resolved without having the right reasons why one administrative dispute would be resolved, i.e. broad court powers may arise when a decision is taken. This article refers to the annulment of the administrative act in the previous procedure. He points out what the court can do in the situation if it does not dismiss the appeal initiating the administrative dispute, the reasons for this were defined by Articles 25 and 26. They are quite detailed on this regulation, all possible reasons why the procedure can be terminated before it has begun and, in particular, in Article 26, that the action was brought untimely, that the act which the defendant contests does not constitute an act whose application is decided in the administrative dispute, that, in addition to the administration's silence, what we have been saying in the last amendment, not all evidence is attached or that, after the action has been filed, the contested act has been annulled, etc. Now the legislator introduces here and, I'd say, one rubber norm, a very broad norm where everything can be fooled. He says, if the court does not dismiss the suit for these reasons, Articles 25 and 26, and finds that the contested administrative act contains such shortcomings in form and components. What are these shortcomings that are not summed up in these two members, for what reasons could the court, without submitting an action to answer, cancel this act? That's the essential question. We believe this member should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34855	The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34856	I have submitted an amendment to Article 29, and Article 29 regulates to comply with the claim by the defendant. It is said "if sued during court proceedings", we have suggested that instead of "in court proceedings" it is "in progress". This is not just about precision and better formulation, it's about essential quality. What's this about? If we say - if the defendants in time, time of something, time of proceedings or debate, or the time when the judge invites the defendant or the defendant and says he should come at 10 o'clock, let the debate begin and conduct the debate, and it lasts until 11 o'clock, so the time between 10 and 11 o'clock, but the procedure is ongoing and it doesn't end. The proceedings shall not be completed for that hour, and if the hearing is postponed or if it is re-scheduled for the purpose of carrying out evidence or for any other procedural and legal reason. I think the board has accepted, but it's likely that the adoption of this law is quick. I can't just believe there weren't so many professional people in the ministry that they could understand the difference between time and the course of the procedure in the administrative dispute.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34857	The government has otherwise accepted the amendment. The 40th amendment was submitted by a group of 21-nation MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34858	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a lawsuit procedure and a SNS proposal to sort of speed up the process. We believe today that this is happening in courts that it takes even two years, even longer, and it is not in the interests of the citizens, and often in the interest of the economy, and, in some ways, encourages corruption in the judiciary. With the amendment, we wanted to oblige the courts to settle disputes within six months. So, after an orderly lawsuit, we wanted to make a court order to end the trial within six months. We believe that we would come to an effective appeal, of course, that appeal must be resolved within an adequate period, within which, as I said, it is in the interests of the citizens and we find that and how could there be any reason for them to be resolved within a series of new rights, when it comes to the judiciary and the judges, let the rights also be obtained by citizens, and one of the fundamental rights is the right to resolve their claim within a reasonable time. We're sorry you didn't understand about this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34859	The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to Article 49. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) He has the word Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34860	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 40 of Section 2 used an extremely inappropriate term. I don't mean inappropriate in some cultural sense, but in terms of legal terminology. Article 40 says the administrative court can respect the suit. When you respect someone, first of all, that someone has to be a person, he has to be a human being. So you respect someone for some of his qualities, personal, moral, intellectual, etc. The lawsuit can't be respected. You may eventually respect the defendant because he is one or the other, and the lawsuit can either be adopted or rejected. However, the legislator uses this unfortunate terminology to respect the suit. The lawsuit can't be respected. A lawsuit may be adopted if it is established, or refused, if it is not established. And only people can respect each other. I think you really had to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34861	The 44th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Zoran Antic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34862	Another SNS amendment that I believe is in the citizens' interest. It refers to the verdicts made in the dispute over the silence of the administration. It's a very common case in our practice. The silence of the administration and the adoption of a legal solution is the biggest problem for citizens today in Serbia, at least that's how we see it. As far as this Article 44 is concerned, we have given a completely new member who brings in some new institutes, some new obligations, obligations in the case of a court, meaning that within 15 days they are making a decision to the authority that has made a mistake to adopt the relevant act within the same 15 days. So, we wanted deadlines to oblige both the court and the authorities of the administration that they had to treat the citizens more adequately, that they had to be more up-to-date. We also provided for the possibility that the responsible person in the authority of the administration who did not act on this court order be punished by some 50,000 dinars. It is also a big problem today – that the responsible persons are not responsible unless they respect the rights of citizens. We believe that this would significantly speed up the process, in order to simply make the procedure more effective and that, with the help of these two new institutes proposed by Serbian citizens, they could be entitled to achieve significantly more effectively because of the silence of the administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34863	Both MPs Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the title above Articles 45 and 45 of the amendment. Mr. Jovan Palalic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34864	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we, within this article, wanted to point out one thing about real life, which is, in fact, how much in the administrative procedure and specifically in the administrative disputes the courts dealt with litigious matters, how many courts, by resolving the subject of the administrative dispute, decided to judge both the damages and the return of things. We had this norm in the current law, and I would like to hear from the ministry's representatives and the minister when he returns some information, the statistical data on how many cases have been solved in the situation in the first place, as it is said here, if the established factual situation provides a reliable basis for resolving the matter of damages or recovery of things. I think it can be counted on the fingers of one hand. This, incredibly, existed as a dead norm in practice. In that sense, the question is whether such a norm should continue to exist. Of course, the question arises to what extent the whole administrative dispute would be complicated if now the administrative court decided to solve a case like this. Of course, you can always write it, it sounds nice. The court will judge for itself, one will want to take off the door and the administrative dispute, to deal with further damages and throw up things. I don't think this norm is real at all, and it represents a decor, to say the case, is given the possibility and the administrative court, so the citizen can expect that any administrative court or any judge in the administrative court will solve their case for damage or restitution of things. I don't think this norm is real and it's nothing in real legal life.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34865	The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 47th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of Head of the 9th above the 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34866	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and ladies and gentlemen of the government, I really don't understand why this amendment was rejected. In fact, you ruled out the possibility of filing an appeal by the draft law on administrative disputes. The law therefore prevents the appeal from being brought against the judgment of the administrative court. What's the appeal? It's a regular remedy. So there's no regular remedy in the administrative dispute, so you wrote in the bill. Chapter 9 in your proposal for a law bears the title – extraordinary remedies. This division of regular and extraordinary remedies makes sense in those procedures in which both are allowed, and in your proposal for a law there is no appeal as a regular remedy. Now the question arises as to which legal means are these extraordinary, when only they are allowed? There is no need to use that termology of extraordinary legal means in a situation where only they are allowed. Then it's not extraordinary legal means, it's simply a remedy. We have proposed our amendment that Chapter 9 bears a changed name – legal means, because they are only allowed, are neither regular nor extraordinary, but are the only legal means that exist in the bill. The government rejects this amendment for the following reason: the amendment is not accepted because the division of ordinary and extraordinary remedies has meaning, among other things, and for the purpose of determining the competent court which is handling these funds. Gentlemen of the government, I'm asking you which court decides by regular legal means in the administrative dispute? If you can answer this question for me, I'll accept that the amendment is not good. Of course, you cannot answer that question because there is no court that settles regular remedies in the administrative dispute for the simplest possible reason – well, there is no regular remedies in the administrative dispute, and you say division makes sense. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34867	The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34868	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, the NS Parliament Club has tabled an amendment to delete a member of the 50th Law on Administrative Disputes. What does this article say? The request shall be submitted to the Supreme Cassation Court through the power of attorney in a manner specified in Article 20, paragraph 1, 2 and 4 of this Act. Explanation. The amendment is not accepted because the same member of the bill accepts the amendment of MP Vlatko Ratkovic. I really don't understand anything right now. Is it possible that the New Serbia amendment was rejected because Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic's amendment was accepted? I don't want to diminish Mr. Ratkovic's knowledge at all. I simply don't understand who has submitted the amendment before. Did Ratkovic see that we had submitted the amendment, then he was better? Because we see that the mass of the amendment here is accepted, so you wrote this law very badly. Government officials have done this law very badly. Nice fellow Peric said, you should have accepted all the amendments and then, practically, the bill would have made sense. If I were you, if I were to accept this number of amendments and see so many mistakes, I would withdraw from the procedure this bill, because obviously we had some amendments, as Minister Markovic said earlier, I completely agree with you, Mr. Spasojevic, and I think so, but we don't accept the amendment. What's this about? It would be correct, Madam President, to say that both amendments were accepted both by Mr Ratkovic and the New Serbia Parliament Club. He's exactly the same, and you don't accept the amendment, because Mr. Ratkovic's amendment was accepted. It's not right. It's not correct for many reasons. First, it is not correct that 24-25 laws were given on Friday night or Saturday morning, and we representatives of the opposition have tried our best, see, how many amendments have been accepted, to write it, and then yet someone's effort and pain and ultimately the knowledge here fails. It's not absolutely right, I think Mr. Ratkovic's amendment and ours should have been accepted, and that would be really correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34869	Thank you for your explanation. However, representatives of the government inform me that the amendments have differences in content and that it is still about identical texts, by tendency and by idea. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to the 50th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34870	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are now in the same situation we were in with the previous amendment. In other words, the amendment is not accepted because it is accepted, the same amendment by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Now I am not going to get into whether the government prefers MPs of the Democratic Party rather than MPs of the opposition parties. Love is a thing of the heart and I don't want to get involved in it. There's something here that's much more important. Of course, what it says in article 50 is pointless. So, the person applying for a review of the verdict, which was brought in the administrative dispute, has to hire an attorney-in-law. In article 49, you wrote that the request could be filed and the prosecutor was notified. So, then, you're bound by a public prosecutor who's a state authority to hire a private lawyer to write him and file a motion to reconsider his decision. It's just that such a solution is pointless. You're aware of that, too, as soon as you accepted Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic's amendment. What does this number of amendments say and accepted and not accepted? On a bill that's relatively short. So this bill has a total of 79 members. So it's in order, tomorrow, when you vote it, it's going to be in line with shorter laws. This is also the case with the 1996 Law on Administrative Disputes. So, relatively small law. You have tens of amendments to such a small law. The government has accepted ten amendments. That means something isn't really, essentially, conceptually in line with this bill. I do not understand the speed at which the government entered the congregation procedure when it comes to this bill. The existing Law on Administrative Disputes – it is more in a procedural sense correct and it could be applied until some quality text of the bill is made up. This now seems to me, as our people would say, from horse to donkey. It will cease to apply to the existing Law on Administrative Disputes which is essentially much better than this. So, I don't understand the speed with which the government has entered the assembly procedure, it's obvious that there are numerous shortcomings in this bill, and tomorrow when this law is passed, it will be one of the basic procedural laws and human rights and freedoms that will be directly tangled by this law. What will be in practice remains to be seen. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the bill is bad, that there are a number of solutions that are bad and from nomotechnical, both from the language and from the constitutional point of view and, as he said, a respected colleague of Spasojevic, as soon as in this size, a small number of members of the bill have so many amendments, the best decision was, which you unfortunately did not want to make, to withdraw the bill from the assembly procedure and make up one correct text of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34871	The word is Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34872	I will use the time of the NS parliamentary group. I support Mr. Alexander Martinovic's amendment. Absolutely, Madam President, since all of this applies to the same thing, I really don't understand what the representatives of the government are essentially, they could have changed in one and a half sentences in terms of saying that the amendment is deleted. Only if, once again, I read – Article 50, the request is handed over to the Supreme Cassation Court through the power of attorneys in a manner determined in Article 20. I would pray, since you've told me that professional services have informed me, to tell me the arguments that you could have changed here compared to what the NS Group suggested. I will not say out of courtesy - this amount of stupidity that in one such member, in addition to all the competent state authorities, a power of attorney is filed a complaint on behalf of a state body, which is not an ignorant party, it is absolutely something that not every Serbian citizen can be clear, but is scandalous. Through the power of attorney, it is submitted to the Supreme Cassation Court. I'm just curious about what you could have essentially changed, and then you could say that it was erased or you could have said it through the power of attorneys in the order of maybe the public prosecutors. I don't know what you could have changed. I'm not happy with the answer. I expected you, President, to be correct, to say that if it's essentially... Everyone can change one word, so it's different from my amendment that I've submitted and that's accepted and this one doesn't, but I'm essentially sure Mr. Ratkovic and I think the same thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34873	My intelligence isn't any further than the ones I just took out. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 71st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34874	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the amendment submitted by SNS MPs is actually about the legal consequences of passive non-compliance in the verdict. The amendment reads - the court will, under official duty, file a criminal complaint against the person responsible in the body who does not execute a verdict without a reasonable reason within the time limit set out in Article 1(1). The reasons for the Government are as follows - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the obligation of the state authorities to report criminal acts being prosecuted by official duty, notified or otherwise found out by Article 222. The law on criminal proceedings. That's exactly what this amendment says, and it doesn't really leave the possibility of doubt or evading obligations by the court. The proposed amendment aims in a clear way to oblige the court to file criminal charges against the person responsible for the criminal offence for the non-execution of a court ruling, as referred to in Article 340. Criminal code. The application is a legal obligation of every state authority, and therefore a court that is not respected in a large number of cases. The damaged citizens avoid submitting part of the application for lack of recognition of the right, and in part because of the fact that they are still directed to address the same authority against which the responsible person should be applied. For these reasons, in practice, none of the responsible persons shall be charged with non-execution, so judgments in administrative disputes are often not carried out, but parties are forced to press charges for enforcement again, which makes the proceedings long and ineffective. The establishment of a procedure that is effective and fast enough to fundamentally protect the right of citizens in relation to acts of government is also the international obligation of the Republic of Serbia as signatories of the international pact on civil and political rights, which prescribes the obligation of the state to provide legal persons with effective complaints. However, if a decision on the appeal has to be made for years, which is mostly the case in our judiciary, then the appeal is certainly not effective. The same obligation is, of course, prescribed by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, in Article 6(1) requiring a fair and public debate within a reasonable period before an independent court, which is a good part of this amendment and which is foreseen.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34875	A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 75th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 77th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Since we have completed the examination of the bill in particular, I conclude the review of the draft law on administrative disputes in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Violations (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the People's MPs at the Bill: Sreto Perić, Mirko Munjic, Zoran Krasić, Vjerica Rade, Aleksandar Martinović, Milorad Buha, Tomislav Nikolić, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Sasa Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Boris Pošurić, Mileta Poskurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Toštimović and Dragan Žaln Čolić, Dragan Palić, Mirović and Milo Pajić, Mirović. National MPs Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic have writtenly withdrawn amendments to Articles 206b, 206v and 206g, which they submitted on 21 December 2009. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the Law of Infractions, to a part that significantly increases the level of punishment, without any arguments in our possession, eventually shortens payment deadlines, the SNS has filed a number of amendments, in that first part of the law. We really believe that MPs could accept these amendments and supplement the laws, we need one much more serious analysis, one analysis that had to be delivered to the MPs, so that based on this analysis, the number of violations and the possible repetition of the offences, the movement of the number of acts carried out, could come to some conclusion whether these drastic changes in the level of punishment are necessary. In particular, in Article 1, you give, in our opinion, one very difficult possibility, therefore, to combine prison sentences and fines. We've had it kind of regulated up until now, but only in those hard parts, the works that relate to any life, the property. In any case, that punishment was not often applied. With this bill in a way contrary to some general principles and determination when it comes to criminal policy, at least to the definitions we've had so far, until we've received this law before us, you're giving us some opportunities regarding fines, and you're also being punished by a man both in cash and in prison. The very provision given in Article 1 is quite vague. It is unclear whether it is necessary for these two penalties to go together and to be a cumulative punishment or to leave an alternative for a man to be punished like this or a prison sentence or a fine. We think that's where the big leak was made. Also in defining the member himself, as I said earlier, we believe that the levels of penalties provided for by this law and which amount to about 150,000 dinars and the possibility of someone being punished by 60 days in prison, in a situation where the average salary is 30,000, are essentially small. If someone is also punished with a maximum fine of 150,000 dinars, and a prison sentence goes in fact with that parallel, someone, and above all, someone's family you punish and how drastically, it will take months and months and work and denial to pay off that fine. In this situation, in the situation and in the time in which we live and how difficult it is to get to work, in which they are small, I get the impression that by this bill you wanted, first of all, to provide the administration, to secure revenues for courts, and to re-supply to this Serbian orphanage, to some extent that it is inappropriate, regardless of how much tax burden it is in relation to the salaries and income of citizens and businesses. This is an additional imposition, an additional sentence, uncritically introduced, and I would say generally of the SNS unacceptable. We will, when we go according to these amendments first of all, because of the public, by a few sentences about each of these legal proposals that are before us, so that citizens are simply directed to how much in an unspeakable way you have devised punishment when it comes to criminal sanctions. I'd like to remind you that the social danger of the offense is not even close, we're convinced, so great in relation to the penalties you've provided for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34877	A group of the 21st People's MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34878	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Article 2 is governed by Article 32 of the basic law, where punishment is foreseen under the Law of Infractions to be a prison sentence of 30 days or 60 days. We asked that the new proposal be deleted with our amendment. However, it seems to me that the amendments were slightly below the events, probably the speed at which the session was scheduled, even now I think that this deadline should be longer than 60 days, given the reasons given by the government. It is explained that the government does not accept the amendment because it believes that in other areas other than public order and peace, there can be technically serious violations for which the prescribed sentence can be 60 days in prison. These are rare occasions when I agree with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There may also be serious violations, especially when, for example, non-intentional spending on funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Everything would be fine if you put in this law that non-intentional ministers of the Republic of Serbia's budget cannot call for their ministerial immunity, but rather respond to a judge for violations. The sentence can't be less than 60 days to a year. Why do I say that? I would like to hear the current Deputy Prime Minister of Bozidar Djelic, who wrote criminal reports to his predecessors for far less than that, and now to the coalition partners in the SPS. Why doesn't he now ask against unconscious ministers, and even from his government, if they haven't purposely spent funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, criminal charges are being raised. It will remain for the people to look forward to the DRI statement and write misdemeanor reports. We can't call a minister to criminal responsibility because he has immunity, which the government has set up for him, etc. If we can't get the ministers to answer, at least let the law say, who knows, maybe at some other time, when they can no longer defend themselves behind immunity, they're in violation of such big acts as you predicted in this case.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34879	A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34880	Because of the public, in Article 3, we have educational labour measures, a proposal to increase them twice. What is elemental illogicality is that, based on the Labour Act, they can only be two hours a day, which means that the cost of a complete administration is important and expensive. I don't know where you found this. It takes, for example, a maximum sentence like this to be carried out for some 120 working days, which best says how pointless this proposal actually is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34881	The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34882	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have tabled an amendment to Article 5. Proposal for a law regarding a member of the 35th basic law. He refers to the amount of fines. In order not to bother my colleagues now, 500 dinars were scheduled, which is now changing to 5,000, 50,000 is increasing to 150. We made a second proposal at other financial amounts. We believe that this is appropriate for the financial situation, but the financial situation cannot be the only reason for our proposal for this amendment. We have this series of reasons to suggest that it be different. In the reasons for not accepting this amendment, the Government says – so far we have had mild fines, so they have not given effect – the punishment of legal and natural persons. Then you had to run an analysis. What do you think of the amount to which you're increasing your sentence? If you don't achieve certain effects now, are you going to increase these penalties, otherwise 10, some even 50 times, even more? If the fine turns into a prison sentence, according to the Law of Infractions, that amount increased by only 500 dinars a day. On the one hand, there is only a state, and on the other hand its citizens don't look at it at all. I have to remind you today, I did so yesterday, Roman law is not only known for certain institutes that we are studying today at law schools, but also for that time state towards its citizens. If there are no effects, if certain negative phenomena continue to occur, consider whether the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, have done all the jobs they have done in the Law on the Ministry, in the Law on Government, which is why they exist. I'm sure they didn't. Remember, it wasn't that long ago when Mladjan Dinkic, at the time as finance minister, asked for some pointers in Serbia to report owners of independent trades that did not give the buyer a fiscal cut. He rewarded them with 500 dinars. Then a certain number of people appeared in Serbia, the truth not great, who turned it into a profession, so it was enough daily to report 10 such people and they had some diaries that were harder to earn elsewhere. Just think about it. Think about something else. If there is no other way to prevent such acts, then prevention should be done by preschool institutions. We can't expect a man who's learned, and by the way, he's a wrongdoer, because he's increased the fine from once to respect it and that he won't commit any more violations. You have to think in a different way, make an analysis and anything you can do for the citizens of Serbia, not just punish them. This is like what we can often hear in the people, if you have no other way, you have it in your pocket. That would be fine if you had made it possible for a number of citizens who are lying on the tracks today, who have no employment at all, to work. Then you could talk about increasing your sentence. This way when the state doesn't do anything or almost anything for its citizens, day after day, there's a growing number of those who are left out of work, let's now increase the fines. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34883	The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34884	Miss! Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, my colleagues and I, on behalf of the SNS, have submitted an amendment in the interest of Serbian citizens to Article 6 and have proposed to delete Article 6. Article 6 provides for a reduction of time limits for payment of fines from six months to no longer than three months. We find it unacceptable to cut deadlines for paying fines, especially during the period that Serbia and its citizens are going through. It is a time when there is an apparent drop in employment, a decline in the standard of living of Serbian citizens, a fall in company liquidity and economic activity. Do you really think that the proposed solution will be productive and that this will result in more effective payment of fines for violations. When I mentioned the standard of living for Serbian citizens, I can't help but mention that I attended a very unpleasant situation this morning. It is just one example of what the standard of citizens of Serbia is and how hard it is for Serbian citizens to live. So this morning when I was coming to the assembly session, I had a chance to see a man at the gas station give a personal ticket to a pourter and ask him to make his 300 dinars, because there's no money. So he gives his ID, he doesn't pay, he can't make 300 dinar fuel. What standard of Serbian citizens are we talking about then? Then how is he going to pay the fine? He'll hardly pay the fine within six months, not within three months. Therefore, cutting deadlines along with a multiple increase in the amount of fines would lead many to the situation if they could not pay the fines on time, and would be replaced by prison, which is not the interest of the citizens of Serbia, and I hope neither the state's interest nor the practice of civilised countries. I suggest you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34885	I thank Miss Budimirovic. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34886	Another amendment extending the duration of the prison sentence to some of the restrictions that we have had so far in the existing law and also in the next position abolishes the total length of the sentence. So the height of the total length of the penalty limits, which we had the team to do, which means that in this way, I'd say, citizens are putting themselves in a more unfavourable position than they've been before. I have already mentioned, it is not a problem for us MPs to accept a criminal policy that is in the interests of citizens and which is the fruit of some more serious analysis, but to make such proposals, without any analysis, and to expect MPs, first of all, to accept opposition parties, I think it is unrealistic. I'm sorry that this is the way these laws are even proposed. After all, I'd say a lot to take advantage of the opportunity. Infringement courts need to be done in their own house, not put everything on the backs of citizens. Today, and if you pay the fine that the judge has prescribed for you, with a payment, with a photocopy, you have to go back to that criminal judge, to prove that you paid. If you do not deliver a copy of the payment, you will have to pay the fine again. Of course, if you don't save your own copy. There's so much impeccableness in misdemeanor courts. It is such an inability that they cannot record the penalties they are charged, and we are coming, that is, the government and the government are coming before MPs with one law that makes it very difficult for citizens, and there is almost no citizen of Serbia who is not in a position to pay the fine. Especially when it comes to us drivers, it may happen more often than we should, but even if we should be punished, it should be appropriate both to the opportunities and state of business and standards today in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34887	The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, the Verica Radet, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34888	Ladies and gentlemen, the government has listed three reasons why it has offered us this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Violences. They say the first reason is the need to tighten sanctions for violations, given that the existing penalties, both for natural persons and for legal persons, are insufficient to achieve the purpose of punishing for the offences committed. We think that this is not an essential reason, but because the budget is adopted for the next year, a fixed deficit, should be filled, of course, out of citizens' pockets, and then this can sound nice -- it needs to be tightened by criminal penalties, because many violations, when someone does, people with approval accept that it should be punished, which, of course, we also think, that any offense should be punished, but it cannot be done in this way and cannot, at all costs, be peeked, i.e. to stab the hands of citizens in the pocket. This law on violations, we should remind, was brought to us in 2005 and all governments from 2005 to today claim that there is no collection, that every day we live better, that inflation is five, six, seven percent, top of the head, and then it would be logical to increase the fines for violations in accordance with this possibility. But no, when citizens are to be deceived, then this story that I just made, and when they have to fill the state budget, then the court fees increase, then the administrative fees increase, then the penalties for violations increase. We think it's simply unacceptable. The second reason, the government says, for the adoption of this law is the need to amend certain provisions of this law in order to more effectively conduct a misdemeanour procedure and to comply with the latest amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is subsidized in the infringement procedure. This is why we could accept it, but obviously it's only about increasing the sentence and that this, Madam Minister, is simply not a reason. This reason would be a good reason, but not to do so every two years if the law were to be changed just to increase penalties, but to finally make a good law on violations that would cover all the violations that already exist or that could be foreseen by some future laws that this law would pass. If you had done so and done so, then there would be no third reason, which is truly scandalous, the reason for the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Law on Infringements, you say – is that it agrees with the proposed amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and the improper behaviour of sports events. You will agree, Mrs Malovic, as a colleague we are talking, that it is inappropriate, that it is almost impossible, anything is possible when you have 126 votes, that you are now one law that you are passing, it is not important that it is a law on the prevention of violence, it can be any one, which predicts any violation, that you, as in this area, are changing the system law, to harmonise some other law that is conditionally lex specialis in relation to the law on violations. That's why we've been telling all the justice ministers for years that coded regulations have to be made, both criminal and criminal. Then we wouldn't be in this situation. It is always possible in some transitional provisions to bring fines, for example, into line with the cost of living, with official inflation. That would be fair and that would be something that would be real. You're saying that in this article, otherwise, since this law mostly, as I said, provides for an increase in penalties and our amendments are, of course, up to those members, but we're proposing something between the current, existing situation and between what you've suggested. You're saying that the Member of 190 was treated with this Article 20 that I submitted the amendment specifically. The absence and refusal to testify and under the existing law, if the witness who has been called neatly does not come and the absence does not justify it, he will be fined 500 dinars. It's really small and it's insignificant, but you're suggesting that that amount be between 10,000 and 50,000 dinars. Imagine, this amount of 500 dinars is from 2006, and you three years later propose to increase that amount 20 times. Do you admit that for so many times there was inflation, that so many times the cost of living was increased? This just isn't appropriate. So we think that this really small amount of 500 dinars should be replaced by, say, a range of 5,000 to 30,000 dinars. And maybe this isn't, in fact, consistent with the economic situation in the country, but on the other hand, we have to protect the legal order, we have to protect the rule of law, and we have to provide a witness to be able to conduct a misdemeanour procedure. In the next position, the position of the 2nd proposed member, the current law says - if the witness comes, and since he is warned of the consequences, he will not testify without legal reason, it can be punished, there were between 500 dinars and 2,000 dinars earlier, and you are now proposing between 10,000 and 50,000 dinars. We also think this is too much. We have suggested that it be from 5,000 to 30,000 dinars, therefore, again, to satisfy what is necessary, which is to enable the conduct and completion of the infringement procedure. On the other hand, imagine someone who is proposed as a witness, and for some reason, as it says here, whether there's a legal reason or not, there are other reasons why someone might not testify, and they can't say it. You will punish him with a fine of 50,000 dinars. We don't think they're good solutions for you, that they're not good proposals, and it would really be good if you accepted these amendments, that both the conditions that should essentially be met by the Law of Infractions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34889	Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34890	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is an increase in the fines for the court's craftsmen if they do not respond to the court's call, or go to testify. To date, 500 to 2,000 dinars will be fined from 10,000 to 50,000 dinars. However, I would ask one question, since the minister of justice is here -- how long should your assistant or secretary be punished if he does not act on a competition that is open to court experts? Why don't you spread the circle of judicial skills? Why did you close it one way or another? It has become a matter of privilege in Serbia. The bigger the circle of the arts, the better the quality of the art itself. Simply, this quality will result in several artists or several groups of witches around whom the courts will be abducted. But they will be forced to do excellent quality because of a large number of judicial skills. In this situation, I know of several examples where certain citizens who meet all the conditions have submitted requests to be entered in the register of judicial skills, until today they are not responsible for whether they have been accepted, or whether they have been rejected. But every time they did, they were ordered to -- you have to pay so much and so much Republic tax. If it's a tax problem, raise it up, but let people work. If it isn't, solve it. If he deserves to be given to him, and if he doesn't deserve to be denied his request.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34891	The 22nd amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Perry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34892	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam Minister, the essence of amending the law on violations is to increase the amount of fines. The punishment itself plays a preventive and repressive role. Preemptive not to be re-emerged similar offenses, similar or the same offenses, that they are not made by new perpetrators. Repressive, to punish for what it was. You have seen our correctness, the correctness of the SRS that we ourselves have suggested that certain fines increase. There are reasons for that, but not as many times as you suggest. The second reason is to shorten the period for mandatory payment of fines based on the offence, from six to three months. The third reason, i.e. the third newspaper, is the plea agreement. You'll see in practice that there will be a lot of problems about this institute of guilty confession. Very often, certain offenders, or those who are not, will admit that they are because of the possibility of saving some others with whom they already are, are concerned about committing the same or similar offences several times. It should be borne in mind that, at some point, the perpetrators of crimes may be recruited from the ranks of the perpetrators. Therefore, by setting up this area, or regulation in law and the imposition of certain penalties, it makes sense. We're not against it, but it has to be appropriate, to have some measure. When it comes to a plea agreement, we generally believe that it is not good, but if you accept it, we have suggested that Article 22 in relation to Article 206v, point 8, in which you suggest that it be deleted, because you say – when the solution from Article 7 of this article becomes legal, the agreement and all the files that are connected, are destroyed in front of the court, which is a formal note – we said they are not being destroyed, that they remain. You say in your reasons for not accepting this amendment – they must be destroyed because they can be used as evidence against the offender. In the 7th position of this member you said – they cannot be used unless the agreement is accepted, what the parties have tried to agree. There will be criminal proceedings, but it cannot be used against the perpetrator. So, both the court and the official person and all the acts that have been led before him, or in connection with the procedure that he's leading, must be preserved. Imagine if we were to do so now for some documentation that is related to the tender, meaning those who have not passed on public procurement, claim that they should be destroyed. You don't have to, you have to keep it. So here and here, everything that is related to the attempted plea agreement needs to be preserved, archived as the law on the archiving of the building does. I think that this amendment is necessary to accept, in order for this institute to make as much sense as possible, remove some confusion and not cause new problems in the conduct of a misdemeanour procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34893	The 23rd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, tabled an amendment proposing that Article 25a be added after Article 25a. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Snezana Malovic, our minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34894	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I accept this amendment. We've missed the technical failure to settle this issue, and I think the Justice and Management Committee has responded well. I will take this opportunity, when I have already taken my word, to give some clarification regarding certain statements by the MPs. This bill is in the function of other draft laws that treat violence in sports competitions, in order not to be regulated in a comprehensive way. However, this is not the only reason why this bill is proposed, but we have taken advantage of the opportunity to arrange other areas, and yet in the function of a comprehensive reform of the judiciary that is being implemented at this time. This bill should contribute to the effectiveness in the handling of future infringements. It should contribute to strengthening procedural discipline. You had a chance to see that during the summer, when the Code of Criminal Procedure was on the agenda, that it was arranged and accordingly, we do so with the Law of Infractions. Also, according to this analogy, an emergency legal remedy, which has otherwise been abolished in the CAP, has not made any sense that the social events that are lower incrimination remain. Also, a plea agreement has been introduced, which should contribute to a smaller number of infringements, such as in other countries of Europe or in another part of the world. A question has been raised here for court-laws, although it is not part of the debate in this bill, so I will take the opportunity to answer that question as well. It's not true that the Justice Department is acting on volunteering for all these artists. I agree with the fact that the law is inconclusive, that it's archaic, that it doesn't correspond to social reality. There is a bill in preparation to be found in front of this respected home next year, where a comprehensive and modern way will be done in this area. But in order to overcome the situation until the new law is passed, the justice ministry has asked all courts in Serbia to need judicial experts from the relevant areas. According to the answer we received from the courts themselves, they are entered or not registered by court experts. You've witnessed a lot of bad things that have happened in this area, I'm not going to say, to extend that criticism to one general level, but certainly there are a lot of things that should be arranged on that occasion, and we're going to try to make a bill that I said would be on Parliament's agenda next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34895	Since we have completed a review of the Bill's proposal in particular, I conclude the review of the Amendments and Supplements Act on Infringements in Details. Since we have carried out a search of the draft law both in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Indemnity of the Treaty (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the People's MPs at the Bill: Aleksandra Janković, Dušan Marić, Sredo Perić, Dobrislav Prelić, Tomislav Nikolić, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Božidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Boris Pošurić and Gojko Radić Radić, Milan Žačan Živić, Žilić, Žiljan Žilić Žiljić, Žilić, Žilić Žilić, Žilić, Žilić Žilić Žilić, Hralić, Hrjavić, Hrjavić, Hrjavić, Hrjavić, Hrjavić, Hrjavić, Hr. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee's report, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. On the basis of Article 148(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected as incomplete amendments to the MPs: Srete Perić, who proposed that a new member be added in front of Article 1; Željko Tomic and Aleksandr Pejcic to Articles 7 and Željko Tomic and Aleksandr Pejcic to Article 10. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34896	It's an interesting termology used by the current government. And even if I weren't a psychologist, I would ask myself if it was a random or deliberate massage, because I asked for the word "indecent behavior", believing that misbehaving is a rather casual definition that allows for abuse and arbitrary interpretation of excellence, which will by no means contribute to the repression of aggressive outbursts and violent behavior, but can therefore be the basis for the labelling and execution of politically inadequate participants in sports manifestations. What's interesting? It is an interesting argument by the government for not accepting this amendment, where it is said that the government does not accept the amendment for reasons that it is legally and technically inadequate. So you can't accept an inaccurate formulation of impropriety, but it's justified by incompetence. This "legally technical" is already a common euphemism that we have had one hundred times to hear about the adoption of the Separatist Statute of Vojvodina. As soon as I've said this "separatic," I'm in serious danger of being accused as a neo-Nazi, so-called. NGOs, and in fact organizations are run by some foreign countries engaged in the marketing of the current ambassador-tecun government. Everything that is not "progressive and liberal" is inappropriate. Here's what this guy's liberalism says about a famous Russian. "First, what liberalism is, if we speak at all, rather than attack, explained or wrong, to existing social arrangements. Isn't that right? My fact is that Russian liberalism is not an attack on an existing social order but an attack on the very essence of our existence, on the very being, on the self-editation, not on Russian occasions, but on Russia. My library has made him deny Russia, i.e. He hates and beats his mother. Every unfortunate and unsuccessful phenomenon causes him to laugh, maltene excitation. He hates folk customs, Russian past, everything. If there is justification for him, it may be that he does not understand what he is doing and takes his hatred for Russia as the most fruitful liberalism." This is what Dostoevsky wrote in “Idiot, ” says Jevgenj Pavlovich. However, it is applicable to the Serbian situation and is especially applicable at a time when the government is trying to deal with all those young people who have been assessed as inadequate because they are expressing their protests against the current authorities. To be clear, New Serbia is for the principle of personal, individual responsibilities, but we will never accept that for various aggressive turns there is a possibility to prescribe some collective responsibility of fans generalised. Already in the opening debate, I said in principle that it is really inappropriate to put an equal sign between the term "cheers" and the term "hooligan". Not only inadequate, but hypocritical. In fact, what's very interesting is that one television, we all know which, they call it U92, is running a very serious campaign against all organizations and fans' groups, has now accused the Red Star fans, and what's interesting is that in 2000, "Delije" won the Lifetime Award right from this U92. When the jury of the B92 "Ritam of the Heart" cult show decided to reward "Delija" and explained its decision in the words: "guys who have been opposed to the regime for 10 years have been fighting militias, while others have slept in their homes, they are "Delije". The award was presented in the festival atmosphere of "Rex". So 2000 heroes today are hooligans. The top is that the Deli Prize was then beaten. So what today is considered a very offensive and undesirable device was then, in fact, the 10 torches represented the prize that the "Delies" received. In the U92 "Insider" show, some of the decorated fans were identified as perpetrators of various crimes, and it is not mentioned that they also received a prize for the work of the media house. Also, individual DOS leaders, who came to power with the help of the "Delija", are now politicising dealings with hooligans and are giving up those who contributed to the overthrow of Slobodan Milosevic's regime on the streets of Belgrade. Gentlemen, decide whether you will now, because these fans are no longer responding to you, because there are some songs that sing at the expense of the president of Serbia, who are quite instructive, I would listen to them in his place... A colleague from the DS, throwing ladies is inappropriate and inappropriate behavior not at sports events, but also in the Assembly. That's why I'm saying it's very important to define what inappropriate behavior is, and it's obvious that these "yellows" are not exactly clear with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34897	National MP Dusan Maric has tabled an amendment to the Bill's proposal and to Article 1. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34898	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment that I propose to delete this "and misbehave" in the title of the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior. I did it for the next reason. The first reason, what the bill underlines under the term "violence and misbehavior" is, in fact, explicit violence. Secondly, it's hard to define what it is to be rude, misbehaved. It is particularly difficult to define when it comes to sports events, football matches, given the fact that inappropriate behavior is a kind of personal map of all major sports events. Since the world and the century, from fighting Roman gladiators to today's Olympic games, vulgar curses, vulgar Scandicating, throwing, insulting, what you mean and undermining under the notion of inappropriate behavior, is an integral part of all sports events. The next reason I suggested this is because such inappropriate behavior is impossible to forbid. Is it inappropriate if 50,000 fans at the Partisan game and the Star are running for judge "judgment thieves"? There is no judicial verdict that the judge is a thief. It is the most serious possible insult, however, it is not possible to prohibit it and it will not be possible to prohibit it after the adoption of this law. Next thing you know, 50,000 people should be arrested, emptyed out the stadium, and some effect should be achieved in accordance with this law. The next reason is because I get the impression that this bill will be misused and I think it has been misused and the announcement of its adoption in the Assembly. I'll give you two examples of this abuse. The first example is a hack led by an unfortunate death of a French fan in Belgrade. I think the unfortunate event was used to speak less of these hooligan fan groups, and more of which is said, of course negatively, about "Face" and similar organisations of young Serbian nationalists. Another example is this new case of media hacks leading up to the event at the match between "Partizana" and "Shahtjore" because of the scandal of journalist B92 Branko Stankovic and those unfortunate dolls that fans played with. It is clear to all that it is misbehaving, it is clear to all of you that it will not be possible to prevent it in the future. That's what needs to be condemned. But I ask one question - what would happen if fans were playing with a man doll and they were running ugly, say, against Ratko Mladic? I'm asking a question -- would B92, all these powerful human rights ambassadors, who are now defending B92, who are condemning fans, would these be called by one criticism? Of course not. I think even if they were to praise it, they would say this is proof that the young Serb generations have finally become aware and want to get rid of it, to deal with their dark past. For the adoption of this law to make sense, there are a few questions to be answered. The first question - why have you waited nine years, why is this law only being passed now? The second question is, why did the prosecution start dealing with cheerleading groups? Why did the Serbian judiciary go into action with cheerleading groups, and not end with judicial judgments, trials against the leaders of these cheerleading groups. I think we're currently running about two hundred murder trials, rape trials, serious crime. It is interesting, however, that these trials take several years, but they do not end with judgments. The next thing, the question arises -- how is it possible and who allowed these individuals, criminals, to be members of the highest bodies of prominent sports organisations and societies, including football clubs "Red Star" and "Partizan"? The next question -- how is it possible that such fans, hooligans, about the cost of clubs for years, are specifically thinking about football clubs "Red Star" and "Partizan" travel free of charge to international games that these football clubs play abroad? The next thing you know, how is it possible and who allowed it, we've been witnessing more cases like this in the last few years, that these fans are entering football clubs? There was one case, I think he was at the Partizan football club or the Red Star football club, getting on buses after the game, pulling the football ears, slapping them and none of them being processed. The question is, who's protecting these individuals? Next question, how and why do clubs allow these fans to bring pyrotechnics to the stadium? Next and perhaps most important question, who sits in the football club administration, representatives of which political parties? The last question, what bothers me the most, is whether this sudden matchdown with fans is the result of an evaluation of someone from the ruling set that these cheerleading groups have become politically inadequate and that at some point they can...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34899	They took advantage of your group's time. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Milet Pocurica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34900	I'm not responding fast enough or the reflexes are dropping. So we wanted to fix Article 1 of this law by our amendment in a way that precisely through three positions we would define the first jurisdiction, where it is immediately seen that in a member of the bill the time and distance times of the law are expanded, so, 300 meters or a kilometer from the scene and the time period are moved in Article 2, when something that involves sporting activity involves the possibility of applying the law in the event of an intervention of security or police or someone else who has succeeded in implementing the law is competent. In the position of our member's 2nd proposal, we took a step ahead of what you have offered in Articles 7 and 8 in the bill, to define in advance which game, which sporting event would be linked to or with an increase in the number of participants, enormous, unexpected or increased risk, which you later define in Article 8, increased risk, as regards Article 11 of the original law. We wanted to do this so that in the beginning all of them, as we put them in our position 3., know that they do not have sport competitions of greater risk, from the chance that there will be a deterioration of the safety of participants or observers of the sporting event, to relieve them of the obligations of Article 5, which they must especially through some agreement of established agencies, later formed, educate their members of security or pay them expensively or to pay the police to help. It would be known exactly how in paragraphs 2 and 3 of our proposal we predicted who would be obliged to provide and who did not. So that it won't happen at routine country sports games, where maybe some team of fans of a rival local team makes a micro-incident, and now I don't know what kind of risk, leads to the suspension of that team's financial sanctions or the management of that team punishing, to potentially intimidate and reduce the desecration of sports activities. To lead to an absurd situation where, for example, now for advertising or for whatever reason, the president has paid some fine for drinking champagne. The president of the state drank champagne, so what? He's going to apply himself and pay the fine, and I don't know which accountants who did something wrong. If we want to hunt down serious crime, serious problems, serious violations, then we need to make the law look like that, that it is also known in this law -- what sporting events are involved. It's basketball, football, mass, international events. It is known where there is, that there is and to be sanctioned, and to be monitored and protected by all those involved, but not in a way that could imply that it applies to everything and everything. Then it wouldn't be good and it would be bad law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34901	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34902	Basically, I've already said, since I've submitted an amendment to delete "and misbehaving" in the title because it's inaccurate and de facto defined, the essence of this amendment is similar to what I've said, because the question -- what is it all about misbehaving and how can it be characterized by the behavior of various political officials? Is it, for example, misbehaving that Bojan Kostresh is talking about the future Belgrade region? Is it unpolitical behavior, which is not in accordance with the Constitution or is it also misbehaving? In the principle debate, I said that Justice Minister Malovic noted that, with restrictive criminal policy, this bill would also provide for preventive measures. The real question is - what exactly is involved in the government's preventive measures, which has finalized the collapse of the value system, so today there is no respect for institutions that should have authority in normal democratic society? How, say, believe in an army run by a Shutanovac? How do you believe in an independent judiciary when a party state sets up party personnel? How do you believe in science when her first man God destroys all institutions of national importance, especially the Vinca Institute? How do you trust Baron Minhauzen of Serbian politics, Junior, if the biggest investment he could make to Serbia is the publication of an autobiographical novel "All My Lies"? How do you believe in the protection of human rights when state secretary Marko Karadzic, whom 90% of young people call GPRS (Gay PR and Serbia)? Here's one of the comments that shows how young people at forums react to this law. He says this way - young people are guilty of being fans, that the regime has no money to create a cheerleading culture, that people are educated, but rather, that they constantly produce from them socially deviant cases without parental aponage, an angry car for estraced fish by rafts. It is the only product of this regime and system - a bunch of useless young generations, the ghettoization of these young people without a job, apartment, situation, no quality of life education, no existence, a bunch, a crowd that is easy to baptize to the idiots, pests, hooligans. Especially if no one assumes any responsibility for all of them and their number is not reduced, but rather on a steady rise, which tends to be an axim of future generations, with transitions and integrations, privatisations, presentations, blablaisation, and indeed loses that layer of the population of young and creative people who today are reduced to a statistical error, not by their will.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34903	The People's MP, Milorad Krstin, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. There's no answer for word. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The word is Mr. Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34904	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at Sports Events with the proposal to be deleted in the introductory sentence, in paragraph 1, in the first sentence of the words "and misbehaving" shall be deleted. Indecent behavior is a very broad notion that in this law, nor in the law so far, it is not sufficiently precise, which will result in different intentional or unintended interpretations of whether certain behaviour is decent or inappropriate. This may result in the abuse of laws for the purposes of dealing with certain sports event organizers or fans' groups, especially fans' groups who, according to the government's assessment, are politically inadequate. We have recently had one example, and this has been followed by all the media in Serbia – Boris Tadic, president of the Republic, has been punished on the basis of this law, Article 4 of point 9, I think it is, according to this proposal, point 7 and now it turns out that we have a president who is misbehaving. I'd like to know if there's a similar example in the world somewhere. All of us here in Serbia know that this play is designed to in some way gain a percentage more on the popularity of the current president. But it is this member and this interpretation -- misbehaving, that the president of the state also ranks in line with those who have come under the influence of this law, and in particular this Article 4. So those who broke inventory in the stadium, and those who shot the police, and those who brought pyrotechnic material to the stadium, and those who fought each other, and those who drank smuggled wine in the stands. Therefore, the SRS believes that this bill should delete the words "indecent behavior", precisely because it leaves the possibility of arbitrary interpretation by a person who is to be legally qualified... .
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34905	My apologies, my mistake was missed by Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic's amendment to Article 2. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34906	You're one of the few people who admits to making a mistake. Is it also a mistake that half a million Serbs in Serbia are under investigation for patriotism? In this day's daily press, in "Blica" since 18 December, a scandalous title has taken place – the State will examine the work of a believer of an ultra-rightist, dedicated to Ivan Ivanovic, a believer of A from Arangelovac and president of the Association of Citizens "Our". The question arises – is it under media charges that Ivan Ivanovic was involved in a rally that ended in riots and the destruction of the city at the same time under investigation and more than half a million Serbs and other Serbian citizens who participated in various myths, unfortunately, we have many -- the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, Radovan Karadzic and NATO genocide? Did the extreme media in Serbia become prosecutors and interrupt the court? It seems so, because, as you choose prosecutors and judges, it seems to be true. It is clear that no journalist or any other public worker or ordinary citizen in Serbia should become the subject of a lynching or any other kind of harassment and discrimination because of a publicly spoken word. It's something that's inadmissible and has to be stopped in time. But also, extreme media intellectuals, media outlets, must not think that they are the substitute for the prosecutor's office and the Serbian Serbian Serbia and that they have the right to simply enter into the calculation of whoever they want, by sticking media labels like they fall on a new ideological mind and insulting the dignity of many individuals and associations, including the Serb people in general. This is only one part of the statement issued by the Serbian Parliament of the Dvori, which itself has been hit so many times by various types of media labels, the silence of malice. Similar inconveniences were shared by members of the Fatherly Movement Obraz, Organization 1389, and all these people are classified as "hooligans" only because they are very clear and declaratively acknowledging that they are Serbian nationalists and patriots. Between the concept of "cheers" and "hooligans" cannot possibly stand the signs of equality. I will point out this to you, citing only some of the actions that Delije has done for Kosovo and Metohija since 2000. The first action, which was before the elections in which Dr Vojislav Kostunica was elected, took five people to the village of Priluže, 15km from Pristina, taking the enclaves school supplies. The second action, in the villages of Suvo Grlo and Banja, is again two enclaves with several hundred souls and mostly older people, has taken 100 sacks of flour from preserved food to people. The third action, the village of Batuse, was famous for not having had electricity for a very long time, taking clothes, food, and at the request of the inhabitants of this village, the club sent star uniforms. Two concerts were also held at Marakana, where it was collected from tickets of a few tens of thousands of euros and, of course, all income went to monasteries in Kosovo and Metohija. At the Star games – Bayern and Star – Bolton cards were sold in the package and the agreement was to increase the price of tickets by 50 dinars, so that 3,760,000 dinars were collected, three times 400,000 of which went to Zociste, Archangel and Deep Stream, 1,200,000 people's cuisine in the village of Prekovce, which leads to the attack of Svetlana, then the kitchen was put out, and now four were made. So there are a number of decisions and a series of actions that Delije has made, and not only Delije, but also many fans who are actually gathered in the humanitarian organisation "Serbia for Serbs" and who, despite some club irreconcilability, have found it common interest to help vulnerable Serbs and citizens of Serbia, throughout the Balkans. So, not only in Serbia, but also in Republika Srpska and Montenegro. In that name, I think it is good to inform you that the public, the part of the public who sees fans exclusively as hooligans, informs me that a charity concert will be held in Delija on Friday, January 15, at 19.00 p.m., at the Russian House Hall in Belgrade, with the aim of raising funds for the restoration of the monasteries of the Virgin Mary Brainska. In agreement with our football club, at the match against Slavija from Prague, a significant contribution has already been collected from 1,483,600 dinars served to the brotherhood of the monastery. The monastery is otherwise located in the municipality of Medvedja, on the administrative line of separation of Cosmet from the Serbian border, the 14th-century responsibility of St. Uroš, which he gave to the Russian St. Pantelemon monastery after construction. Gentlemen, especially the government gentlemen, you have quite solid receipts, since the number of tickets is limited to 400, the sale will start on Monday, 21st in the Butik Delija on the western side of the Maracana, as well as in the Russian House, at the cost of 1,000 dinars. Go and buy that circulation. That's what you can do and realize that this must not be organized by hooligans and criminals, but by true fans.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34907	National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) To Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Dusan Maric submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34908	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill prohibits fans from going from one part of the stands to the part of the stands where opposing fans, fans of the opposing club, are allowed in the course of the game. I have submitted an amendment to ban the crossing of fans from one part of the theatre, from one part of the stands to any other part of the stands. Indeed, it is incomprehensible for me that the government has not accepted this amendment. In the west, on whose principles you keep calling, a fan must sit in his seat. Entering the stadium, you know exactly which passage he enters, sits in his seat, and can only come out the same way he came to that seat. What will a fan sitting in the southern part of the stands, among the Partizan fans, look for in the western part of the stands, where the Partizan fans also find themselves? He needs to skip one fence that is two - foot [2 m] high. He's not going there with good intentions. He's going there to make some kind of bleach. The second thing, this transition even poses a danger to the fans themselves, especially in a situation where games are played in damp weather, when it snows, when it rains, because the fence is slippery and can cause self-inflictedness. So there is absolutely no reasonable reason for this amendment not to be accepted. I'll only comment on one more provision. Here under violence, misbehaving is envisaged damage to sports facilities, equipment, devices, installations, sports facilities where sports events are held, rioting, destruction of property, and so on and so on. But what's interesting is that it's been omitted to indicate that under violence and misbehavior it means destroying fans' assets. So one fan can destroy another fan's property, by this law, it's not violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34909	National MP Dragan Zivkov submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The word is Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34910	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Ministers, the Government's representatives, namely, the fact that we all agreed here that one such law is Serbia and it is necessary. We agreed with the fact that Serbia already has such a law and we do not understand that within two years this law becomes completely anachron. In fact, this law is passed for one simple reason, because it is a great pressure from a public media house, and that is why we are changing today's law on misbehaving at sports events. I would remind you that two years ago, Minister Jocic presented the basic Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events, the majority of parliamentary groups and those who are in position and opposition said the law is extremely good, that the law is pro-European and that the law, if applied, is also good for Serbia. We didn't understand why the law was complemented by the Ministry of Justice, not the Ministry of the Interior, and therefore there was no place for the Ministry of Sports for the task force, which could have contributed to the addition of this law. What I've come forward for is an amendment to Article 4, where we want to clearly specify certain things. Article 4 paragraph 1 states that under violence and misbehavior at sports events within the meaning of this law it is considered particularly, and we have asked to change point 10) which reads – wearing jokes, hats or other objects in order to hide the identity of the person.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34911	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34912	At first, I have to say that I totally agree with my colleague, Pejcic, imagine those fans who at temperatures of minus 2 to minus 10 and go alike without jokes, hats. What difference does it make that they have a cheerleading mark? What's in Article 5? I asked to delete the word – entrepreneurs, because it is about changes and additions to the existing Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior in Sports Events, and I believe that this law is not bad at all and it was not a particular need to change, but when you need to do so, I think it is very important to define precisely all new concepts, and this is a new concept – an entrepreneur, which practically marks a business entity and I don't really believe that it is adequate for defining a legal person who is entrusted with the affairs of physical security and maintaining order at a sports event. Or maybe that's what you're counting on, that some of the more famous entrepreneurs are going to go down, so they're going to break up with this division of the vaccine, that Miskovic might fail, so when he no longer has a corporate job at Delta, maybe he'll move on to the director's office.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34913	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34914	This is the moment that I am actually speaking on behalf of all those who want to go back to games where there will be no aggressive outbursts and at which there will be no particularly those elements, as it is said, put in place and who are in charge of it end up with an unfavourable outcome, which preferably go into the world so that Serbs will simply be accused again as a people who are collectively aggressive and genocide, that on behalf of all these people who have a very similar attitude, and I believe that of 100% of people who go to games of 95 such people. There's no hooligans here. These are fans who are in the interest of both their club and the country they love and believe in being shown in the best possible edition. So I'd have to ask a few questions. As the first question that I think is not insignificant at all, and what actions do these authorities point to is the question – since when is patriotism banned in Serbia, because it is obvious that someone has authorized NGOs, intellectuals and media to deal with the affairs that prosecutors, judges, should be doing? Practically state ministries act on the orders of these so-called so-called so-called State Departments. intellectuals and media, completely forgetting that the basic principle of democracy is the division of power and independence of three types of government, legislative, judicial and executive. The problem with us is that actually the government has one single person, because it can't multiply and release virtual projections, it brings similar people. Will there really be charges for more than half a million people who participated in the myths involved in the practical preservation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the state, the myths that could be called the promotion of the Constitution or the support of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34915	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 which adds Articles 8a and 8b. Article 8a discusses the duty of directorship in sports competitions. Article 8b refers to the authorising officer to use physical strength. I don't think this is a good solution. Physical power can be applied by the public order authority, and that's the police. If the directors are allowed to exercise physical strength in sports events, it can be a good basis for abuse of the directorial service, which may again affect the outcome of a competition such as the one that is being used. Prognostication of visiting contestants and fans. Of course, I do not dispute the rights of the director to self-defense by applying physical force, as well as any citizen who has been attacked. Reddar can't take over as a cop. He can only assist him. Suppose the officer applies physical strength in trying to deter a group of hooligans or individuals, physically stronger than him, to enter some forbidden props into a sports event. The answer to that would be a hooligan attack on the director. In this case, the officer is forced, not authorized to defend himself physically. Of course, he will draw a thicker end because he dared to oppose a group that acts under the influence of mass psychology where procedures are out of narrowed control or with narrowed control, without mental brakes and thus provoked by the use of physical force by the monks. You'll do bad service to the directors if you don't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34917	Thank you, Mr. Popovic. I have a nice pleasure and a role to play on your behalf, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, and on behalf of the present representatives of the Government, Minister of Justice, to all citizens of Serbia who celebrate Christmas on the Gregorian calendar, to congratulate this great Christian holiday with the desire to spend holidays in family peace, prosperity and personal happiness. Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34918	And we from the SRS join these congratulations. In line with my other colleagues, I also submitted an amendment requesting that the words "or misbehave" be deleted. When we take that as a fact that the terms presented in this proposal for the law of the basic hole that will abuse both the judges and the police, we have one logical question to ask at all, what is this term - misbehaving. Is that rude? Indecent? Could be unacceptable behavior, etc. Is there even a definition in this bill that defines misbehavior when we have the opposite of sanctioning improper behavior? What is defined by this bill, and as shown in Article 12 or Article 15, relating to the previous draft of the law, is the term used and, in fact, refers to the unlawful conduct of the persons to whom a measure has been imposed. So when you take this term - unlawfully and when you take the illogical term proposed in the bill itself, and that is a lack of behaviour, it is clear that the Government's proposal and explanation that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that it is legally-technically inadequate is a totally missed item. Consider, too, that it is defined what applies to violations of public order and peace, and that there is a law that defines exactly what public order and peace is. That's why this term that I mentioned here, which is illegal behavior, should have an advantage over that term that can be interpreted as a cop or a judge's answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34919	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Jankovic. After the previous amendment? Sure, you have a word, ma'am...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34920	Chairman, this is your second yellow card. You managed to skip me again. There is an amendment to Article 6 that I have submitted, where point 1 in point 1 is deleted from the words "or from their behaviour it can be concluded that they are prone to violent and inappropriate behaviour".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34921	I'm sorry, this time you made a mistake. You had your word. Consult this...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34922	I didn't have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34923	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34924	I didn't. There's no transmission, so people have no way of checking it out. What's a fact, you're going to check in the delay video. The fact is, you didn't read me, but you went straight to article 7. I've been looking forward to this article, that is, this amendment. What do we do now?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34925	I remain with myself that you have spoken of the amendment that you have submitted to Article 6.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34926	To Article 6?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34927	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34928	No, I don't. I didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34929	It's perfectly safe. I've also consulted the service. So, I'm sorry. We are moving on to Article 7 on the amendment tabled by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34930	Now that I've talked about that amendment, as you say, I'm going to talk about it again. In fact, what is very important is that this new law provides that directorial services not only have police authority, according to counterpart Zoran Popovic, but have some kind of authority that would be part of the work of psychologists and psychiatrists, means psychodiagnostics. I really don't know how the directorial services can have professional competences to diagnose such subtle psychological categories as one's inclinations. A team before it was precisely defined what is meant by misbehaving. Tell me what kind of supervisors these are and what kind of education requires a man from the first impression to determine whether a person is prone, less prone or less prone to improper behavior. Such a provision not only prevents aggressive outbursts and violence, but can intensify the tension that would exist between the directorial services and the cheerleading groups, so as to give the directorial services the authority to both flat-rate and subjective, and perhaps, by someone's order, assess the similarity of fans to attend the sports event. That, Mr. Chairman, was the text relating to Article 6(1), point 1, of the amendment that you claim I submitted, which I did not.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34931	Thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I apologize, by amendment Mrs. Jankovic Mr. Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34932	We said at the outset that this law brought great attention to the general public and to us MPs. When it comes to this amendment to Article 6, which Mrs Jankovic and Mr Popovic spoke of, we must also meet the citizens of Serbia that this provision has been prescribed from English legislation and that I do not know how it can be applied to us. Namely, what is the newspaper in this law is that the legislator made it possible for the organizer to be the one who provides the actual security service that will be present at the stadium. This service must be certified by the MUP. If that security service exceeds some limits and uses force, it should be written to inform the organizer, and he by written means to inform the MUP. I'm afraid this mechanism isn't well worked out. We also talked about this on the Youth and Sports Committee, where Mr. Cosic and State Secretary Homen were. We agree, however, that this is something that still needs to be resolved by some sublegal acts. It takes some time to pass so the security service has to play along with the MUP. For these reasons, we appeal to the Minister and to the Government's representatives to accept this amendment, as I said, is not a sufficiently elaborated mechanism in which the security services will act, how they will isolate individuals, if so far the police have not been able to respond to their problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34933	Two minutes and 10 seconds of MP time have been spent. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34934	Mr. Chairman, I just have one little problem finding that member. So what's interesting is that I've been studying these forums and I've seen young people comment on these laws the following way. The law was clearly written by people who didn't work physically, even that. Watch what's scheduled. In Article 9(1), point (2) is replaced by the following: As many times as I've been to games, I haven't seen a lot of people like to cheer sitting around. I don't think it's necessary to change the provisions of the existing law. I have so much suggested that the amendment reads "to ensure that only numbered tickets for seating seats, i.e. the number of standing tickets, which, depending on the capacity of the sports facility, do not endanger the safety of participants in the sports event". Realising the safety of participants in sports events is not a matter of sitting or standing, but of good organisation and effective law enforcement. Of course, as you have done, I wish on my own personal behalf and on behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group to all who celebrate Christmas on a new calendar I wish a happy Christmas Eve bigger and Christ is born!
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34935	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 10. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34936	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill prohibits the resale of tickets. I have submitted an amendment proposing that the ban on ticket sales be added the following words: "at a price higher than the price at which tickets were bought by the organizers of the sports event". What did I do this for? I'll give you a hypothetical example. According to this law, seven tickets are allowed. It may happen that an average family in Belgrade buys seven tickets, say for the Yugoslav national football game, and that seven tickets are paid by 10,000 dinars. It may also occur that in the meantime certain circumstances arise that make it impossible for family members to observe the game. I don't see any reason why these people wouldn't be allowed to buy their tickets honestly and sell, but only at a price that's not higher than the purchase price, from which they paid the sports director. It's a well-known thing that ticket reselling has been a big business so far. Individuals bought several thousand tickets, and later reselled them at higher prices. However, accepting this amendment would make it impossible, and a fair solution would be adopted that would allow people who bought tickets and could not attend matches to be damaged. If this amendment is accepted, no one can earn, no one is damaged, and the place on the tribunes that the tickets are bought will not remain empty, which is in the function of a full experience at the sports event, at the sports game. So it would be ensured that the seats on the stands are not empty.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34937	A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34938	We really wanted to eliminate one of the many absurdities in this law by eradicating the need for prosecutors and judges to be in the stadium, in special rooms, special cameras, their notary who would be present, the rooms where they would catch and take someone who had smuggled past such a trained directorial service, to enter the stadium. Why? We don't need to devalue the role of judge and prosecutor, because it's simple, if we want so much to turn sporting events into a theater, according to Article 8a, we can, when the director's already bringing some naughty fan into his seat and planting it, just legally commit him to sitting in his seat and not getting up, or replacing him with some place, to cheer him up, to jump. We can also start by scanning a nice document when he buys tickets, so we know he's responsible for one, two, or seven people, and we eliminate a lot of costs. Let's also say we brought in the prosecutors and the judge. They've got a field checkup, I don't know what height, probably from the President's Lodge, they all see it well up ahead, up and around. The cameras help them and bring them a wrongdoer. They listen to him, punish him, speed, warning. In that time, someone can put out a fire on a living man. How's he gonna see that? If his role is to see, then he's a witness. It's illogical again. Why do we devalue the role of these people who have a clearly defined place in the justice system? This is an entirely demagogue view of the need of society to at this time, I do not know what motivated it, to show that it is cruel to riots, which it really has grounds and under other applicable laws to punish when they are found as such, because there are ways to establish the relevant riots, without expanding this single vulgarised manner of the presence of judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34939	The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34940	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the "Forward Serbia" SNS Group believes that the ban on the consumption of alcoholic beverages outside sports facilities is in this form as the legislator predicted inapplicable for a number of legal and practical reasons. The restriction on the owners of shops and catering facilities to sell alcoholic beverages over a certain period is to restrict the company whose freedom is, I will remind you, guaranteed by Article 83. The Constitution, which can only be limited for the reasons provided for in the Constitution. If by any chance that was allowed, the owners would have to pay off the damages. Who would determine the level of damage? Whose obligation would it be to pay for the damage? Would this be the obligation of local self-government or the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or would that damage have to be paid by the sports club, although we all know very well what financial situation sports clubs are in? There are also significant problems in determining the area of the entities to which the prohibition and application is being made, since it is not defined how the prescribed distance is determined from one km, or 300 meters, because it is not defined whether it is an air line or whether it is defined by the type of traffic. It has also not been established whose obligation is to mark or mark the ban zone and to inform the owners of shops and catering facilities to be located in the restricted zone. In addition, it should be defined which point is the distance from entering the stadium or from the line of the cadastrian plot on which the stadium itself is located. Of course, problems are multiplicated for restaurants within a mile of more sports facilities, which in large cities such as Belgrade, Novi Sad or Nis, is not rare. In doing so, owners should be informed in a reliable manner about the time of the event, whose beginning and ending differ depending on whether they have been declared high-risk events, as it is certainly not possible to require local owners to keep records when a game has started, whether extensions have been played. All that is stated for the owners of the shop is even more relevant to the citizens who do not even participate in the event, and the ban on this disputed decision also applies to them. By consistent application of Article 18, any citizen who consumes alcoholic beverages in the forbidden zone, even in his own backyard, could be punished and could be hit by this law. In order for this provision to be applied in a way that does not violate the right, all citizens to whom the ban applies should be informed and the prohibition zone marked so that the citizens entering it may not be warned of the prohibition. These reasons are not only a theory, because individual cases have already been recorded that the arrested and punished citizens who consumed alcohol in a one-mile zone had nothing to do with the game and fans, nor knew about the games at all. That is why I urge you to accept the SNS amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34941	One minute and ten seconds of Parliament time. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic and Aleksandar Pejcic. There's no answer for word. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34942	Article 13 prohibits the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages in a sports facility and within a mile of it in Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis, Novi Sad, and in other places up to 300m during a sports event. I suggested my amendment to make an exception, which is that the ban on selling does not apply to legal persons dealing with the wholesale liquor trade. I'll give you an example. In the Great Plan of the FK "Morava" playground within 300 metres and 300 meters of the only sports hall in the Great Plana there are several large shops, which are engaged, among other things, in the sale of alcoholic beverages. The situation is similar in most Serbian cities. Small towns, 1-2 km across, there's a sports hall, almost every day that sports hall is occupied. It's where the games are played. This isn't about big and small games, it's all about sports. So if this law is applied, those stores will have to stop working. If you multiply the number of cities in Serbia by three or four or five stores located in this diameter, that means that several thousand stores, if this law is applied, will have to stop working. If this law will not be applied, it should not be passed. I really don't see any reason why this amendment would not be accepted. So, sales and consumption of alcoholic beverages to individuals, groups, retail sales are prohibited, but when it comes to large suppliers, there is no reason why they do not regularly do their jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34943	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34944	With my amendment, I suggested that the law be complemented by a ban relating to an attempt to enter an object that maintains a sporting objection to fire or cold weapons. The government rejected the amendment, explaining that the carrying and use of firearms was regulated by another law. I think it's a pointless, unacceptable explanation for the reasons that other legal solutions are regulated and some other violations that are also regulated by this law. I'll give you some examples. There is a law that prohibits public order and peace violations, there are also legal regulations that prohibit fighting in public places, destroying other people's property, endangering people by using pyrotechnic means, obstructing public objections and sports competitions, etc. So, according to this argument of the government, this bill, these changes, should not have been adopted or proposed. I simply find it pointless to adopt a law against violence on sports objections, to predict it all the way to the point, not to provide for a ban on entering firearms and cold weapons into facilities where sports objections are held.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34945	Thank you, Mr. Maric. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the proposing's representative want to give the final word? Yeah. ) The word has a minister, Mrs Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34946	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to give you the answers to today's session. As I said in my previous presentation, this is a law that needs to give some final act if there is any misbehaving at sports events. He's not something that needs to be largely prevented from these acts, but he needs some other social factors, primarily I mean education and education, but I certainly think he's going to help this monster get in the way. Unfortunately, we have had negative experiences in the previous months, with this in mind I believe that in a comprehensive way this provision of the bill will give authority to state authorities and sports clubs to show up which I will not call fans, but I will call them hooligans, so that is the answer to some discussion by the MPs that this is a state account with cheerleading groups. The state has nothing against cheerleading groups, and I'm a fan myself, but it certainly has against hooligans and extreme behavior that they do. The question was asked why there were no representatives of the Ministry of Sports or the Ministry of the Interior, that is, why the MUP is not a legislator. I will remind you, in my discussion in principle and pointed out, that the Ministry of Justice prepared these laws on the basis of the obligation and conclusion of the National Security Council and that various state bodies were consulted, certainly the MUP. The bill was found at the Council for the Prevention of Violence, chaired by the Prime Minister, whose members are both interior minister and sports minister. In the end, the draft law was delivered to those ministries which gave an opinion on the text. We can say that this is not only a proposal from the government, but also from the ministries that are treating this area have participated in its creation. The law is not our wetlands, but we have consulted the experiences of the countries that have come into play with this phenomenon, primarily England and France, so that certain solutions that are in it are exactly the solutions that have affected these countries to stand in the way of it. What we can see today in sports competitions in this country is that parents come with children and there is no fence. It's something that we're trying to do, and this government and this country have the determination to do it. I am deeply convinced that we will get your support, because as I said, that we would care for the path to this phenomenon must involve different actors in society, especially those who make up political life in this country. I thank all of you who participated in the discussion and who contributed to improving the text of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-24-0.u34947	We thank you for your patience. I conclude the review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This is the end of today's work. We'll continue our work on December 28th, Monday, 10:00 p.m., according to the next point, I think it's number nine. Spend a nice weekend in peace and continue with the same quality and constructive work. Thank you very much for your cooperation.
