ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30755	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 119 MPs attend the session. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 91 MPs are present in the hall and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milica Radovic, Dejan Radenkovic, Sasa Dujovic, Dr Nikola Krpić and Bojan Kostreš. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the proposing representatives, Verice Kalanovic, Minister of National Investment Plan, Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Dr Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education and Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, called for the members to attend also Vesna Kovac, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Zoran Martinović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Milica Drazic, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, Igor Vukonjanski, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, Dejan Radulović, from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and Zeljko Čurguz, senior adviser at the Republic Secretariat of Law. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE DETERMINATION OF THE MOUNTAINING OF THE MEXIMAL MANAGES IN THE REPUBLIC ADMINISTRATIVE (the follow-up in particular) Does anyone else want to talk about an amendment to the name of the bill? (No) We move to Article 1, where the amendment, together, was submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Pejcic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30756	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear ministers, we are pleased to see you in this assembly, because last time we interrupted the meeting because the government had no rapporteur for these laws. In fact, Mr. Obradovic, we warned Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, when he was here as a minister who was reporting in front of the government, that the law was very bad, that he was discriminatory, inhuman, that he was anti-constitutional, that he was deaf to. Then we offered him two solutions. One solution was to withdraw this law from the assembly procedure, because this law was meant to pass a new public debate, a new social dialogue with the unions, and with representative unions, who tried to amend the law. The second variant was to accept our amendments. We have through the form of the amendment offered one other law, another concept of law, a new title of law, and I think it is much more humane, more correct and that this law and how it suits the workers. We have proposed an amendment to Article 1 and requested that we delete the words in point 1: "total maximum number", i.e. to change them in words: "the procedure of determining the maximum number". This is a causal and consequential relationship with Article 2, which studio and analytically determines how the number of workers in the Republic administration should be determined. Given that the amendment is correct, that it is good, we expected the Government to accept this amendment because, as I said, and how it corrects the essence of the law, especially that Article 1 in point 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30757	Thank you. On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30758	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the reason I came forward is an explanation that the Government rejected this amendment, a very high-sense explanation, in which, among other things, it states that it is not opportunized to limit the number of agencies. It was announced at a certain political moment that the government is forming a senseless agency, which today has over a hundred, but at a time when we need to deal seriously with public spending restrictions, the government of the Republic of Serbia has not been able to reduce the number of public agencies. You know the principled position of the SRS, and we have always insisted that the state should not form parallel state institutions. This will be discussed a little bit later by counterpart Lidija Dimitrijevic, and we were right to say that the control of money flows was absolutely disabled through these parallel state institutions. It shows us, above all, and gives us the right to the fact that we have recently adopted the Budgetary System Act. Namely, when the Budgetary System Act was adopted, one of the reasons was that it was necessary to make a consolidated account, whose frameworks will be entered by all those who are beneficiaries of the budget, because there are bodies, or agencies, which are established by the budget, or by means of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but today the money flows through these bodies, or the agencies can't control anyone, so the finance minister went on to admit that today there are bodies in Serbia that go through 130 billion dinars per year of state money and that the state can't enter cadida flows and where is the money. These days, a new amendment to the Budgetary System Act should be introduced into the procedure and is not the essence of the problem, when it comes to public spending, only the number of employees in public agencies and other regulatory bodies, the essence of the problem was in public procurement, in tenders, in various commissions, in projects envisaged through these agencies and through these regulatory bodies, as the state itself indicates both in the public and in these discussions. The day before yesterday, I read the results of the budget inspections and there is no body, from local to state level, to which irregularities were found in the business of budgetary resources without being mentioned or insisted on the point that procurement procedures of public goods and services were not conducted in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. That is why we believe that it is not only linearly enough, or however you will, and we will talk about it later, we will limit the number of employees, because they are not the biggest problem when it comes to public agencies or other republican bodies; there is definitely a need to limit the number of agencies, because it will essentially reduce wasteful public spending. On the other hand, the SRS considers that they should be abolished, if not for the other reason, then because of the fact that they did nothing in return, that is, in no segment of their functioning, the majority of them did not justify their purpose of existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30759	Miss Natasa Jovanovic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30760	I refer to Article 31. Rules of Procedure, Madam President. I don't think you hurt the Rules of Procedure on purpose, because you didn't get one piece of information from the service I want to give right now, perhaps it hurt the dignity of the Assembly, which concerns an important event in Serbia, and for us parliamentarians, and for those of us who cultivate friendly traditions with the Russian brotherly people. In fact, at 12 o'clock, the New Cemetery will avenge the monument to Russian soldiers I'm lighting in World War I. The act of revenge will be carried out by the Metropolitan of the Montenegrin-Primarine Amphilochy, the envoy of Russian patriarch Kiril and Mr Filaret. I think it was necessary for you to express the continuity of what you have at least declared, by the presence of Mr. Medvedev in Serbia, to want close and friendly ties with our brotherly Russia, to take a break in the meeting of the Assembly in order to show who the MPs who really want to cultivate this friendship are and to attend to his Excellency, Ambassador Konuzin, to show that we are brothers by faith, by fighting for freedom in these difficult times for our countries and for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30761	Ms. Jovanovic, I don't think there are any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, because the injury refers to the very course of the session. But the information you have provided can serve all MPs who want to, and I suppose it will be those who have a duty and a desire to do so. Parliament, or the work of the plenary session, cannot be interrupted because of all the jubilee and, not slow, very significant events. So, whoever wants to, they can leave. On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30762	We have submitted an amendment to Article 1, which reads to add the text in Article 1, paragraph 3, of the following content: ''A list of organisations which are considered public agencies established under the law governing the position of public agencies, as well as organisations to which rules on public agencies apply, is an integral part of the law. Public agencies, within the meaning of this law, are also considered the Directorate of the Civil Aviation of the Republic of Serbia and the Aviation Control Agency d.o.o. The reason we gave the Government for this amendment is that it is the only and only way that the Government can show responsibility for citizens, according to the republican administration and the spending of the republican budget, to convince us that it has a list of organisations in which it intends to apply this law. I am convinced that the Government has no record of the organisations it intends to apply this law, because in regulations, which it proposes to introduce at this session, the public register of employees, but not the self-registration of these organisations, through this law, or through the Act on the Classification of Activities, which, by nature, by the way it is applied in the world, as it has recently applied to us, would have to exist. What am I based on this claim? Among other things, and the way the government promoted this law, calling it – reducing bureaucracy at the republican level. Under bureaucracy, it is unlikely that the increased number of state secretaries for each area, assistant, deputy ministers, who at the height of the salary, are burdened by the budget and by contributing to the quality of government work, are the first to start reforming the state administration. I say, not to determine the maximum number of employees in the republican administration, but to reform the public administration. That the government has no concept, that it does not behave responsibly against this request, speaks the answer it sent to the MPs by rejecting this amendment. It is said that an amendment cannot be accepted, because if such a list, which would be a contribution to this article, or law, would be established as an obligation, then, when any new agency is set up, it would have to amend this law. I wonder who wrote this answer. The government has a list of direct and indirect budget users and publishes it in the Official Messenger and does not change the Budget Law every time it sets up someone new, for example, that expert body for advice in agriculture, which is established, in me, a very unusual way, even, I say, beyond the law, because nowhere in the Business Society Act is foreseen that the Government can establish a limited liability shareholder society. So this answer is simply incorrect. I repeat, you do not change the Budget Law when you provide funds from the budget reserve to create a new direct or indirect budget user. Furthermore, for the Directorate and the Agency, which we specifically underlined, not because we like something or don't like it, but because they have huge resources, which are measured back four years by billions of euros, from charged overflights, charged services to which the state is not paid VAT, and because this job is done on behalf of the State, and because that amount of funds is beyond the budget, past controls and with an entirely dark and non-transparent way of making available, you say that adoption of this amendment, where the Directorate and the Agency would be listed, meant that we would do something contrary to internationally assumed obligations and accepted standards concerning the automatic determination of the required number and structure of employees in the area of air traffic security. Dear gentlemen of the government, who do you think you're going to overshadow with a dictionary like this? The internationally recognised contracts, which you are calling upon in the text itself, are from 1944 and 1960. The flight control agency, i.e. the Directorate, 2003, when it was established, had 30 employees. There are 120 of them today. Internationally recognised standards from 1944 and 1960 have not changed. How could you increase the number of employees four times? Based on what you're calling for? Why are you bringing citizens and MPs into a state of wonder whether you have a basic logic, or whether you lack a basic respect for those to whom you make such arguments? Internationally recognised standards say the security of the sky must be ensured. No one's saying how many contractors that job needs to work with. No one says how a body that cares about safety is to be established and very different practices are in the nearest environment and countries in the world as this body is founded and operated. The call for EUROCONTROL is ridiculous and not even in line with the answers that the Ministry of Finance has already given to the illegal availability of funds. So someone who deals with the security of the sky in Montenegro is part of the Air Traffic Ministry and can be so organized. No one says that it should be a special body, and no responsible state ever thinks of leaving such funds out of its reach and control, because in the event of a failure in that security, the state is directly responsible and should compensate for the damage. From what means would she do so if she had no control over this organization? The government goes into inconsistencies, giving answers to these questions; since in such organisations you are unable to control the level of wages, or the number of employees, you are calling for an international contract. When we tell you -- come on, show it, let's see where it's ratified, you say -- no, it's not an international contract, it's a convention. The 1944 and 1960 conventions are not the basis for illegal spending, illegal employment, because no one asks the Serbian state to hire 120 people in the Directorate and to have salaries higher than your ministerial, three to four times, and that you represent yourselves here as a thrifty and serious government, which is trying to limit the number of people employed in the administration. Simply, this Article 1 and the way you avoid defining the register of organizations over which you must, by nature of things, have control, you show that you are a government that has no intention, opportunity or desire to do the job for which it has been chosen. The rejection of this amendment is the best proof of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30763	On Article 2, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30764	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the DSS Group has tabled a series of amendments that we propose that this become a law on the procedure of determining the maximum number of employees in the republican administration. Namely, in the draft law submitted by the Government to the Assembly, there were number 28,400, without any explanation and, in our opinion, completely flat-rate, without any analysis and criteria of the number of employees needed in the Republic administration, so we proposed that our amendments be established to determine the procedure for determining the number of employees. This amendment to Article 2, which we have proposed a completely new Article 2, is a key amendment in a whole series of our amendments, and we have proposed in it, clearly defined the procedure for identifying the maximum number of employees, so that all authorities of the state administration, public agencies and organisations are obliged to deliver the systematisation of government posts within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this law. The government would then form a commission, where union representatives would necessarily be represented, and based on real needs and analysis, identify the actual number, i.e. the necessary number of employees in the republican administration. This would be delivered to the National Assembly and would have to be found on the Assembly agenda no later than 30 days after delivery. So we have clearly defined the deadlines in this article, and very short deadlines, in order to be effective in this process. The DSS is fully aware and supports the need to streamline the state administration, i.e. to obtain an efficient, cheap state administration and administration, which will work in the interests of citizens, but in order to do so properly, it is necessary to carry out a specific analysis, establish clear criteria and establish that number. This is done on a flat-rate basis, no analysis whatsoever. Even the minister, when explaining the bill, said the number could have been smaller, which says there are no clear criteria. What's interesting is that it's an explanation of the government that doesn't accept this amendment, where it's said that this isn't effective, that it's complicated. That's not true, we in the amendment predicted extremely short deadlines. So within 15 days to deliver the systematicisation, within 30 days to pass that law. I urge you to accept these amendments in order to do a very important job properly for the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30765	Thank you. The word is Mr. Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30766	Mrs. Kalanovic, I know that you wanted this procedure, I think of you, your party and everyone there who came up with this beauty of the law, to simplify and I know that you wanted to fire some of the people you imagined by beating it all up over your knees and throwing it out on the street, with cancellations that have a very simple formulation behind them, through the grade – it doesn't satisfy, and goodbye, to satisfy someone else's interest, and finally your own. You can't function as a state, you can't function in your economy, because you're not doing anything to save her. Your budget's not working. The government did not send the budget to the National Assembly through rebalancing, although it had to do so, although it continuously penetrates the limit set for spending on funds from the budget, when it comes to funds that can be spent beyond the limit. So you just don't have any concept when it comes to economics, you don't have any concept when it comes to state administration, or we've ever heard or seen it. You never came before this assembly to expose what it is that needs to be done by the state administration to make it more effective. How is it possible that you came up with the idea that you should fire 2,800 workers in one drink and tell us that this is the measure that will solve all the problems in our country when it comes to administration? Is it possible that you think anyone is that naive? It's extremely cochlean-cut. If you were smart, as you weren't, you would accept this amendment, which in a very simple way suggests how you should get to the number of employees that should be extra. Only when such a procedure is applied as proposed in this amendment, which is to first make proposals for the systematicisation of jobs by the Heads of State, to tell us what their real needs are, and then to educate the Commission by the Government in which representatives of the relevant trade unions will participate, and then to make a proposal for a law on the maximum number of employees and instructions to the National Assembly for consideration, that a session be held within a very short period of time and on which that law would be passed would be established, i.e. a total, or maximum number of employees in the state administration. What you're doing, it's a kind of violence against innocent people, which serves to justify your position in front of the IMF, because they don't care what you do, or how you do it, but do something. You need to incasate something in that register, and you have done it in this way, which is very cruel, and in the end, when it is realized through the release of people, it will be by political criteria, Mrs Kalanovic, not by some independent or objective criteria, because I like this one, I do not like this one. Because when you can't complain about the grade -- it doesn't satisfy you, when the administrative dispute isn't worth anything to you, because the administrative dispute is not about the essence of the matter, but only about the form, then we're done protecting employees' rights and we're in the field of absolute tyranny.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30767	On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30768	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law, which, for the sake of the public, should be called the real name, which is the law on the new nearly 3,000 layoffs, and this next one, which will be on the agenda, another 7,000 layoffs in the state or local administration, is actually DOS fluid. I must remind, first of all, that when you burned down the National Assembly in 2000, when you seized state institutions and public enterprises with crisis headquarters and long weapons, you found about eight thousand employees in the state administration, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, gentlemen of the regime. Then all the governments that changed, to this day, increased the number of employees, obviously, not on the basis of the real need, but on the needs of the municipal committees, above all, the DS and the G17 Plus parties. When we talked about these laws in principle, Mr Dragan Todorovic gave some concrete examples of how many new people have been employed in the period since these laws were in the assembly, and before that to the government procedure, how many current competitions are still in place where you intend to hire your people, and in return you will be able to share your resignations. It is also important to know that all of you from the government all the year before, that is, this year, as you announced a reduction in the number of employees in the republic and local administration, you said there were about 28 000 employees in the republican administration. Now, in the light of the bill's proposal, you said that there are 30,624 employees in the Republic administration and that you plan to bring that number down to 28,400 employees. We are not sure that this data is correct, because both come from the government's representatives and the question for any of you, the government's representative, today is – what is the actual number of employees in the republican administration today? If this number is of 30,624, then it is a question – why did you deceive Serbian citizens that it was 28,000 employees? However, the best answer to this question should be given by the finance minister, because the bill, in Article 8, provides for the supervision of the application of this law to be carried out by the finance ministry. The bottom line of this law is that you, uncritically, fire in the republican administration over 2,000 employees and you don't care that in most cases it will be people who are already 20 or 30 years of work experience, who won't be able to find a job elsewhere, who may be the only family employee, so, with these two laws, you will actually increase the number of social cases in Serbia. You're going to increase that figure of 700,000 people living below the minimum of existence and you're going to increase, unfortunately, and the number of 300,000 children who don't have a third meal. These are data coming from your government, data coming from the Republic Bureau of Statistics, and there is particularly the minister, who should take care of it and find solutions to at least reduce these drastic numbers. Unfortunately, ministers have become accustomed to getting public sympathy, to go public and bring problems, to say what these problems are, which have been going on for years, just as long as you are in power. You're finding a condition, but there's no solution, so in this case. It is not only a problem in the republic or local administration, you know, or citizens know, especially those to whom this applies, that these tens of thousands of people in Serbia are out of work every month. It is all the result of a poor, devastating and harmful government that is current in Serbia. In Article 2, you proposed that the total maximum number of persons employed indefinitely in the Republic administration could not be greater than 28,400. In the amendment, I suggested that this number be 28.401. Why? Because I wanted to explain the senselessness of this law and this provision that determined what the number of employees would be optimal in the Republic administration. You say - you do not accept the amendment because the solution contained in the tabled amendment is essentially not different from the solution set out in the bill, which raises questions about its purpose. Of course, it would not be a purposeful adoption, as it is not meaningful and out of mind, this is the solution set out in the proposal of Article 2 of this Law. The essence of the whole law is in the position of Article 3., which says: "The total number of employees at a certain time due to an increase in the volume of work, persons employed under the contract of work, contract of temporary and occasional jobs, through youth and student cooperatives and persons engaged on other grounds cannot be more than 10% of persons employed indefinitely in the Republic administration." What does this mean? You will now, in order to make an impression of the government that takes care of the budget, of the citizens' money, to fire over 2,000 people in the Republic administration and immediately, by means of a contract of work, on occasional or temporary transactions, based on this next member, to hire, probably, and more than that number that you will fire. The thing is, you're gonna fire people who aren't party-like to you, who don't plead party, who's probably been employed by the state administration for years, and certainly do their job well. But that's why you're bringing your party friends and friends. That's what's wrong and shouldn't be happening, because if you hadn't done that before, then you wouldn't have increased the republican administration, out of 8,000, by 30,000 by these nine years by the authorities, which seems to have been the only success that has achieved this significant increase in the republican administration and administration by local self-government. This isn't a good job. This is one big hoax, a big con from the citizens of Serbia. If you really want to help the citizens of Serbia, then make sure you open up a job. It was promised by your President Boris Tadic. Open up some industrial drive, some production plant. You hire some people, you don't just threaten to quit every day. You've put this people in a position where people don't know, when they're going to work, whether they're going to get a notice at the end of their working hours that they're not coming anymore, or eventually they're going to stay at work. This is the case both in the judiciary and in all areas. That's what we'll talk about when it's on the agenda. It was interesting to me earlier that Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic said, when she responded to Miss Natashi Jovanovic, that Parliament could not work because of the marking of each jubilee. That is fine, especially because this parliament is very often interrupted because government representatives do not want to sit in Parliament and do not want to do their job. Then it would be too much for some serious things to stop us from working. It is enough that we interrupt work because ministers do not want to sit in Parliament. The next amendment will be explained by my colleague Lydia Dimitrijevic. I can't help but mention the fact, especially as is the Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, that's not what I said last time, perhaps directly about his ministry, but it seems to me it would be good to hear that Lydia Dimitrijevic and Elena Christmas-Talijan resigned to the seats in accordance with our rules of procedure, and based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and that the Administrative Committee does not want to accept their resignations. It is obvious that the Administrative Board, and apparently has the support of both Parliament's President and Parliament's majority, divides MPs into MPs of the first and second order. I wish Mr. Konstantinovic was here, to ask him, since he's a clever lawyer, to explain, because he insists on resigning, God forbid one of us should die, because we're living people are not impossible, how is he going to ask for a personal resignation, or that someone should resign in person so that she can be accepted on the Administrative Board? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30769	Nine minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the Parliament Group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30770	The amendment submitted by the MPs of the SNS Group refers to Article 2 and Article 1 and 3 and reads in Article 2 of Item 1 of the '28,400' is replaced by the number '28,000'. In Article 2, Article 3, paragraph 4 is added, which reads as follows: "Functioners employed in the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous province and local self-government, civil servants and employees of public agencies cannot receive special fees or gifts for the performance of functions in other bodies of the Republic of Serbia or membership in the bodies of public agencies, public undertakings and other legal entities established by the Republic, an autonomous province or local self-government, except for the necessary costs. The fees may not be paid even when prescribed by the laws and other regulations adopted before the entry into force of this law. “ Interestingly, the legislator did not specify any single criterion for determining the maximum number of employees in the republican administration. Here is the question – how did the figure of 7.26% occur, or the 2,220 persons to be fired? The number of employees listed in the amendment – 28,000, is the number of government representatives, talking about the number of employees in the republican administration, and it is necessary for the Government to explain the difference between 30,624 and 28,000, as well as the method that has reached the number proposed as maximum. The main objective of the adoption of this law, according to the proposed explanation, is to reduce the expenditure on salaries and services, which will be achieved by firing 3,400 employees and by prohibiting an increase in the number of employees through the number of those laid down by this law. As applicants of this amendment, we believe that, in these conditions and for the same purpose, expenditure must be reduced for special fees paid for membership to a number of management bodies. This applies to the second part of this amendment, to Article 2(4), the new, of course, supervisory boards and other bodies of state authorities, public agencies and other legal entities whose founder is the Republic, AP, the local self-government, as this is ultimately also paid to the burden of budgets and taxpayers. The reduction in expenditure can be achieved with the highest and no adverse consequences by prohibiting people who already receive salaries on the burden of the budget, i.e. public revenues in general, from receiving special fees for membership. The number of those faces is not officially known. If it is, I'd like you to tell me. Some of them receive multi-function fees, aside from government wages, and often those funds exceed the amount that would be saved by firing those 3,400 workers. From a principled point of view, it is immoral and unwarranted that any of the states receive payments on a number of grounds, especially that the fees are in monthly amounts, independent of the degree of engagement and, in general, the fulfilment of any obligations. In addition, it is known that these obligations are mainly carried out at work, and often official vehicles are used for departures, and travel costs are charged. In such conditions, membership in organs and bodies has become a form of rewarding party personnel, not a way to ensure that certain tasks are carried out. In practice, it is also known that certain officials are proposing regulations, including laws, which provide for additional functions and prescribes the right to compensation, including guaranteed amounts, which are not rare, thus being unpunished by functions and coming into conflict of interest. If this state has decided to deprive thousands of employees, with all consequences for them and the family, it would be extremely immoral not to suspend the multiple payment of privileged individuals, who already have a much better material position than the workers who are going to lose their jobs by applying this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30771	Two minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the Parliament's group's time. Anyone else want a word? If not, Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted the amendment to Article 2. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30772	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have submitted to Article 2 represents the insistence of the SRS to stop this government from uninterruptingly setting up public agencies. Many times so far, we have said, whenever on the agenda of the National Assembly, it was the establishment of an agency, that these bodies were parallel to existing state bodies, that the work that is being put into office by agencies could be done within the existing bodies, more specifically, within their sectors, and that the establishment of agencies was a way to take care of the merited party staff of the ruling structure. In previous years, a republican administration was accumulated, and now it is said that the administration's alleged efficiency, which will be achieved by firing a number of employees at this time of the economic crisis, and not that we did not say that the state administration was too bulky, and when on the agenda of the National Assembly was the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and the Agency for Chemicals, Traffic Safety, National Agency for Regional Development, the Agency for the Protection of INS and Nuclear Safety of Serbia. These are some of the agencies that the government founded only over the past year. Authorities did not pay attention to what Serbian radicals say, and now, without a shred of conscience, it is said that by leaving someone without a job, the state administration will make themselves effective. When you are faced with amendments to the SRS that we suggest you no longer create new parallel state bodies in the form of agencies, you do not accept such amendments. You do not want to give up the opportunity to rebuild an agency in which you will take care of one of the new party personnel, to fence yourself against any restrictions, because, who knows, some new jobs may come up in Serbia's EU accession process. Where are you going to get a more European state body than a public agency? I think sometimes it's good to go back to the near past and remind myself of some interesting data. For example, interesting data has been published by the government on its website in April of insistence by the SRS directors, which refers to the profits of the directors of public agencies paid in February. We've had opportunities to hear about this already in Parliament, but it's really good to remember. This looked like this: Central Securities Register, Director-General – 355,000, Assistant Director-General – 171,000 dinars; Privatisation Agency, Director – 344,000, Deputy Director – 295,000, Executive Directors, the two, 322,000 and nine directors of the centre with 243,000 dinars. Then, Deposit Insurance Agency, Director – 322,000, Deputy Director – 257,000; Agency for Business Registers, Director – 280.000, Register of Business Entrepreneurs – 207,000, Register of Financial Lising and Deposits – 221,000; Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia, Deputy Director – 216,000. National Corporation for the Insurance of Residential Credits, Director – 239.000, Director of the Legal Affairs Sector – 155,000. Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, Director – 220,000. Commission for the Protection of Competition, President of the Commission Council – 209.000, Member of the Council – 167,000. Agency for the Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia, Director-General – 209.000, Procurist – 240.000. The Agency for the Licensing of Accountants, Director – 188,000, Deputy – 156.000. Then, Guarantee Fund, Director – 185,000; Republic Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development, Director – 166,000, Deputy Director – 126.000; Tourist Organisation of Serbia, Director – 165,000, Deputy – 138,000; Recycling Agency, Director – 161,000, Deputy – 143,000; Accreditation Body of Serbia, Director – 154,000, Deputy Director – 129.000; Foreign Investment and Promotion Agency, Director – 149.000, Deputy – 131,000; Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals, 142.000; Environment Protection Agency, Director – 139.000 dinars. There is also the Agency for Energy Efficiency, Deputy Director – 135,000; Agency for Accreditation of Health Institutes, Director – 134,000; Agency for Medicines and Medical Resources Serbia – 123,000; Action Fund of the Republic of Serbia, Director – 112.000, Deputy – 149.000; Antidoping Agency of the Republic of Serbia, Director – 97,000; Institute for Nature Protection of Serbia, Director – 71,000; Republic Spatial Planning Agency, Director who receives a third of the earnings – 43,000 and Deputy – 92,000. Then there was a temporary downsizing. A few days ago, it was announced that after 1 January 2010, this reduction would be out of force, as the law governing the temporary reduction ended on 31 December. After this announcement, we only ask ourselves whether, as of January of next year, the agency director's salary will be as high as it was, or perhaps even more, and whether it seemed to us or if someone mentioned a reduction in public spending? This reduction in public spending has been imagined by the Serbian authorities by firing a number of employees now, at a time of economic crisis, when it is impossible for these people to be hired again. It's not about a small number of people, it's about 3,400 living things. But that's not the end of it. This second bill -- setting up the maximum number of employees in the local administration, also provides for the dismissal of a large number of employees, more than 5,500 people, but there will be more words about this when the bill is on the agenda. I will finish my presentation by saying that in this high house, where laws are passed, neither the Constitution nor the laws nor the Rules of Procedure are respected. I am talking about the decision of the National Assembly's Administrative Board to refuse, without any basis, the resignations of the MPs of the SRS, my colleague and colleague Elena Christmas-Talijan, allegedly because of the absence of conditions for the termination of the term of office, not respecting this procedure by our will which is clearly expressed in those paragraphs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30773	Six minutes has been used since the MPs' time. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30774	In addition to this law, you have decided that, through political coercion and political will, you are dispersing a certain number of people who work in state authorities and organisations that are represented by state authorities, when you go to work so wrong, then the team you gather to write to you is not good and writes it sloppyly, from a legal point of view. If we compare Article 3 to Article 6, we will conclude that you are introducing an entirely new term called "engaged persons". What are “engaged faces ”? Where did you read that, where did you find it? I understand that the term "engaged persons" can be described as being used to define a situation, let's say, that you are hiring persons on the basis of a contract on work, temporary, occasional affairs, as you state here, but what are the persons involved later, in Article 6? If you use this term in Article 3 and connect it to the term in Article 6, we no longer know what persons are employed or what are engaged in. If hired persons are anything other than employees, then it turns out that what Ms. Verica Radeta was saying about 10 minutes ago is absolutely correct. You want one number of employees to fire one number, say 10%, by using harsh political and arbitrary criteria, and then keeping yourself the right to engage persons, almost in that same number, also by some other criteria: political, arbitrary, etc. Then you spill from hollow to empty. Is that the purpose of your law? Maybe.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30775	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic submitted the amendment to Article 3. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's messenger Dragomir Cimesh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30776	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law establishing the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration, where in Article 3. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30777	I apologize, MP, there is currently a search in detail on the amendment submitted by Parliamentarian Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic. Your amendment is next in line. You can talk about this amendment, if it's about the time of the MP's group, but then you need to talk about its amendment. On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragomir Cimeša. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's messenger Dragomir Cimesh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30778	As I said in the introduction, I submitted the amendment to Article 3(3) of the Law, where, after saying, “it does not apply, ” they add the words, “Republic Health Insurance Office. ” After the entry into force of the new Health Insurance Act, a reorganisation of the work of the Republic Health Insurance Institute was carried out, which has halved the number of previous medical committees and reduced to an optimal level of functioning, so that any reduction of employees and persons employed in the medical committees of the Republic of Slovenia would make it difficult to achieve the law of guaranteed health insurance rights of insured persons. The current situation in the Republic Institute is this: 124 medical committees for the territory of the Republic of Serbia have been organised, serving over 7.2 million insured persons who exercise health insurance rights, which include citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as persons who are in transit, persons who occasionally reside in the territory of our country, foreign persons employed in diplomatic and consular representations, refugees and exiled persons. The Republic Office, for the purposes of the work of the medical committees, shall have the obligation to employ 620 doctors of certain specialities provided for in the Regulation on the organisation and operation of medical committees. Only 174 doctors were employed indefinitely in the Republic Institute. The problem of the missing number of doctors from the medical boards has been overcome by hiring 273 doctors on the basis of contracts for employment. Thus, for the purpose of performing the work in the medical committees, the Republic Institute lacks another 73 doctors of certain specialities provided for in the Regulation on the organisation and operation of the medical committees. In addition to these figures, it should be added that 104 more persons perform their work in the expert commissions of the Republic Health Insurance Office. I have to say, there is no need for these forms of medical employment in other mandatory social security organisations. It should also be pointed out that the number of employees currently in the Republic Institute is 2.517, which means that 2,860 insurance workers are employed in the Republic Office. Obviously, the Republic Institute is in an unequal position in relation to other mandatory social security organisations, because without 447 specialists who have to work without establishing a working relationship, the Republic Institute could not organise the work of the medical commissions, thus making it impossible to carry out its work on the implementation of compulsory health insurance. What does that mean, I don't have to explain. The proposed amendment under the amendment will allow the operation of the Republic Institute in accordance with the legal principle of protection of the rights of insured persons and the protection of public interest, as well as a significant savings of the financial resources needed to earn employees, as there will be no need to increase the number of permanent employees in the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the existing number of employees in the working relationship will be maintained at an optimal level, which will allow for a responsible, up-to-date and quality operation of the Republic Health Insurance Office. Of which, no doubt, patients and all insured persons in the Republic of Serbia will benefit the most. So I ask the government and the National Assembly to adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30779	Since the Parliament's time, two minutes have been used. Anyone else want a word? National MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30780	I draw attention to Article 104, all in relation to Article 27. Namely, I can agree with your position, as chairman, in general, that some times mimick, hand movement and other gestures may refer, as non-verbal communication, to something that may be offensive. Right now, and you, unfortunately, don't see it very well, given the position you're sitting in, it happens by one of the government's representatives. The lady or the lady sitting next to Verica Kalanovic, who you told me about, when I approached your rostrum to call her Vesna Kovač and that the Secretary of State, since I've been sitting in the O.R., is constantly laughing, for no reason whatsoever, is making ridiculous faces to everything the MPs say, when it comes to the subject of the law. and they do it both, Verica Kalanovic to a lesser extent, but therefore the lady or the lady next to her, named Vesna Kovač, does it to a much greater extent. I don't know what they think is funny. I guess their funny subject is the law they wrote themselves. Or they think it's funny that someone here is fighting to establish law and order in the state, out of respect for the legal order that they're violating. I guess that's funny to them. I guess they think it's funny that 3,000 people are going to be out of work, and that's why the number of members of their families is at risk. Is that funny to them? If that's funny to them, let them say it's funny to them. Here, and now they're laughing. Really, what we need to show them - a finger, maybe they'll be even happier. Please, the chairman, if you act equally in all matters and in relation to all MPs and all guests who are in the National Assembly, do so always. And, remind the people that they don't do it anymore, or do something about it. Get them out of the O.R. Do something about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30781	National MP, in order to be able to determine that I have not applied Article 104, or that one of the participants of the session has violated Article 104, you would have to inexplicably explain in an explanation that anyone is laughing at you, which I honestly doubt and do not believe, and a mild smile and a smile of any kind, in any kind of activism, could hardly be a cause of insult, so there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Minister Verica Kalanovic wants a word. There's a word for Minister Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30782	Ladies and gentlemen, I deeply respect the House I am in, because I was an MP myself. I know very well the essence, the importance and jurisdiction of lawmaking and exactly what you are talking about on the one hand and on the other. I respect the MPs very much, I think they are very well prepared, that they are not malicious, that the objections they make are going in the direction of improving the law, that everything they say here in front of the public court and that is why I appreciate them. But believe me, just as you see our mummies, I see yours. I also go through Serbia and know what employment is like in local self-governments, where there is no current ruling coalition on the republican level, and these are comments that we have double arches when we are discussing as MPs. Of course, everyone is in front of a public court and each carries its own burden. I also remind you that you must be consistent. Today, you boast of the first government of Mr. Kostunica, which I think has worked well, and you ask the question why today is not talking about economic policy in the way that the government of Mr. Kostunica has done. Of course you mention G17 plus in that, and you and I both know who ran the economic policy in that government. I also ask you that when you discuss our behavior, take care of your behavior, because then we will have mutual respect. My exposure was not in the direction of making remarks and giving lessons, but in the direction of observing non-verbal communication which we both have.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30783	The word has the People's MP Milos Aligrudic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30784	All right, let's make it a straight line, even though I thought the Rules of Procedure got hurt here. If you gave me the right to a replica, which I wasn't hoping for, the right to tell you, I'll use it. Mrs. Kalanovic, non-verbal communication always exists and it happens that, as I speak, I am making some kind of mime to follow my verbal exposure in a certain way. Someone's a little stronger in that, someone's reacting a little weaker, someone likes to extort, smile and raise their eyebrows while listening to someone who talks, it's all in place. But your colleague, sitting on your left, does it all the time. I apologize to her in advance if it's a health problem, if it's a facial cramp or something that she can't control, or tick. If it's a matter of intent, then it's scandalous, that's what I'm talking about. Your smile I can understand right now, it doesn't belong to the category of that smile that I've turned your attention to for a moment. That's okay, because this kind of communication can have some justification right now, but what excuse does it have to laugh at the facts we're talking about that have to do with the bill? And those stories of what's in the local self-government, what's not in local self-government, leave it alone. You can't find too much of that DSS, and those who are mostly holding local self-government in Serbia today, that's G17 plus, with their coalition partner, majority, of course, DS. Take, comparisons for the sake of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, not the first one where you were with us, when you held some economic resources, but this previous one, where the DS, where, for example, Mr. Markovic's ministry employs 86 people, and now there are 114 of them from the moment that government stopped to this day. So stay away from that, those explanations of yours that don't lead to anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30785	People's MP, you've been given the right to a replica and the interpretation of the replica is not the subject of my instruction, but it is the gestures you give to those you address by name or non-verbal communication. So you can't ask for you understandable courtesy in gestures from others, and at the same time it's impolite to others, so this circle of replicas and remarks is over. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30786	You've just been insulting to me right now, so I'm talking about the latest violation of the Rules of Procedure you've done. You have no right to do what you do, not in the sense of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, under Rule 27, which refers to the way in which the session is held. Do not interpret my non-verbal gestures and my right to interpret someone else's non-verbal gesture as an insult. I didn't insult you, or anyone in this house, with any non-verbal gesture, and I was talking about something else, that verbal communication is often followed by certain non-verbal gestures, which don't have to be offensive, they're just like that. Do you, when you talk, stand completely still and only open your mouth? No, of course, raise your eyebrows, smile, do something. So don't start that kind of communication with me and make these kinds of loops in the National Assembly, because it's not like your place. You know very well what I pointed out when I was talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, when it comes to non-verbal gestures on the other hand and what you're talking about right now has nothing to do with it. And if you think to remind me of some non-verbal gestures that may be offensive, then, for the sake of the public, you have to specify and show exactly what I did and what insult it consists of.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30787	People's MP, in the explanation that you tried to give the chairman a violation of Article 104, to quote, that you can have insight, you say -- you can't interpret non-verbal gestures. In your first injury to the Rules of Procedure, you asked me to interpret non-verbal gestures. So make up your mind, he can't do both. Your gesture, as well as the words you have referred, can be controlled by insight into the stenogram and see that I am obliged to take care, as chairman of the session, of the agenda and of the application of the Rules of Procedure, equally for all members, including those who earn, knowing that this is the same violation of the Rules of Procedure. But if it's all for the benefit of working in the National Assembly, the good atmosphere, then we'll all take care of it together. On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Susana Grubjesic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30788	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you implement the number of amendments to this article of the law, precisely on this item 3, on which, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment, you will see that with the law something, at least in this article, if not more, is wrong. If you take into account the fact that this article and this position have been spoken by MPs, regardless of whether they belong to the position or opposition, you will see how much government has banished this and how much, essentially, she doesn't know what she would like and how she would like to do this in an adequate way. In fact, this Article 3 speaks about the total number of employees at a specified time. In our amendment, in paragraph 3, which again refers to the fact that these restrictions do not apply to, we have proposed that this section in which it is written - as well as to the engagement of persons for the translation of legal fluids - be careful – legal fluids, by the European Union Office for European Integration, be deleted. I wish you had the courage to write "translation and copying of the law from the EU" but to find a model - "legal flows". You see, this view of Article 3, in the most concrete way, as well as the reason you have stated for not accepting this amendment, speak of your perception of European integration. You who have been promoting European integration for 10 years in Serbia have reduced this to translation and copying of the law. That's what we told you a hundred times. I wish you could translate them all the way and rewrite them properly and write them down, so we don't go that far in criticism. You did not understand certain normative acts discussed in the Assembly to translate from the Croatian language, and now you bring one such serious topic into the context of copying, or translation, no less than legal flows. You have heard just before from MPs who do not belong to the opposition, this country will, because of this irresponsible and superficial approach, deny many authorities and many ministries the possibility of hiring the people they need and who would be in the capacity of the affirmation of standards in this country, not because of the EU, but because of us who live here. Now, because of this office, let's say, the Department of Planning and Construction will be denied, for planning and the environment, for hiring new people by contract. We didn't challenge what you put here - the Geodetic Institute. We've pierced your ears by telling you there's no future state without planning and without a catastrophe of immobility. It still does not have 70% of municipalities in Serbia. It's one big job, and until you get the state in that suckling done, no one's gonna make you a partner. You've got to put the walls on, so you know what's whose, whose property belongs to them. It's a big job. Every serious state, every serious service in this country should bypass these restrictions. I couldn't agree more. What does that mean? The European Translation Office is not under the influence of this law? What kind of circus are you making? What's this about? Is that why he's going to suffer, say, a budget inspection? Is this why he's going to suffer urban inspection, construction inspection? Is that why we're going to put up with life-saving jobs? Will the services that will be engaged in an efficient and high-quality collection of tax revenues be mutilated by this unfortunate and miserable office? This is your perception of your unfortunate European integration. Therefore, the SRS proposes this amendment, although it has the view that this is completely pointless, incomplete and incomplete law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30789	It was used two minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the Parliament's group. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) Messenger of the people Velimir Ilic. I'm just asking you to sign up. Next time. On Article 4, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Mirko Cikiriz, Aleksandar Jugovic, Zika Gojkovic and Aleksandar Cikiriz. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30790	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Markicevic has tabled an amendment to delete Article 4 of Article 1. Deleted: ‘2010’ and entered as ‘2011 year’. What does that mean? Reduction of administration, layoffs in local government, that's the layoff of officials who have the lowest wages, minimum income. In the amount of funds to be used in the budget, it's so minor. We asked that this application be moved to 2011, because since the New Year's fired people, leaving so many small officials without a job, and receiving some new people, who are already being admitted these days, where the receivings are extremely large, is not correct. In particular, I'd like to point out that the competition is currently being called, for example, in Flight Control, 34 employees at once. There must be over 200-300 thousand dinars there. Does it make sense to fire those who have income below 20,000, and bring people who have received extremely large incomes, where one, minor, receives the salary of as many as 10 regular employees? It bothers me very much that you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, comment here that we have had a great deal of income in some previous governments. It is true that people who are inadequate parties are now fired here, that they will be accepted, in various ways, secondly, that each session of the Assembly brings thousands of new jobs through various visions. Let's just take the Communal Police. Let's take the agencies now. You heard the lady from the Radical Party, who read how much the agencies pay. It's where pure party people are received, and there's no explanation at all. Why is that happening? That's what you have to explain. So, you will now, through these layoffs, fire party-like ones, in order to destroy and return some of the parties to certain premises of your party's like-minded. You prove it through a series of receipts, opening new jobs, and that's very incorrect. You're doing it permanently. We now have the municipality of Vozdovac, as one of the examples. I'm glad the Minister of Education is here. Is it possible that the administration in the municipality of Voždovac is so many docks that now, Mr. Minister, every elementary and secondary school student of the Voždovac municipality has received a letter, a letter – a student and a letter – a parent. To God, the interim body and the president of the interim body Branko Arsenijević concluded in talks with children on the street and wherever the children have many good proposals on the Vozdovac municipality. He decided to respect, as a temporary authority, the fact that children have objections and now address their children in the territory of the municipality of Voždovac, that their proposals are very good and constructive and that each child is now obliged to take a letter to his parents especially, where he writes – respected parents. It says that these ideas of children are so good that they want the students to turn all their ideas into projects, that parents now return a letter to the municipal administration, so that they can sit together and consider each and every proposal of the child and improve the living conditions of the Voždovac municipality. How come you didn't think to do that in Kaludierica, for example, which has no sewers, on Umca, where there's no sewers? How come you didn't think to do that in Sheep, Borchi, Miriev, where's a million problems? Now you suddenly thought of Voždovec, because the elections, that the children are too smart, that they have, especially the champions, extraordinary proposals for certain projects to be implemented, and now you will be with each champion, different, third, with their parents, who will return that letter, sit down to consider all this and you don't know what you're going to do sooner, and the proposal is so much. We saw, the mayor goes to wipe out the monument, because the children said the monument was not cleaned, a monument to Stepi Stepanovic, the doton mayor, and he doesn't know half of Belgrade was dug up. Do you know you're digging now, before winter? Head towards Višnica from Karaburma, the machines are working, traffic has been stopped, and the snow will be in a few days. The other day, when it snowed, there was chaos totally in traffic. A half-centimetre fell snow and was paralyzed by Belgrade, could not be passed for hours, etc., but now you will sit down and every child's remark to consider. This is a total abuse of children for political purposes. It really doesn't make sense for a municipal administration to write 50,000, 60,000 letters, to direct them to every parent, to each student in particular, so that the parent can return that letter, so that the letter can be seduced and then the parents, together with the children, can sit down to discuss with the President of the Interim Council until he sees these projects, etc. There are a billion problems on Vozdovec that have not been solved for ten years, and no problems have been solved in Ripenj, Kumodraž, etc. Gentlemen, since 1996, you've been in power in Belgrade, what have you been waiting for, why haven't you handled it? Is it possible that a temporary organ can determine and see all of this, and your mayors in other municipalities can't see anything? How is it possible that the entire Umka has no sewers and, because of the large number of septic pits, it's sliding towards Savi? Every year, a half-metre road is paved, as far as the rinks are made. When you come down and look off the coast of Sava, you see that the asphalt is 10 meters thick. These slides are caused by mass because each yard has three to four septic pits. It's a disaster for a village. Not to talk about Kaludierica, not to talk about Miriev, not to talk about settlements that don't have 60-70% asphalt. Is it possible to do this kind of thing in a campaign? Why? You care about winning the Vozdovec, tricking the citizens and abusing the children and parents, the founding fathers, high school students, instead of giving them instructions on how to get less sick, not to get together, to improve the conditions of parents, to get immunity, to eat more meat, to be a higher standard, to increase the purchasing power of the population of the Voždovac municipality, to legalize the facilities, to start building. Look at Vozdovac and this part of Belgrade. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you have held power in Belgrade since 1996, and for this part of Belgrade towards the Shumadija, which you have been using extremely much, especially through spears, mines and two thermal power plants, you have done nothing for the last ten years. That part towards the Shumadi was only given to the Orlovata cemetery in the last ten years and the bypass started, and that's what we started, and the works stopped today and nothing was done. Why? For what? That's what needs to be explained. Therefore, it is not correct to do this at the time of the election campaign and to have children from primary and secondary schools, teachers and teachers write some letters in haste because they want to go through some kind of campaign. We would like, if possible, to be serious, to discuss these billions of problems currently in Serbia. You're talking about a surplus administration. For eight years, I was Mayor of Chack. Since 1996, to this day, the Municipality of Cačak has had fewer 70 employees in the administration, as it follows by the number of inhabitants. Why? Because we thought about this people, we made roads, and that's why every village has an asphalt road, a sewerage, water and everything else. Because we did not receive the administration, as individual cities whose mayors hired their party people in an expensive administration, raised the number of administrative workers and reduced the design of certain projects in the area. That's your problem...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30791	Mr. Ilichu, please come back...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30792	I have a party time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30793	On the basis of Article 103, the debate in particular, which is currently under way, concerns the reduction of employees in the republican administration. (Momir Markovic: That's what he's talking about. Please don't throw away. With insight into the stenogram you can see exactly at which point I intervened, reminding MP Velimir Ilic of the obligation to respect Article 103. The law regarding the administration at the local level is next in line. We are now talking about employees in the republican administration, the amendment they have submitted, a joint colleague, Miroslav Markicevic. Ten minutes from the time of Parliament Group President, you've already used it. Please, in the next five minutes from the time of the authorised representative and the total time of the Parliamentary Group that is available to you, 10 minutes and 48 seconds, imitate your presentation with Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which obliges us all to talk about the agenda. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30794	I've turned a little bit of attention to the bar, because there's a lot of talk about it these days, but that doesn't mean that we don't need to discuss this expensive administration, about agencies, about public enterprises, where wages are European. Our individual directors are already in the EU, they have salaries and more than European standards, and now we're talking about a bar, where African salaries are. There's a big gap. In the past months, we've debated here about directors who have salaries of over 10,000 euros and some people from the ruling coalition have said here that it's justified, that they're good managers, that they should have so many. However, when you enter these companies, it is concluded that there is rot, that there is great loss, that they are great losers and that our great managers cannot receive that kind of pay. That's what draws the budget, which draws the money, which is a large part of the budget used to rehabilitate these companies. So we can't count the state administration, the lowest ranking, which has salaries of 25,000 to 30,000, where the high-ranking expert has 40,000 dinars. We're talking a little bit about those who have extremely large salaries, expensive and expensive agencies, a large number of people who are employed. Let's take the People's Office, is that where the restrictive measures are taken? Is that where the administration wants to be reduced? Why do we need the People's Office of the President of the Republic in every place? It's a whole machine. What makes it necessary for this country if the institutions operate? Why does a parallel administration have to appear now? Now you want to transfer the powers of the republican authorities, the government's authorities, or the ministries, to Vojvodina. Will it be a large, double, massive administration, which will withdraw thousands of new administrative measures, thousands and hundreds of new ones, through agencies now entitled to their agencies? We're making a parallel to a system that's now operating in the state. Is that necessary at this time or not necessary? You said it was necessary to satisfy the great appetites of some of your coalition comrades who want to employ their listeners from the parties through this vision and allow them thousands of new jobs. Look at the structure of the staff. Every day we hear and read that new jobs are being opened, with extremely large salaries. Is that a sign that someone wants to cut the budget for the state administration, and they're going to pay for the cheapest employees? Don't be surprised. The wife of one of the ministers will be given the post these days, at least it was in the press. The wives of many ministers have won, but no one has gone to work as a clerk in the ministry, where the salary is 20, 30, 40,000 dinars, but in these agencies which are millions of dollars, where wages are extremely high. So let's make one administration that will last for years. This country doesn't have a state administration yet, because every time elections take place, the parties come in and they totally break down the stalking system, bring their people in, completely change professional and quality people and look for obedient, party people. It's not correct, and it happens often now. Let's get the airfield administration. Look at the administration and what's going on. Why couldn't there have been an affair? Do you know that at the airport, the law has been broken a hundred times, that the Constitution has been violated, that the airport sold land to Flight Control by millions of euros, and when I started as a resolution minister that it was a crime to alienate the country, it was said that they had not sold it but had rented it for 99 years, and today a large building is being built there. What happened? If they rent, then they have the right to own funds from the rent. Where do you think they put them? All the officials bought a flat and a jeep. They need a jeep for a tour of the airport. In the morning, before breakfast, all the collectively, in the column, go to the airport. Every official, director, chief of staff, deputies, assistants, everyone has to come out in a big column to go around. Of course, those jeeps are driving home this afternoon, so that's what they do. They all got a "grend chiroki". It's, like, regular. They all got an apartment because they had extraordinary incomes from renting out. Do you know how much that was? It was about four, five, six million euros and they could rent themselves and do whatever they wanted. We're not taking care of that now. These are the funds that were to be pooled, as state property, not private property, was sold to the Republic of Serbia's budget, in the RS Property Directorate. Now you've changed the law. That wouldn't work now. They're free now, and they don't have any obligation, but under that law, that's how it happened. We could have saved six million euros in one place, but no one reacted, no competent authority, even though I wrote letters to everyone as a minister. I've been asking a lot of questions here, gentlemen, very important. That's why you muddy those unfortunate wagons every day. Please arrest those men who bought those cars. Let's solve this once, if Serbia has failed because of nine wagons on the railway, let's arrest them all and set the maximum penalty to save the country. It's been stolen in thousands of places. Why? Because you made it possible, gentlemen, for your coalition partners to be obedient and to listen in government. So there's a lot of holes where it leaks, where it all has to be covered, and where there's going to be more budget funds. The Serbian economy in this way cannot cover such an outflow of funds, which is growing daily and larger. So I'm asking you to take care of this in your new budget. Don't waste any more money in a variety of ways, not to mention what you've been giving for, books can be written, which would have thousands and thousands of pages, but now you've found to kill "guju", on those poor employees who work, feed their families, and that's going to run out of bread since New Year's Eve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30795	Three minutes and 20 seconds were used from the time of the Parliamentary Group and the total time available to the president of the Parliamentary Group was used. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30796	Mr. Ilic, thank you for the information about this initiative, but I couldn't understand very well whether the problem with the contents of the letter – that children are being abused for political purposes, or is the problem with the initiative? I'm saying this for reasons that you probably, like me, know well that local self-government has the right to launch different kinds of initiatives related to how funds are spent to function in education. I say this for little reason, local self-government across Serbia should allocate significant resources to develop local self-government, while local self-government's participation in education is 0.9% of GDP. The SO Vozdovac initiative, i.e. the Vozdovac municipality, should not be a problem in this regard. Whether or not there will be, in what way this initiative will be concrete, we will see in the days and months ahead. Otherwise, I have to say that it is not unknown, when all sorts of choices are, that all structures, both local and republican, are engaged, probably you, as minister, previous, and I as present, or this future, and that's something that the law does not forbid. The law acts like that in these activities. There is a law on preventing conflicts of interest and other laws that regulate the behaviour of ministers and local self-government. I'll take a look at this letter. If there is any reason to suspect that children are being abused, as Minister, I will react. Just so you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30797	On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30798	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted some six amendments to this law, but I think it is very important to say that, as far as the SNS is concerned, there is no way to resolve any surplus employees in the state administration. This law shows that we live in an abnormal society, that we have a government that is irresponsible. The government has given itself the right to determine how many officials, how many executives it takes to do some work in state institutions, in the state administration. It's, first of all, the work of people who are professionally involved in the organization of work. We have FON, we have people who are willing and trained to analyse the work of state institutions, state agencies, who can make proposals for rationalisation, which can give the most adequate systematisation, based on the latest achievements in technology, above all, when it comes to information and communication technology, to include the work of the Ministry and in the work of all institutions, so that we get a reduction in costs and a reduction in the number of employees. It's some normal path to go, not to determine first the number of employees, about 28,400, as already given. It is obvious that it is a political agreement between political parties. It is obvious that today in Serbia it is possible to do so, because the government is being exercised for the sake of the government itself, because of its privilege, not because it intends to implement a political programme, some reforms, because there is no medium-term vision of the state, of society, of our state institutions in the near future. So, today in Serbia, power provides individuals not only with privileges, but also with material benefits, but also with political parties to, through employment, through a number of jobs that provide for their political party, get a number of votes, to enable the funding of political parties through the authorities to preserve the privileges already acquired. Today, unfortunately, we have one party state, and in such a party state, we have a transition bureaucracy, which is enough for itself. In such a society, in such an environment, it is also possible to pass such laws, which are totally unacceptable for a normal society, for a society that is more difficult for the Serbian Progressive Party. We have, obviously, great intellectual corruption in our society, the fact that our elite is not working on the development of the market economy, that we come to a law-doing society, is not working to develop state institutions, that it is directly engaged in the economy itself, and that, possibly, it enables our economy to function, but our elite is engaged in rents, trying to use this time of transition in which we find ourselves to provide, possibly, a percentage for ourselves, for its political parties. The law we have before us is clearly, as I said, the agreement of political parties on the number of necessary employees, i.e. the distribution they made within the coalition itself, within the government itself. He is also the result of IMF pressure, which always insists on reducing public expenditure, on reducing public spending, not because he cares about our economy, not because he cares about our economy, but because he is afraid that the state will not be able to return annuities that contribute, loans that it has and how much in this country. For SNS, the full law is unacceptable, as I said, because it does not define public consumption, because no principle is established in terms of public consumption in terms of gross domestic product, nor determines how much investment from gross domestic product must be made in the economy itself, in order to eventually get to new jobs, so that we can start our economy. It does not relate to public spending, it does not, therefore, bind itself to the number of jobs and costs they have, nor to inflation, nor to any other economic parameters, but to the flat-rate, swelling, cutting how many employees are needed in the state administration of political parties. I think it is extremely important for the SNS to finally have a reform of the relationship between the state and the economy and between the state and individuals, that this imbalance that exists in consumption and production finally begins to resolve itself. With this and this law, no doubt, it won't come to that. This and this law demonstrates the best character of this government and the essence of the political parties' relations within that coalition. It is unacceptable and all the pressures that are going through this law on individual institutions, in the sense that the transfer of individual funds, payouts, show that this government has no vision, no desire to carry out any reform, but the momentum continues with a policy that has proved to be unsuccessful in these ten years behind us and does not lead to a better life for Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30799	Four minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30800	Thank you. Mr. Minister doesn't want me to address him, and I'm very sorry that they came out, so we don't know when any of them will come, but what I'm saying is that we're in Article 4, in section 1 and 2. We're going to change the words "this law", by saying, "the law on determining the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration", as well as the words "beginning in 2010", they delete, as well as the commas that separate these words from the rest of the text. When I read the government's explanation, I was very surprised because it reads – the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for not accepting the amendments under regular number 1 in this opinion. What does this amendment number four have to do with Amendment number one? There's nothing. But when I looked at all of our other amendments, we have the government's fully-typed explanation for everything we've written. It shows great seriousness, I almost told Mr. Milan Markovic, a minister who should be a resolute minister for this law, and who, for obvious reasons, is therefore really ashamed to represent what is written here, flees from the O.R., is never here, even when it represents the law. One who should represent the law, Minister Dinkic and his associates, died laughing. Minister Dinkic didn't come. This shows the seriousness of those who told us in the campaign that they would create 200,000 new jobs, and according to union analyses, from the first month, from January to September, the job lost between 155,000 and 250,000 workers. It's the same seriousness of those who said the government had to save, to fire workers, and at the same time they hired, from January to September, 353 new people. It is the same seriousness that, without any clear criteria, without talking about how an analysis is going to be done, whether it will be done, in which way, with a new modern analytical method called the'reducative method', determined that the number of employees in the republican administration will be 28,400, and all others should try to understand how it is determined. So we don't accept explanations. Say – The DSS cannot write an amendment that we will accept and then it's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30801	Thirty seconds has been used since the Parliament Group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30802	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no one to speak to from the Government again. I thought I'd repeat some of what I said on Friday, but I guess I'll have to wait for one of the ministers to show up again. By the way, I personally think Mrs. Kovac is very lovelyly smiling, so please keep smiling. I only hope the rest of the department's jobs work so well. As far as this amendment is concerned, in short, it is entirely consistent. Here's Mrs. Kalanovic. Thank you. So, he is fully consistent with the DSS amendments and, as Mrs Kalanovic has arrived, I will repeat part of what I said on Friday. So I'm going to repeat, I can't think of a good enough qualification for this law to remain fundamentally decent. The DSS does not dispute the need for the administration, both republican and local, to be organised efficiently and rationally, but it must be done according to a certain normal and logical procedure. We don't accept that someone throws out a number of 28,400, nothing challenged, and that's the measure of this law. I don't know if that number should be smaller, I don't know if it should be bigger, and I'm sorry, I don't see any reason for anyone to know. As soon as the lovely ladies are done talking, I'll continue. What the Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed is to establish a procedure to do this job, a procedure that can be done very easily and very quickly. In a week's time, I made a systematization of the jobs in this assembly, which Mrs. Kalanovic knows. Therefore, it is no wisdom at all. Simply, all state entities should make their own proposals, the government should consider this and, according to some unique criteria, establish how many administrations we need, then pass a law on determining the maximum number, but a law that will result in a logical procedure being established. In doing so, two things should be said. Blanco's appeal to EU practice is completely inappropriate in this case, for several reasons. I'll give you two diametric opposites. On the one hand, the EU is far richer than we are, so it may be able to pay more employees than we can. For example, in the German Bundestag, four employees come to one MP, which would mean that a thousand employees should work in the Assembly and work at 249. Personally, I don't think it should work a thousand, because we're poorer than Germany. On the other hand, many jobs in the EU and their administrations, which they do not have to do, we must. If nothing else, they don't have to have an EU accession office. They don't have to adopt one of hundreds, I mean, even thousands of conventions, which the EU has done during the 1990s, and we have to. So they're all grandmothers and frogs together, and they can't be identified in any way. Finally, motive, which is to save money. It's very simple to do math. Our planned budget deficit is 1,400,000 euros, as they say it will be. The savings on these 3,000 employees are 12,000,000 euros per year for their salaries, assuming they have 30,000 dinars per month and have fewer. It's a formal savings. There's no substantial savings, not right now, not permanently. Because for one part of them, the state will have additional costs, to various kinds of social benefits. On the other hand, 12,000,000 less will appear in consumption, so if nothing else, the state will not take 18% of the VAT on that money. So there are no financial effects. Even if it's all 12 million, it's less than one break of the budget deficit. I'm not talking about social and other issues right now, that's what I was talking about last time. For this reason, the Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed that the very title of this law be changed and then, consistently throughout the law, that this be a law on the procedure for determining the number of employees in the state administration, or local administration, when it comes to the other law. It's the only option, except, of course, the best option there is, which is that this law and this law are withdrawn from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30803	Four minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative. Thank you. At your disposal, as an authorised representative, there are two minutes and 30 seconds left. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30804	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, Honored Madam Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5, which I propose to add to Article 5, after Article 1, Article 2, which reads: "The authorities of the state administration, public agencies and compulsory social security organisations shall report at least twice a year to the competent committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. “ The reason for the refusal of this amendment states that it is not accepted because it is in accordance with Article 6. The draft law, the information concerning its application to the public, and what, in this respect and on the basis of the established responsibility of the Government and the Minister, the National Assembly may, in accordance with the Law on Government and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, exercise control over the application of the provisions of the Bill of Law and the conduct of the Republic Administration and the competent authorities. Since we are talking about two laws, or three laws, that are very sensitive, as it concerns the reduction of the number of employees, at this point, of the law on the Republic's administration, and the most important law passed by this assembly is the law on the budget, while the funds in the budget are owned by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we can only deploy them in accordance with their trust and their expectations. That's why our responsibility is great. These are all those employees who get paid directly from the budget. What really bothers us in this law and in some other laws, which we have been paying attention to, is that the Assembly should be a control body, which reports should arrive in the Assembly, which should be discussed, and most of all on these budget spending reports. The second thing that bothers me in this law, I have to read, it's an explanation of one of our other amendments, which has been rejected and which speaks of the selectivity of this law. It is said that the amendment is not accepted because, with regard to the application of the provision of the bill to the national authorities, only the authorities of the state administration are limited to their application. So, just some of which law enforcement won't apply. We've already heard, colleague Lidija Dimitrijevic read some of the figures that really turned in my head, and I trust the citizens of Serbia when they heard. However, what is problematic about this law, according to the way we bring it, should be applied within a month. He was extorted after consulting the IMF. The attention to public spending and the care of spending funds has been drawn before. However, it is interesting that we already have the law in practice, and before its adoption it is applied. I have to make an example out of my West Coast. Some of the jobs there were abolished in September, and the veterinary instructors remained unscheduled. In particular, there are three men in the West Coast. It is interesting that the others are unallocated, with an extremely poor estimate, those veterinary inspectors who have proven themselves have a complete fulfillment of their work obligations. They even had some transfers according to expected work tasks, but pointed to irregularities in the work of the executive, which was party-defined. Look wonders, they don't have any party book, or at least they don't have a proper party book, and by September 15th, their jobs have been cut off and they're unscheduled. It's gonna be a big problem when people like that get in court. It's going to be a big problem when, after applying this law, many people find themselves in court and when court proceedings are given to those who are damaged. Then the state will have additional problems, a financial problem, above all, that we don't know how to deal with. What we cannot support in this law, and what we expected the amendments to be fixed, is insufficient control of the enforcement of this law and the selectivity it offers openly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30805	It's been used two minutes and 30 seconds since the Parliament Group's time. Anyone else want a word? If not, pursuant to Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 6, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30806	Very briefly, Article 6, to which the Committee has submitted the amendment, speaks about the data on the number of employees and persons employed and the need to keep these data public. The Committee suggested that public information should also be available on the basis of their paid salaries, allowances and fees, which is good, but it is not good that this law provides for any persons employed at all, i.e. what I was talking about earlier, that this law, on the one hand, will fire workers, and on the other hand some new ones, which are similar to the current regime, will come. Here, just for the sake of the public, I'm going to translate what the figures in this law mean. The government tells us that there are currently 30,624 employees in the state administration. The law provides for the number to be 28,400, so the cancellations will be given to 2,224 people from the state administration. Article 3 The bill allows up to 10% of the people, new people, to be employed, by means of a work contract, occasional or temporary transactions, etc., which means that the number will be 2.840. He'll be fired for 2.224, but he'll be employed for a new 2,840. This means that when this law comes into force, when applied, ladies and gentlemen, Serbian citizens, in the state administration, 616 people will be more employees than today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30807	One minute and 55 seconds were used from the time of the Parliament's group. Anyone else want a word? If not, MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted the amendment to Article 6, together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30808	Thank you. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 6, paragraph 1, the DSS, after saying "employees", deleted the word "and hired". In Article 2, instead of the point, the words ‘to update them regularly and within 30 days of the date of adoption of the acts on the systematisation of posts in accordance with the Law on the establishment of the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration’ shall be inserted and added. After Article 3, we added a new position 4, which reads: "The public administration, public agencies and organisations referred to in Article 3 are obliged to establish a register under Article 3 within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the Law establishing the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration". Why did we delete this "engaged" thing? I would have, if the gentleman who wrote this law were here, asked, did they ever look at the laws that apply in this country? Did they find the term "engaged" in those laws? There is no such term in law. All persons engaged must be considered employees. That is why we feel that this "engaged" should be deleted, and that is why we understand why it is put here. It was put in order that after the people of the state administration were fired, some new people would be admitted. Of course, the criteria are party to them being additionally engaged. Second, in paragraphs 2. And three, you gentlemen are leaving out the deadlines. I don't know if you know you have to write deadlines in the law. That's why we left what you left out and added to Articles 2 and 3. This is only in this Article 6, which is completely in collegiate with Article 3 of this same law, look at it, and then start laughing at us. Article 6 and Article 3 are fully in collegiate. This is an example of true legal sloppyness and you demonstrate this example of true legal sloppyness whenever you deliver a law to us, because these laws are contrary to each other, contrary to the Constitution, are members of each other. Give it to some lawyer to look at, and then let's comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30809	Anyone else want a word? On Article 6, the amendments are, together, the mid-term MPs Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30810	I would like to point out firstly that in April of this year LDP has submitted a proposal for a law on ministries, which has been proposed to split the number of ministries; instead of being a total of 13 ministries. This would mean more significant savings in relation to the republican administration, saving the state administration. Public spending would have decreased significantly if the government had gone from itself, if it had reduced the number of ministries. It was our proposal, because we felt that sooner or later we would be in this situation where we are currently in place, that we have to admit that public spending is huge, that our republican administration is too bulky and that the costs are so great that this country can't take it anymore. I would like to remind you of the fact that Serbia has literally taken over the full administration of some of the previous countries that preceded Serbia, Serbia-Montenegro, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, or the SFRY. This administration has been appropriate to the size of all these countries that have preceded today's Republic of Serbia, so we have a situation where ministers address us in such a way as to, say, consider the Ministry of Education to have a shortage of employees, because the systematization provides for 501 employees and has 360 employees. It considers that it is not subject to this rationalisation proposed by the law on the rationalisation of the republican administration. The NIP ministry is also thinking the same way. And it considers that it employs only one-third of the required number of administrators, etc. Only the Ministry of Agriculture has made recommendations not to hire new workers, or to constantly reduce that number, and this has already proved to be in some savings of two billion dinars. If we think in a way that is really necessary to introduce rationalization, we can support the bill's proposal to reduce the number. However, this reduction raises the question – what are the criteria to be applied to achieve the effect of rationalisation? Are these the criteria for the usefulness of jobs provided for the state administration? Are these the criteria regarding the expertise of these workers, the employees working on these jobs? Are these the most important criteria, or are we counting on something else in these criteria? Unfortunately, experience so far tells us that we can expect great controversy and great problems in implementing this law if adopted. For this reason, my parliamentary group has submitted certain amendments to this Article 6, where we propose to make the data transparent on the number of persons employed and employed, by presenting these data via the Internet, so we suggest that this presentation be at least once a month, that the Internet also presents the salary of those employees, that this procedure from Article 6 be made completely transparent and public. What's going on with our amendments? They just don't get adopted. They don't adopt by reason that it wouldn't be rational and there wouldn't be any effect. However, the effect would be to get the public, we would get transparency, and that would result in democratic control of the number of employees. Therefore, one continuous control, which would provide for frequent monthly control, would again result in raising the question of the responsibility of all those who do not respect the ban on employment, i.e. to stick to the obligation to treat public spending rationally and in general to the budget that finance them. By the end of this year, the government will establish the number of employees needed for 26 ministries. So the government will be the one to give the last word about this law that we are discussing today. It is hard to believe that the government, which is so untransparent in its decisions, will decide to take action on rationalization, especially since it has already been able to take certain steps with it, because all those agencies that are doing business within the government, all these funds, all of these institutions, etc., are subject to government control. They are subject to the opinion that the Government assesses the work of these agencies, for example, and if these agencies do not meet certain criteria in terms of expertise, in terms of the legality of their work, they should, i.e., lead people of those agencies, and respond. In the final sequence, and to lose work that they do, unless they do it responsibly, professionally and legally. For example, we have a case that the US private investment insurance agency abroad has suspended further insurance for all investments in Serbia. Why? This is a direct consequence of the Agency for Privatisation and Rejection of Authorities, including those agencies in Belgrade, to act on a legally strong decision by the International Court of Arbitration. So, the interstate agreement on fostering 2001 investments, which was concluded between the United States of Serbia, is under question. If we start from the assumption that this privatisation agency has ignored some concrete and certain obligations and that, possibly, has done great damage, caused consequences that will be negative for Serbia, the question arises – why has no one from that agency called for responsibility? There is the possibility, for example, of the executive body, the Government, that the rationalisation of the republican administration also works on this basic criterion of responsibility and expertise in the Agency. When we start from the fact that, since 2001, there has been a more significant reduction of employees in Serbia, for example, in the processing industry – 248,000, in agriculture – 35,000 etc., therefore, it is mainly about some processing industry, we can see that there has been an increase in employment in education, about 13,000, in the state administration and in municipal services, approximately 5,500 employees. Therefore, it is obvious that the public sector is the one that employs, and in the sector that deals with direct production, which must be financed by itself, there is a shortage of employees. For this reason, we have a constant increase in public spending and a constant increase in public sector employees. When we look at that even now, when it comes to reducing the number of republican administrations, less public sector employees, there are certain exceptions to police and the military, as well as those who are five years old until retirement, in fact, we are breaking cars again on those most active, who are in a situation that they can do the most and most to provide. I think it is not the most rational thing to do to reduce only the number of employees, unless this reduction follows something else, in addition to that quantitative assessment, if we do not worry about whether, by firing a certain number of workers, we will get more costs, because we will have a delay in the work of the public sector, or in the Republic administration. There are many facts that must be considered to have the ultimate desired effect, which is rationalization and savings. Today, all we're talking about is rationalization, and the savings are somehow in a different plan. It is the savings that, among other things, were issue number one in our government's negotiations with the IMF and it is okay to work to reduce the government's spending and reduce budget spending. However, if the savings go to the expense of everything else, therefore, the expertise of the work of the Republic administration, the usefulness of their work, and we have to have a republican administration that will satisfy, above all, the interests of citizens, in that case, that savings will not be useful, will be absolutely without that effect being stated in the legislative proposal and as an explanation for this rationalisation in the republican administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30811	There are 45 seconds left from the time of the Parliament's group. Anyone else want a word? The People's Parliament of the Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30812	This amendment, submitted by LDP colleagues, is very similar to the amendment adopted by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, and it is really interesting why it is not accepted, but rather made by some almost the same or similar. The essential question is – why is it that some new persons are actually scheduled to be hired when the law, I said earlier, provides for 2.224 cancellations in the Republic administration? Question for Mrs Kalanovic, I don't know if you've been able to look at yesterday's "Politice". I seek, for the sake of the public, first of all, on behalf of our parliamentary group, to answer us what is going on and what is going to happen to these people who are now being admitted to work? Yesterday, an ad was published in "Politica" for eight new employees at the Ministry of Mining and Energy and three at the Ministry of Finance. What kind of hypocrisy is this, what is this play and the National Assembly, and the citizens of Serbia, and the people who are now employed in the state administration and who are terrified of who gets fired? The debate on the law is under way, and yesterday an ad was announced for 11 new workers to be admitted to the two ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30813	The used time of the MP's group is a minute and 30 seconds. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendments were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30814	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, and this amendment submitted by the DSS Parliamentary Group is consistent with the overall proposals of the DSS that, once again, I will remind you, are going to go to the point of no doubt that this important business is being done properly, i.e. by some logical procedure. First, to turn this law into a law on this procedure, therefore, on a procedure for determining the maximum number of employees, and then, with very short deadlines, which can be done if possible, to think of what is the optimal number of employees in the republican administration, whether it is just 28,400, whether it is smaller or higher, and then to provide for a procedure – if someone should be fired, how to fire, by which rules of the game, especially for those who are before retirement, etc. Of course, the best option would be to get this, and this next law, out of the process, because I'm afraid that this government will leave a lot of work behind to some next government, to correct the laws, that is, the stupidity that this government has passed, and the majority of the congregation adopted. I'll remind you of the Information Act, and then these two laws, and unfortunately there were more. The DSS will explain some more of its amendments to this law, but I won't repeat this again. So either accept all the DSS amendments, which are consistent with each other, or withdraw the law from the procedure; that's the only smart thing in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30815	Thank you, Mr. Shami. On Article 7, the amendments were submitted jointly by MPs Bajram Šehovic, Vitomir Mihajlovic, Meso Omerovic and Munir Poturak. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30816	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Minister Kalanovic, we spoke in principle of discussion that one ministry is entering the work of another ministry. In fact, the legislator of this law is the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and by the logic of things should have been the Ministry of Local Self-Government and State Administration. It would be the same, Mrs Kalanovic, as if you were writing a law on the basic system of education and entering the portfolio of Mr. Zarko Obradovic. So that's about that parameter. Normally, you'd break the Government Act. That is why we warned that this was a violation of the Government Act and that the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development should not have written this law, but this second resolution ministry that I mentioned earlier. In that sense, we wanted to correct that injustice. In Article 8 of this Act, we proposed that the supervision and monitoring of this law, i.e. The implementation of this law is carried out by a ministry that is relevant to this, which is the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. However, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development here gives hot potatoes to another ministry, it is the Ministry of Finance, which needs to be accompanied by this law and its implementation. We believe that this amendment achieves the objective of this member and we return to the authority of one resolute ministry of work, which is to deal with the state administration and the monitoring of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30817	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30818	For the sake of full information, the promoter is not the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, the government has proposed, and the text has been written by the legislator, so that in the working group preparing the law he was also the minister responsible for economic and regional development affairs, but the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is not a lawmaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30819	Here you go, Mr. Pejcic, right to the explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30820	This is where Mr. Mladjan Dinkic defended the law, which said they wrote it; the Ministry of Economics and Regional Development has written the law we are now talking about. I don't see why you're defending the minister when he's the one who denied you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30821	Mrs. Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30822	I would also like to remind you that Mr Mladjan Dinkic is the Deputy Prime Minister who has been authorised to defend this law in the National Assembly and to defend him as Deputy Prime Minister, not as Minister of Economy and Regional Development. I have no reason to defend him, I'm simply stating the facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30823	Thank you. I don't think we've entered the essence of the amendment. On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who also has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30824	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, for the SRS Parliamentary Group, it is irrelevant who is the legislator of this law. We have pointed out in the debate on the principle, and even now, about amendments, we point to the complete senselessness of this law. So, the basic reason for this law is to boast the regime's attitude towards its citizens. There is no influence here, no global economic crisis, no domestic crisis, no IMF. The receptions since 2000, so to speak, have been on the political line, strictly party-wise. It is now a good opportunity, given that the structure of government by political parties has changed over the nine years, to say thank those who do not belong at this time to the ruling regime. In addition to this nonsense, we would like to specifically point to Article 8, which reads: “The supervision of the application of this law is carried out by the Ministry of Finance Affairs. ” We suggested adding another position, which reads: "The Ministry of Finance submits a report on the implementation of this law to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Finance Committee, every three months from the day this law begins to apply." The government has not accepted this amendment, and it is explained that it does not accept it for entirely identical reasons, which is why it is not accepted and an amendment to Article 5, which was submitted by Ms Zlata Djeric. She said the republican administration is obliged to report this to the government twice a year. The government responded to her, and therefore to this amendment. It says: “Article 6 defines the mandatory public publication of the number of employees.” We don't intervene here for public publication. You've provided for a sanction under article 13 if you're up to 31. 12. does not adopt an act on the organisation and systematicisation of these jobs. We ask ourselves, and therefore we submit this amendment – what if someone adopts an act on organisation and systemization that fully fits in 28,400 and later does not respect it? Why did we propose that the Ministry of Finance should report to the Committee on Finance of the Republic of Serbia every three months? For two reasons. The first reason is that the committee consists of representatives of all parliamentary groups, regardless of whether at this point in opposition or position, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, that the committee is chaired by someone who advocates consistent application of the law, someone who understands the financial flows of Serbia perfectly and who is fighting against abuse in spending the funds of Serbian citizens. If you want me to say that name, it's a distinguished colleague, Zoran Krasic. Just remember, when we had the Land Expansion Act to build a regional pipeline, that it indicated, in February, that there would be problems in the application of the law, and the Ministry of Finance lady said there would be no. Then we saw that it was a really big problem. We only demand that the control function be transferred to the relevant Finance Committee, there is enough reason to do so. If you are not afraid of control, gentlemen from G17, Mrs Kalanovic, I am speaking to you because you are the only government representative here, accept this amendment; it cannot harm, it can also benefit those who are in the government and claim to be honest, we assume that there are such, and Serbian citizens. That is why this amendment should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30825	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30826	Thank you. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the DSS is changing that Article 9 proposed by the government, according to Mrs Kalanovic, and it should read as follows: "The deadline for the adoption of acts on the systematisation of jobs, in accordance with the Law on determining the maximum number of employees in the republican administration, is 15 days from the date of entry into force of the law." If you have carefully read the amendments that we, as the DSS parliamentary group, have written to you, in the amendment to Article 2, we have offered you a way out of this story that you have offered us and the citizens of Serbia here, i.e. there is no procedure that determines the optimal number of employees in the administration. We therefore gave you the method and procedure to systematically and very systematicly reach that optimal number of employees. To be clear, neither is the DSS advocating that such an expensive and large administrative apparatus should remain in that number, nor are your unions, those who are employed in the administration, someone who is an enemy in this business. It would've been more normal and smarter if you'd agreed, if you'd talked to the unions, how you didn't, because they're offering one of the models that you could get to the optimal number of employees. Obviously, you don't want to know what number that is. For some very simple reason, it's responsible for you to go to 10% right now, to the next law, to 15%, etc. So you just don't want to be serious about this job.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30827	On Article 10, amendments to the same text were submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Dragan Stevanovic. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30828	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to your earlier presentation, Mrs. Kalanovic, I've been under the impression that you're building on this law. The first thing you said was that you weren't the Proposer, you were the Proposer of the Government, and then, that it wasn't your ministry who wrote the law, it was the legislation. Somehow I get the impression that you're also aware of how much this is worth and how much it makes sense. The peak of the hypocritical government, since you didn't propose the law, but the government, was contained in article 10 of this law. We suggested that this member be deleted, because I don't know how much and if anyone could find a model and a modus to change what you predicted in this article. In the explanation you rejected the amendment, you wrote, among other things, that this member and the mechanisms are predicting, watch this – to serve as one of the criteria for making the right decision on who will be deployed and who remains unscheduled, or surplus. This is a mechanism for making lists for firing and firing people who are or are not in your political will. Why do I say that? Now look at this. In Article 1, you shall provide for a period of 30 days from the date of entry into force of this law for the managers of the authorities of the state administration, etc., to carry out checks on the quality of the staff. Now you who have been creating this bureaucratic mastodon for 10 years in 30 days will be able to carry out a fair assessment of who is worth it, who should remain, who is not worth it, who should not remain. Who can you convince in Serbia of that, in principle of justice that you have reduced and predicted within 30 days? You who found 2,000 or 8,000 people in the state administration in 2001, or 9,000, and now there are 30,000? Now here's a parallel. When we adopted this assembly, when we discussed the Construction Planning Act, one of the mechanisms was that local unit congregations, in three months from the entry into force of the law, made only decisions on accessing spatial plans, decisions written in 10 minutes, and even less needed for meetings of the Assembly to adopt them. As far as spatial plans are concerned, there, in principle, both the position and the opposition have a unique position. We have proposed an amendment to provide 30 days for this procedure in the law. The government you represent here now said it's not enough and it takes us three months, or 90 days. Now you convince us that in 30 days you will conduct a fair screening of who should and who should not remain to work in the state administration. We ask you – what criteria did you manage when you made such an administration as you did? Only political obligations, merits and belongings. Do you really believe that you're going to convince us that mom and dad's bumblebees, which you've been hiring for years, are now going to fire and that their irresponsibility and inability will not be paid by cleaners, drivers, administrative workers or others who are there without protection? Now watch how far that goes. And you're asking Article 3 to take a period of two years within these evaluations. The head of the state authority who has allowed one unemployed, incompetent, unskilled man to suffer for two years should first be fired, so he should be arrested, Madam Minister, because the invaluable damage he has done to the state body he is working in. Now you will have to put up with such a man who, perhaps from justified or political pressures, has had to suffer the incompetent and irresponsible, to trust such a mechanism, to define in the name of righteousness who will be left without a job, and who will not be without a job, or who will not be appointed. You, gentlemen of the Ministers, and your government where you sit, mock the people, mock the citizens, mock this assembly. As far as we're concerned, God is asking you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30829	The word has Mrs. Minister Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30830	Ladies and gentlemen, I also consider my role here as a sort of clarification of the ambiguities that come out of the law and the presentations we meet in the Assembly. However, my partnership as a representative of the government implies that we are very well informed about things that are on the agenda. I'm in a position today to hear that this government has a number of ministries that don't fit the facts. Today I'm in a position to hear that I'm the promoter, thinking that I'm still a member, that is, employed by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. No, I am the Minister for the National Investment Plan and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development binds me with good memories, because I worked there, I have an honest partnership with them, as well as with other ministries in this government, but I am not a spokesman for the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development but simply a minister for the National Investment Plan. Here, too, I meet with the fact that in 2000, there were 8,000 people in the state administration, with no clear distinction that Serbia had a republican administration of 8,000 people at the time and that today there is a very different form of existence. I am aware that by your knowledge and experience, well-intentionedness, information from the field, among other things, what you were just talking about about about Mr Krasic, you want to influence this law in the most well-intentioned way. But if we're going to have a good influence on this law, we need first to properly inform ourselves of the facts, and the facts are these. In the end, one more thing, not to build on this law, but to support it with all our might. This law should lead to what we are constantly talking about, to new employment, but through the release of the economy. We know that those who are currently spending money in the state administration are in charge of important jobs, but the real savings are going in the direction of redundancy, in increasing the number of people who work in those productive activities that have a significant impact on employment, and on increasing standards, and on increasing wages, and on increasing pensions, and on increasing salaries for those who work in the state administration. In this direction, as a member of the Government and, though small, but one of the legislators of this law, I am absolutely for its adoption, for raising the efficiency of the state administration, for saving, for firing those people who are over the number, and for having the weakest results, but also for seeking their place in some other actions that they are willing to do at the moment, and which can only be achieved at the expense of saving and placing money on another side, and not on the salaries and pensions of those who in those places are practically not needed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30831	I allow the right to the replica of MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30832	Mrs. Kalanovic, I didn't say for a moment that you were someone's spokesman, I wasn't counting the ministries, I didn't count the ministries, I just got the impression that you were building on this law, and I made it very clear, at the beginning of my story, I told it. It's untasteful to call for a federal administration. Here, let's take, with the best intentions and the greatest desire to be constructive, that 5,000 people have crossed from the federal administration, I don't believe it's 2,000, be 5,000, that's 13,000. Where's the difference up to 30,000? I agree with you, but let's talk to the arguments, since you've been defined to inform us and inform us that we're not in the right direction. You have never defended this law by the fact that you want to promote the economy of this country, nor can you promote this law of economy. You have defended this law by improving the administration, by raising the administrative capacity of this country. Is that true? Madam Minister, for 275 days you need to get a building permit, 625 days you need, on average, it's not the worst, it's worse than that, to exercise your rights based on court rulings in this country. To whom, on behalf of the Government, as a foreign investor, you can guarantee legal and financial security in this country, with this degree of corruption, which is not just indicated by the SRS, Transparency International points out to you by the European Commission that you are leading us to, the EU, the institutions of that body point to you. You can't tell a story about an upgrade of the administration's consciousness to the layoff of workers. It's a system action. The problem in this system is yours, your government associates, who are destroying and destroying this system, and they are in no way working in its function, in the function of its promotion. So it's nice that you want to be both correct and sweet, but life and everyday life are something diametrically opposed to what you talk about and reality in the way you experience it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30833	On the same basis, Mr. Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30834	Madam Minister, you quoted what I was saying about the chairman of the Finance Committee. The MPs of the SRS and the MP group in general are always well-intentioned towards the citizens of Serbia, and according to the regime, then as much as you deserve. There are ministers here who don't deserve to be correct, but we are. There are those who are trying to listen to all remarks by MPs and to the extent possible, in the common interest of Serbian citizens, to resolve them. You were talking about a new form of organization. I'm a graduate lawyer, you're, I think, an engineer of organizational sciences, but that doesn't matter, I won't argue with you about it, there's another system, and now we're one state and we accept part of the employees of the common state with Montenegro, so I call it that, so everyone can understand us. A colleague, Stevanovic, explained that this is not the figure, that it is not 20,000, as far as has now been objectively increased. You're not the only one to blame, when I say you, I don't mean personally to you, I mean your party in general, for a bulky administration at the republican level, but you've made a good contribution to make it to that extent. You say -- we want this law, it should be for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia. No, it's impossible. You say - we want to increase the number of employees, create a business environment to create new jobs. Well, Mrs. Kalanovic, you and those who, together with you, today and before you, have been doing this government, have been saying that since 2001. Do we have a situation like this today? Well, we don't. You can no longer convince anyone that these intentions are yours, because they are not true and so far nothing has been done to improve the employment situation. The National Employment Service is in the jurisdiction of your party, i.e. it is led by people who are members of the G17 Plus, but on the ground it is not such a situation to create new jobs. The NSZ can't end on its own, but the government can in general. Did she do it? It's not. You see the borrowings that this country is making, and today we're going to talk about it, so they're not focused on opening new jobs. Unfortunately, employment is getting smaller and smaller, and the number of people who are getting fired is getting bigger and bigger. We've had a situation like this, and that's where you have to show genuine intent. Jeremy Moody, consultant at the privatisation of JAT Airways, in one day – 2,500 euros. It's about the average salary of a Serbian citizen. Do you know what this relationship is? 1:365. Is that possible? Is that moral? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30835	Thank you, Mr. Perry. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. Here you go, Mr. Cholakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30836	Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister, representatives of the Government, honourable MPs, on behalf of the PUPS Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10 for two reasons. The first is to avoid subjectivism in the evaluation of workers by service managers. The second is to respect social partners in relation to the rights and obligations of workers. On this first question, I think it would have been very good if it had been heard by the legislators to accept the union's proposal, which I proposed in the form of an amendment, that, in the case of a worker, a right to protect workers, or trade unions, be able to give their opinion. As far as the second question is concerned, I do not think only one ministry can be determined to respect partner relations between the government, trade unions and employers. In principle, Mr Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, promised that all amendments related to this issue would be specifically discussed and that some amendments submitted by MPs concerning this law would be respected. I think the rest of the departments should respect that and have it in mind. The partnership relationship between the union, the government and the employer must be nurtured and promoted, and these are some European values we keep talking about. That's why I don't understand why there weren't conversations between unions and legislators and, secondly, why don't unions be respected as social partners? I think this applies to those ministries and those proposings who prepared this. Secondly, I will talk about when there is the next item of the agenda, i.e. the law on reducing the administration in local self-government, partner relations and opinions of workers' protectors, or unions, must be respected not only one, but all those who have been given this right to represent workers representatively. Therefore, the PUPS Parliamentary Group, on behalf of which I am submitting the amendment, is dissatisfied with the view not to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30837	Thank you, Mr. Cholakovic. Please tell me, is this minute and 40 seconds out of time to explain the amendments of the Parliamentary Group or of your time? From yours. Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic and Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30838	Thank you. Madam Minister, gentlemen of Parliament, Article 10 of Section 1 shows very clearly the difference between the legislator and what the DSS MPs were looking for in this law. Article 10 says: "The Heads of State Administration, public agencies and compulsory social security organisations and other authorised persons in those bodies, or organisations, in accordance with the law, are required to carry out quality checks on the work of employees within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law". So, you're planning to do so by the heads of state administration's authorities. They're doing quality work checks. The DSS MPs consider, and thus amend your Article 10(1), that the Heads of State Administration, public agencies and compulsory social security organisations and other authorised persons in those bodies, or organisations, in accordance with the law, are obliged to educate the Commission to verify the quality of work of employees within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the law. Commission members must be representatives of relevant trade unions. That's something the previous speaker said, Mr. Colakovic. We feel the same way. Your partners in this business, in determining quality, must be employees, or members of the relevant trade unions, because only the commission can be objective. You say you did not accept the amendment because it cannot be denied the right for managers to decide directly on the quality of the work of those whose work is responsible. Of course, but it was natural for them to build a commission that they could be on. This way, if they decide who doesn't work, who doesn't work well enough, you won't fire those who don't work, you won't fire those who don't work very well, you'll fire those who think for themselves and aren't in your political option. What we offer you is a criterion, gentlemen, and a division of responsibility, because in unions you have partners, and you have no rivals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30839	On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Đuro Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The word is Mr. Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30840	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment to Article 10, which I have submitted on behalf of the SPS Group, I will withdraw and explain why I am withdrawing it. I take it back for two reasons. First, because by submitting this amendment, we wanted it to be a union amendment, that what we are constantly insisting on, and that is the social dialogue between employers, trade unions and governments, to be a permanent category. And when there were stories in principle, supporting this law, we asked for the social dialogue between the government and the union to continue until the final solution to the final adoption of the law. Why did we suggest that? The characteristic of this law is that, when the excess staff is determined, it is done in two ways, Article 10, as a result of the assessment of civil servants, i.e. the determination of results in the case of tenants, and one number remains a surplus on that basis. There's one difference. When it comes to the tenants, when considering whether the employee is fulfilling the results, he does the results, whether it works well or not, if it does not work well, then he gets fired under Article 179(1) of the Labour Act. In that case, according to the law, it is possible that, when the employer warns the worker, he is obliged to obtain the union's opinion on this. The amendment was intended to do so in a similar way and when it comes to civil servants, again for two reasons. First of all, we think that the evaluation of civil servants is aimed at constantly improving the quality of work, and that is not something that just seems to be now, it makes sense that the results of the work of civil servants are always determined, that those who work well are affirmed and fired, that I use that expression, those who do not work well, so there is room for others who will work better. That is the essence of assessing the results of the civil servants. Given that, in particular, in this case, one way to reduce the administration, given the need for this government, which I believe, to do this job in the best and most honest way, should also provide for a safeguard clause that there will be no abuse. In that sense, the law would lose its meaning. Why am I withdrawing the amendment? For two reasons again. The first is because I believe this argument that was given, a meaningful explanation, and I don't have that dilemma. On the other hand, I continue to insist that this social dialogue of the social partners, in this case, the government and the union, must always be there until the end, and I mean, I am not a vain man, that Mr. Moma Colakovic's amendment is even more comprehensive. If there is a will to continue the social dialogue between the government and the union that and this safeguard clause, that there will be no abuse, I do not expect abuse, I do not believe that the government will do so, but it would be important to send a message that we have also protected ourselves in this way that these abuses will not be. Therefore, Mr. Moma Colakovic's amendment is more complete and quality, and I am not vain, so for these reasons, with respect to the arguments I have received, that the system law will be applied in this respect, I withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30841	One announcement -- meanwhile, the LDP parliamentary group has authorised a national MP, Vice-President of the Judita Popovic Assembly, to be the authorised representative. On Article 10, the amendment was tabled by a group of 20 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30842	We have submitted an amendment to Article 10, which treats the right of workers, if it can be called law, I would rather say wrongly, that when it is assessed as a civil servant by an under-evaluation and given a solution, this solution can be considered final and an administrative dispute can be brought against it. We're asking that the definition of finality be evaluated, because, in fact, the solution to the dismissal is deleted. The government's defense not to deny legal protection to someone who gets fired, by allowing him to conduct a administrative dispute, is simply ridiculous when you read the argument. Read what it says, or translate it into Serbian, or both? It is said that there is no appropriate application of system solutions regarding the legal protection of civil servants, given the number of solutions to be made and the expected number of procedures for the protection of rights based on those solutions. The translation is now going on – given that we are in a hurry and we know how many people we will fire, or give them an evaluation of one, taking into account the deadlines for decision-making, since the application of the legal institutes takes too long, and the government is in a hurry, then it is not possible, the government says, before the second-degree authorities to ensure the end of the procedure within the prescribed deadlines. Therefore, according to constitutional provisions, instead of the right to appeal, a lawsuit in the administrative dispute has been provided, and thus the control of the legality of the administrative act. So the government knows exactly how many people are going to get units, that is, the decision to fire. She has no time to wait for them to have the right to appeal and to conduct regular procedures, but she says – we do not deny them the right, go ahead, go to the administrative dispute, but you are no longer on the government payroll for us. What kind of savings is this at the expense of people's rights? What kind of savings is this for the government at the expense of legal proceedings, when we know that administrative disputes take too long and that in that time, a man has to eat, pay for the utility, to educate children? Even if he gets that too long dispute, even if he does, what's he gonna do? You know that these administrative procedures don't treat the essence of things at all, but, literally, some procedural failures. It doesn't matter what you call the law, this law isn't. You, even, in a month's time, have written to us the criteria for these 28,400 people. You did not explain the law, you said – that number and point. We all resent that there are no criteria, but now, in response to one amendment, after a month, you told us that this number of 28,400 is the relationship between the volume and the frequency of doing business in the district. Mr Dinkic said in an interview – I invited my assistants and they told me that they had obviously made sure that all employees do not have enough work. Here you say – it has not been a good relationship so far, we are establishing a new one, between the volume and frequency of doing business from the workplace. This is offensive. For me, it's terrible to go out here with something that, in fact, is a regulation, which you've normally done to regulations, as you've been sharing money, subsidies and everything you've done, but you've come out to share responsibility with this assembly for something that has no criteria at all; systems will just be passed, penalties exist who don't publish on the Internet presentation how many people they work, and they don't say what agencies they are, which are the organs they refer to, etc. Mrs. Kalanovic, I don't want to talk to you, I want to ask the citizens to imagine who the author of that number of 8,000 employees, or 28,000, or 30,000, and who spends most of the political power ahead, and in fact does how it works for him and them? That second one is the echelon of the state administration. Am I allowed, Chairman, to ask if Mrs. Kalanovic is sitting next to Vesna Kovac? Is this Vesna Kovac, Secretary of the Ministry of Industry, in 1998 and 1999, when we were in government? No, you didn't, but you were the finance minister, perhaps, who signed a contract with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development when the Flight Control Directorate, or the Agency, received 45 million loans. You're not even that Vesna Kovac? Is that just coincidence? You're not that one either. Some people, such as Ministry of Finance Secretary, Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, yesterday – Industry Ministry, are called the same Vesna Kovac, Mr. Misa Bek registered a stake in the company "Dalija" on the basis of the paper on which he says - I promise to invest two million to repair the roof in the company "Dalija". Jorvanka Tabakovic, Minister of Economic and Property Transformation, and Minister of Industry Luka Mitrovic, filed the motion to invest, which Kljajevic included in the Business Court on time, as a real role later. It's not a radio minister, it's done by another team of people, who change ministers the way governments are replaced, which makes laws like this, mocking citizens, lower employees, mocking the authorities. It's done by a team of people sitting in agencies who you're protecting here, who are out of the public's sight, with huge privileges, the salaries they get at the expense of the jobs that the government and this assembly give them, and it's really not right for you to share your responsibility with the Assembly. Not ministers, but those who prepare such laws for them, and the surface of ministers, the Secretariat of Law, is obvious through the unconstitutional laws that we receive, I repeat, the Law on Expropriation, the Law on the Judicial Academy, which is also not constitutional in many provisions. Although ministers are expert in certain resolutions and jobs, the people they choose and do have to know individual laws in their fingers, not to bring them to the Assembly to mock Serbia's citizens together, as far as this is done superficially and irresponsiblely, whose backs will be broken by such a law, to which you hand the document, grade 1 – go to your children and tell them that you do not work. How many years has the government had an obligation to evaluate twice a year, to get to know the employee's assessment once a year? How is it that in a month's time the evaluation should decide someone's fate? Who let that happen? And is this the only way to save, or is this and such a directorate, which Mr Ilic, who has now mentioned from the Agency, or from JAT, received a huge plot to build a facility by the credit that I mention and who accidentally signed your namemaker in 2005, in February, while it was the state union of Serbia-Montenegro? Who guarantees the loan of 45 million European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and 35 million European Investment Bank, that someone private builds, spends, earns, and is not controlled without the state being guaranteed? Change these associates and dismiss them with this law, not people to whom you will inhumanely, unprofessionally and superficially quit and leave them without the means to live.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30843	Mrs. Tabakovic, let me ask you, this time of...? (Jorganka Tabakovic: Since the time of the authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group. ) From an authorised representative. In that case, you used the time of the authorized representative. Thank you. On Article 10, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Arsen Đuric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milos Aligrudic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30844	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, you can see what the minister's advantage is over the MPs, he can have coffee whenever he wants. We don't have that privilege and privilege. The fact is that in the Republic administration there will be around 28,400 workers, which provides for this law and that around 2,800 workers will lose their jobs. I'll remind you, Madam Minister, that the first rationalization was made in 2005 when you were in that government. It is the first government of Vojislav Kostunica. At that time, more than 2,900 workers left on a voluntary basis. A total of 3,165 left. In this law that we're talking about today, there's no such thing as volunteering. In fact, the government has decided to deal with its political inexperiences, and this law is a suitable ground for such a thing, by introducing an extraordinary evaluation. On one amendment submitted by the Parliamentary Group to Article 10, said Mrs Milica Vojic-Markovic, and I will talk about Article 10 of the 4th and 4a, about the protection of workers by the socially responsible government. We predicted that after receiving the grade, within seven days an employee or worker has the right to appeal to that commission. We said the best thing to do is to have union representatives on that committee, and only then, after we've exhausted these things, can the administrative dispute be brought on. We think this amendment is of great quality and good quality and that social partners would agree with that, with which you did not have a conversation on this law. We also said that it was good for this law to be withdrawn from the procedure and that a certain public debate would go through again, where all relevant factors would be met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30845	Thank you, Mr. Pejcic. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs. Vesna Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30846	We have submitted an amendment to this article 11 and I will read how it should be read and how the government has proposed the law. We, in fact, insist that in the process of determining the status of an unscheduled civil servant, then, establishing that there is no place of employment where the employer can be moved, or deployed, and determining that the employment of the employee ceases the need in the public agency or the compulsory social security organisation, taking into account the exclusive results of the work. The proposal for this law says, just to mention this last sentence - the results of work and property are taken into account. You see, we've been asking for "and property" to be kicked out of this article, not because we don't think it's important, when discussing these things, to have in mind some social status, the property of the employees who are left out of work, but because this property is putting in a very vague criterion. Do you take family condition, do you take your husband's condition, your wife's condition? Are you taking any mobile or immovable property? It's just not clear enough. It can be very easy to take an indefinite property as the main criterion, and the results of work, which are most important, are completely annulled by covering it with some kind of property. So, without explaining this property situation, what is understood by that, it cancels out and can cancel out the "results of work" criterion. Surely, for us, for this difficult decision, the most important thing is to consider the results of the work. I'll give you different examples where someone can own an asset that's completely dead. For example, I am the heiress, among many heirs, of some house in Novi Sad, where no one lives, which is in a protected, ambienceal part, where there are no constituencies, nor can be sold. It will eventually belong to the city of Novi Sad, none of that property has any, and I can be considered to have property and that it is some kind of property. You have a series of possibilities for this dead property, which can be used in cases like this and fired by a worker under a company of assets, without repealing the'results of work' criterion. Especially as we know, and we already have this information in various services, say, at the National Employment Service, that they are sent exclusively to the list of people who are not members of G17 plus, and a large number of these employees have come by boarding and filling Vladimir Ilic and your other associates, meaning, on the party line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30847	Mrs. Pesic, thank you. Time's long gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30848	I could've used the time of the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30849	It's all out, and the time of the Parliament Group, and your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30850	Okay. In any case, I think this relativisation has only contributed to strengthening the party criteria for firing employees from the workplace.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30851	Please don't throw away, Mr. Krassic. It's not fair, it's not nice. On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Gordan Rajkov. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mrs. Gordana Rajkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30852	Dear Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, members of the Government, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, an amendment that I submitted to Article 11, which was to ensure that one of the things to be taken into account in determining the number of employees, other than the results of work and property, would be belonging to one of the particularly protected categories, such as single parents, pregnant women, employed women who are pregnant or on maternity leave, persons with disabilities and others, had the purpose of ensuring that these categories, which have already been introduced in that regime, were still protected, i.e. those factors are taken into account. Since the Committee on Labour, Employment and Social Policy has discussed this issue and the Committee has formulated a new amendment, which should explain and ensure that there will be general labour regulations, in the manner and scope of these regulations, I am withdrawing this amendment and voting in favour of the amendment of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30853	Thank you too, Mrs. Rykov. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Petronijevic Milisav.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30854	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, support for the amendment of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy and an explanation of why I support this amendment will be the reason for me to give up my amendment, which is next, but I still want to explain what this is about. In principle, we supported this bill to determine the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration. We supported it, starting with a single step, one part of the necessary public administration reform, which aims to provide efficient, quality, rational, cheap administration, which will work in the interests of citizens and businesses, based on detailed analysis, organisation of the work of all bodies and organisations, from ministries to agencies, all the regulations that exist, and not to list further, because it affects the number of employees in the administration, therefore, only as part of it, and not as a mere discharge of people, but as part of the overall reform. It's the only way we accept, unfortunately, that this has more people than is necessary as a consequence. As we come to the fact that there are a number of people who are overweight compared to the whole job, we feel it is very important to do this job in the best possible way, honestly and socially just to the end, clearly, in front of the citizens of Serbia. We have a whole series of criteria, a series of moves, that we've been making when it comes to a principle debate. We believe that the first, not to say the basics, which must be present when determining whether there will be so many, or already how many jobs, must be a criterion – the general usefulness of that job. It is the first criterion that should determine which jobs exist, whether this job should exist, whether it does business in the interests of citizens, in the interest of the economy. The second criterion is whether it is carried out professionally, whether it is carried out by an expert, in an efficient, best way. These are the results of the work. We know, it's a system of state administration, very important, and it's very important to provide a quality fit for doing these jobs. Of course, something like that needs to be done in some other ways, not just through this. What we insisted on, and that was the subject of our amendment, is that when both the first and second criteria are met, there must be a third criterion, which is the protection of particularly endangered categories. This is, by the way, an obligation arising from the general regulation – the Labour Act, where the categories of employees who enjoy special protection, especially sensitive categories of employees, are specified on the one hand, to prevent possible abuses. We believe that this must be a necessary criterion, and in this sense we have proposed an amendment that lists all the categories that we believe must enjoy protecting them from doing the job. Given that at the meeting of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy, an amendment has been adopted that covers everything we have proposed through our amendment, as well as what Honorable colleague Gordana Rajkov has proposed, which is divided here, which includes all of this, I am withdrawing mine and I support the amendment of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy. Just for a little while, what's the matter? I'll use the time I have as an authorised representative. It was provided by law to take care of the results of work and property. In addition to our proposal and the proposal of respected Gordana Rajkov to protect the special category, the Government explained, among other things, that the protection of special categories of employees in the authorities of the state administration is ensured by the application of general rules on work, in a manner and in the scope of those regulations. The Committee took a position, precisely, relying on the amendment to the following – that, taking into account the results of the work and the property, the following words are added: "in accordance with the application of the general rules on work both in the manner and in the scope of those regulations". We think that's the fairest thing. They are already listed in those regulations. We believe that the proposer should put this into law. At the session, when he discussed the issue, I mean, unanimously, I'm not sure, he adopted the amendment. He proposes that the Assembly adopt him and I give full support to that amendment, and for these very reasons I withdraw mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30855	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. It is my duty, however, to conclude that MP Milisav Petronijevic withdrew his amendment to Article 11 of the Law. On Article 12, the amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic and Mirko Munjic. The word is Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30856	I asked for Article 12 to be deleted, which says: 'The public administration, public agencies and compulsory social security organisations may, within six months of the entry into force of the Act on the Systematization of Jobs under Article 9 of this Act, fill the vacancy of the vacancy beyond the restrictions set out in Article 182. The labour law. In this short time alone, I would refer to the government's argument, that is, to some part of the reasoning, given that the government has given a very interesting explanation. First, the government says that accepting this amendment would have adverse consequences. There is no justification for this, the adverse consequences have already occurred long ago, and this has multiple adverse consequences. First, they occurred by the fact that the state apparatus has increased multiple since 2000, as we have seen, from 8,000 to more than 30,000. Somewhere around 2,600, 2,700 people have crossed from the then federal administration, so over 22,000, 23,000 members of the administration have increased during this period. Secondly, by being in power since then, there has been an even greater consequence, as you will be for some time. This is the result or even greater, especially since these laws give you a real chance to imitate the state administration and to accommodate your party interests. An explanation for not accepting amendments – that it should leave the possibility for a new reception of officers with special skills, too, can have a double meaning – or so far you have not had those personnel who have these special skills, so now, with some subsequent intelligence, you have managed to reach these staffs, or this is also the place to receive party personnel. If it's any of this, it's not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30857	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Petronijevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30858	I've made an amendment to Article 12 for the following reasons. I simply want us to come up with the best solutions through dialogue, because I think it makes sense that my warning is not to accept it, and, I admit, it is also a sense of the government's explanation that it wants to ensure greater quality, to create an opportunity for greater quality. I urge you to take another look at this, especially if there is no such member in the next law, a law on determining the maximum number in the local administration. What's it about, to make it clear to all of us. Article 182. The labour law says that "if the employment contract is cancelled by employers employed in the case referred to in Article 179(9) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,", which is when it comes to technological surpluses due to organizational changes etc., as, otherwise, what we talked about earlier means, "the employer can't hire another person on the same jobs within six months of the day the work relationship ends". What was the intensity? The intensities were that the government took the employer seriously that, when it determines and brings systematicisation, when it determines the technological surplus, pay attention and in the most serious way it does; that was the essence. The government here has proposed not to apply that member. I think it makes sense when the government says it's an opportunity to improve the quality of work, but, at the same time, the government has to make sure it doesn't dissipate the objective of this law, which is to determine how many jobs are needed optimally for the functioning of the republican administration. You can make an impression, I don't believe they're doing it on purpose, that the moment the government does it, but the day after tomorrow, it opens up a new job that it previously abolished, and then people lose confidence in something like that. If a combination had been made with the goal of saying that it couldn't, and if, by chance, such a possibility appeared, new jobs, etc., etc., then they had the advantage of those who remained unscheduled, etc., that would make sense. The bottom line is, consider, think again, not to send a message, and I'm sure the government has no intention, that as soon as the systematization is adopted, jobs can be opened, the same ones that have been abolished, on the basis of which people have become technologically excess. It's especially irrelevant if the law determines the maximum number of employees of 28,400, so you make as many agencies as you want, the organization as you want, everything that comes to mind to be made, that's maximum, and that's actually the value of this law. I ask you once again to look at this, for the simple reason that we send the most serious message to the public that we have no intention of devising this law in any way, nor to question that we will do anything in the best possible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30859	Thank you. On Article 12, the amendment was tabled by a group of 20 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mr. Zoran Antic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30860	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS has submitted an amendment to Article 12, and I can fully agree with my colleagues' argument, but if the government has not already decided to delete this member of the law, it could accept at least the SNS amendment, under which the deadline foreseen for filling jobs, from six months, extends to 12 months. We believe that, above all, the question should be asked whether any of the jobs provided for in the systematization are necessary or not, and that only on the basis of the answer to this question can it be approached to fill the job. It seems to us that the key question that these jobs in the state administration and in the country of Serbia will today, after six months, be unfulfilled? So many parties, so much interest, so many unemployed, is it possible that any high-quality job, which requires higher education, professionalism, is unfulfilled? We believe that these jobs for which we do not have adequate personalities, meaning, which require professionals, will remain unfulfilled, well, in order to improve the quality of the state administration, that deadline, which is 6 months, should be extended to 12 months, in order to guarantee that we will reach a better quality state administration. It's probably about a hundred, 200, 300 jobs that will be unfulfilled. I'm sure the seats of the clerk, the driver, the porter will be filled in within three days, not within six months, and that won't be enough. But the quality of our state administration is, however, low-level. This also shows the state of our country, as well as the mass of laws that come into the congregation, to which MPs have many objections. What the promoter has given in law, I would say, is one false concern about the people's money, a false solidarity with the citizens of Serbia. The fact is that in 2008, every average citizen singled out some 156,000 dinars through various taxes, through various taxes, and that citizens are very dissatisfied with the quality of services provided by the state sector. So a third of these couples went to the public sector, and we don't have adequate quality when it comes to state administration. Citizens don't make a problem when it comes to professionals, when it comes to higher education people, I'm sure they don't make a big problem when it comes to their salaries. If we are to be honest, they are, above all, not satisfied with the political elite, they are not satisfied with us, the bearers of political power at all levels, and in our incomes, they find cause for dissatisfaction in our privileges. I am sure that if you accepted this amendment of the SNS, you would not have the dissatisfaction of citizens, on the contrary, you would have a better quality state administration and the possibility that it would be professionalised in the right sense, which is a fundamental pledge to the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30861	Thank you. On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30862	It is rare to notice that something as pointless as Article 13. Here, to make sure the audience understands what this is about, it's about a member that's been written that a judge for violations will punish the minister for being up to 31. On 12th of this year, no systematisation rules were adopted in accordance with the number prescribed by the Government. It is written and, of course, citizens laugh, first because the law is not applied to ministers, and the head of the state administration is none other than the minister, the one who adopts the rules on the systematization of jobs. This isn't the only nonsense in this law. This law is completely pointless, for one simple reason why someone came up with a variant of how to buy this time, that the government might share with Parliament something that is in the government's exclusive jurisdiction. The organisation of the State Administration's work is something that, under the Constitution, is defined as an executive function, something that belongs to law enforcement, law enforcement, and it's in the sole jurisdiction of the government and the ministries. They figured out a way to get us into this story, to share some responsibility, to make as much confusion as possible, and it's obvious that those who did this little bit used something which is our overrich experience, if not this for the past 15-20 years, then something that was 30 years ago, when we had a pretty well-organized state administration and regulated state officials status. Or, if they're already so keen on Europe, they could use, say, French and Italian experiences. In France and Italy, it's usually said that civil servants are gentlemen. Why? Because they are not affected by any economic change or problems in the countries concerned. Why is the state protecting its officers? It's because of professionalism. It's a very complicated procedure to get to the state service, but when they get to the state service, then they're in Italy'sinors', and when they're in France, they've been a teacher, a teacher or someone who works in some of the very important ministries. Of course, in these countries the minister is changing and, possibly, the assistants, but the civil servants are not changing. The highest civil servant, for example, is the Secretary General of the Senate. He's a 30-and-a-half-year civil servant. The authorities change, he doesn't change. Who accepts the employment relationship of civil servants? An absolutely impartial, professional commission freed any political influence. You know, that's Serbia's problem now. When a frog sees the horses weave, she'd be happy to lift her leg and get a horseshoe to look like a horse, but she can't. That's why this is a ridiculous law, a ridiculous law, a law that solves nothing, and the name of the law itself is pointless. It's like a law on imaginary numbers. For the first time, I'm telling you, based on some great experience of mine, I can see that there's a law with a number, a maximum number. What's that for? It's a pure enforcement function, something that had to be arranged in a completely different way, first of all, by regulations, by sublegal acts. You now have the State Administration Organization Office. Let me just draw your attention to one more thing. In this copying, or the wealth of ideas on how to reduce the number of civil servants, you forgot one thing, that all acts on the systematization of jobs in ministries give consent to the government. In this Article 13, you have prescribed a special offence and a law enforcement operation, where the one against whom a misdemeanor would have to be held would have had to be held accountable also because someone had not done a job before, which is completely absurd. To draw attention to you, Serbia's legal system only a few years ago, about seven or eight years ago, introduced the possibility that, on the basis of official duty and the conduct of work within the state authority, an officer may be held liable, but at a much lower level, at the level of a state official, and you have prescribed here that he is in violation of the ministerial duties - minister. It's completely pointless. What is the purpose of this bill, it will not be clear to anyone alive. It would be better for you to withdraw this law nicely and make sure there's no history of any trace of it. If you're really stuck, I have to tell you, well, this law can be passed. When you start falling apart, to fail, you fall apart. State officials who do their job well don't care. Why aren't they worried? Not because, eventually, they will stay, but because they know that if you throw them out, they will remain ignorant and similar people in the service, and then you will see how you will charge taxes, how you will charge any other obligations that are the income of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30863	Thank you. On Article 13, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mr. Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30864	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Article 13 submitted by the SNS MPs reads: "Article 13(1) deletes the point at the end of the sentence and the text is added below: "and if it does not act in accordance with Article 6(2) of this Law. “ Article 13 adds Article 2, which reads: “A person who receives a special fee or a gift contrary to Article 2(3) of this Law and a responsible person of the payer will be punished with a fine of ten times the amount of compensation or gifts paid. ” The amendment refers to the criminal measure to the Heads of State Administration, the Public Agency, the Obligatory Insurance Organisation, unless they adopt an act on the systemisation of jobs and in accordance with the Government's act. The reason for the refusal of the amendment is that the amendment is not accepted because an amendment containing a material provision which requires a prohibition of action to be sanctioned by this amendment is not accepted. Of course, the amendment has not been accepted, as it concerns the amendment to Article 2 submitted by the SNS Parliamentary Group, which concerns the ban on receiving special fees and gifts for performing double functions in the authorities of the Republic of Serbia. You simply don't want to accept the amendments because they refer to you, your party colleagues, and you don't want there to be members of the law that you wouldn't respect anyway, so why would you stand by the law, because if you don't stand by the law, you can't even break them. To me, the rejection of these amendments is quite clear, and what is it to say to the citizens of Serbia? That they have an immoral government, which is more important for officials to receive two or more salaries or compensations than the state of Serbia will have 10,000 hungry mouths after the adoption and application of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30865	On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. On the basis of Article 85(1), Rules of Procedure, we interrupt the work and continue at 15 hours, 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on determining the maximum number of employees in the local administration. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we begin work in the afternoon session. Before opening a search in detail on the 11th item of the agenda, I will remind you of the time available to parliamentary groups in the context of the previously united principled debate on the 9th, 10th and 11th agenda, and before the search in the details of the 11th point, the bill we had in the united debate in principle. The PUPS parliamentary group has a total time of MPial group and 13 minutes and 15 seconds – authorised representative; MP group of minorities, total time; Parliament group of New Serbia – three minutes from Parliament's time; MP group of LDPs has the time of authorised representative, i.e. the president of the parliamentary group; the SPS-JS Group has 16 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the Parliament's group; the PPG Group has 15 minutes and 45 seconds from the MP group; the DSS Group has 19 minutes from the time of the MP's group and two minutes and 10 seconds for the authorised representative; the G17 Group has a total time; the SRS parliamentary group has five minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the MP group; the ZES Group has a total time of authorised representatives and 91 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the Parliament's group. I am informing the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 85, that we will be working after 18 hours today, by searching the details of the agenda point that at that moment is subject to our consideration. We move to the 11th point of the agenda – PROPOST OF THE LAW ABOUT THE DEDJAVANJAVANJAVENJAK OF MAXIMALY MANAGES IN LOCAL ADMINISTRAC (individuals) You received amendments submitted by the MPs Momo Čolaković, Vjerica Rade; together, Tomislav Niković, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Zoran Mašić, Zoran Babić, Igor Ričić, Jelena Miladović, Božidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović and Dragan Čolić; Together, Pristrag Mijavić, Mirić, Žažana Miladić, Mirjanović, Mirjavić, Mirjavić, Mirjavić, Mila Pošarić, Milalje Poš, Gojko Radko Radić, Gojko Radić, Gojko Radić, Mić, Mićo Radić, Mić, Milić, Vić and Dragan Žrić and Dragan Čović and Dragan Čović and Dragan Čović. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. National MP Susana Grubjesic, written in writing, withdrew the amendments she submitted to the article. Eight and ten. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30867	Ladies and gentlemen, this time I really need to speak to the citizens of Serbia, because we are talking about another proposal from the RS government that will leave a number of people out of work. The law, which we discussed in the afternoon section, will leave about 2,500 people in the state administration without a job, and this bill provides that about 10,000 people will be out of work in all municipalities in Serbia, counting on, for example, the municipality of Kursumli, who has become known there to buy cigarettes per piece, that no one there is working except for a number of people working in local self-government, the MUP, the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, who will also be moved from Kursumli, so that some people who have received some wages can now expect that the government of Boris Tadic has prepared their cancellations. Article 1 speaks of whom all this law covers, or where everything must be reduced, but says this does not apply to public enterprises. We in the SRS believe that this is a major abuse and that, in essence, it says that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not intend to reduce public spending, but rather intends to drive people who do not respond politically from local self-government, as well as from the state administration, and yet, as Article 3 of this proposal provides, on the basis of a contract of work, through youth cooperatives, etc., to employ 10% of the total number. So again, the needs of local party committees, regime parties will be met, and the people who have gained great experience will be jobless and, unfortunately, with experience gained in local self-government, they have no place to work anymore. This is the government's relationship with Serbia's government, the punitive attitude towards Serbian citizens, and the government says the amendment is not accepted, among other things, because it says it refers to those legal persons who are fully, or predominantly, financed from budget funds. In this respect, public undertakings are exempt from the application of this law, i.e. restrictions, given that they provide services in the exercise of activity with the payment of the prescribed price and that they are mainly financed. This in one part is true, as far as funding is concerned, but it is also true that the largest number of abuses is precisely in public enterprises, that party personnel are employed there, that there are determined salaries that are not even in line with all these restrictive measures that are being implemented in Serbia until today. Besides, the best example is Bojan Kristo, his salary, which is higher than the salary of all the employees in Kursumlia, but we never got a report of a financial inspection on it, nor did anyone lack hair from their heads because of it. So, this law is one big con, one big abuse, and this law will leave 10,000 people out of work, which the SRS is most strongly opposed to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30868	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30869	The Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS, submitted an amendment to Article 1 requesting the removal of members' works, which means that this law on the restriction of the number of employees in the local administration does not apply to institutions financed from the budget (except institutions in the field of education, health and pre-school institutions), companies and other forms of organisation whose only founder is local self-government units (other than public enterprises) and which are financed from the budget. So, a very inaccurate provision and a definition of what a local administration is. Perhaps local self-government has decided that part of the maintenance of municipal infrastructure works through some kind of company that it has organised without being called public enterprises. It will be punished because of such maintenance, e.g. municipal infrastructure, because if it is not called a public enterprise, it has no exception. The government of the Republic of Serbia, within the Republic administration, has excluded this category of institutions and companies. Even in the last issue of "Official Messenger" she established another advisory institution – for agricultural services, now in Prokuplje, and previously in Novi Pazar, calling on the government's right to establish a company under the Business Society Act, in the form of D.O.O. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia can in Prokuplje, for what reasons, set up a company of companies, to whom it provides funds for work, fully budget finance it, increasing the number of employees, and at a local level, it says that even in such areas there must be a limited number of employees. Who will respect a state that imposes rights on themselves and others only obligations? Can I speak affirmatively of a law in which the government looks only at itself, looking at its front row, its businesses, its friends, its coalition partners, and what is far from its eyes, not away from its heart, but away from the law? Article 179. The Constitution allows local self-government to regulate the exercise of power in its own way and in accordance with its needs and capabilities. This member of the law annuls it. Is it possible to extract from this member of the law what it is to determine the enterprises financed, i.e. the form of an organization financed from the budget? Maybe it's not funding entirely, maybe it's a company, or some company, form of organization, partly financed from its own income, and part of the budget. This article does not show and will produce many problems in application. Although, in general, it is not a good solution, it will, and this bad, create an option, which is almost the rule of law when it comes to interpreting who is seeking opinion and rule as a guide to law enforcement. It is even more funny in the explanation that the government said that when it decided to arrange a reduction in the number of employees, it came from an analysis of the number of employees in the local administration in the Republic of Serbia and in cities and municipalities in EU countries. Gentlemen, friends, colleagues, isn't this a little much for the moment we're in? You'll tell some southern Serbian municipality - we've come from what Europe is. When you don't want to limit your salaries to the Civil Aviation Directorate, where a certain Vesna Kovac signed a loan agreement to 45m euros, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, you say -- these are salaries that are in line with international conventions. Well, is the traffic policeman on the roads of Serbia, or the one in charge of river navigation, and that's the international route, receiving salary in accordance with international criteria, as you allowed him to be in the Civil Aviation Directorate? Please accept this amendment and exclude this type of restriction from the restrictions on the number of employees in the local administration, because these municipalities will decide on their own whether it is important for them to have a larger number of employees, but less technically perfect devices, computers and equipment to work with, because it is more important for them to work and receive salaries. The way they're going to do business for their citizens is their obligation and their right and the government can't be their tutor at all times.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30870	It's been used three minutes and 45 seconds since Parliament's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Djuric, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Lapčević submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Arsen Djuric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30871	The Honored Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS Group has tabled a series of amendments proposing that this law regulate the procedure for determining the maximum number of employees in the local administration. So the same thing as the previous law, because we don't think a serious, thorough analysis based on how many employees should be in the local administration. In fact, only one criterion was used when determining the maximum number of employees, which is the number of inhabitants. We think it's inconclusive, because every local self-government has certain specificities, which I'm going to talk about a little bit later. The DSS considers it necessary to streamline the municipal administration, i.e. local self-government, that it must be planned, systemically and deprived of any party colour. I'm afraid this is not how the proposed law would do it. As I said, no detailed analysis and basic criteria were performed, or the only criterion was the number of inhabitants. In order to carry out a successful rationalisation, the only criterion cannot be the number of residents in a particular municipality, but must take into account certain specific features of the functioning of local self-government and individual, for each municipality, the number of employees, i.e. the maximum number of employees in local self-government. The problems, i.e. specificities in operation, are conditioned not only by the number of inhabitants and by the scope of jurisdiction, depending on whether it is a city or a municipality, but also by the size of territory, the resolution of settlements, economic development, investment in infrastructure, the size of the budget and the various other elements that are important to achieve the optimal number of employees in the local administration in order to make it efficient, cheap and citizen service. Since I come from Zlatibor, i.e. from the Municipality of Chatin, I want to ask a question – is anyone thinking about municipalities in whose territory are tourist centers? About Zlatibor, Kopalnik, Soko Banja, Vranjska Banja? Do you know that in these tourist centres there are, in particular, over 5,000 objects on Zlatibor, whose owners do not live in the territory of the Čajetin municipality, but also have certain needs, and local self-government is obliged to serve these people in various things, from the solution to the property tax, work permits, etc.? Do you know how many requirements there are for legalization, how many requirements for building permits, for use permits, for acts on urban conditions, and for various other things that local self-government must serve for those people who are not its residents? Do you know that in these tourist centers, in a few months of the year, all small towns, of 20-25.000, have certain needs and that local self-government must serve? No one considered it, but the number of inhabitants, which is totally unacceptable. In these tourist centers, or municipalities on whose territory they are, a significant number of construction inspectors, municipal inspectors, communal directors are needed. It takes even more of these officers than in one city of 100,000 inhabitants. That's not at all considered. In these tourist municipalities there are tourist organizations that employ a number of people, while other municipalities, for example, which have no tourist resources, have no established tourism organisations at all, nor have the need to be founded – cultural centres, sports centres that organise a series of events and events. Some municipalities don't have to have, or may have fewer employees, unlike these municipalities that have more activity of that kind. All of this was to be analysed before the law was on the agenda. What is offensive is the government's response which explains that this amendment is not accepted. Among other things, he says that this is our solution proposed in the amendment that is irrational, unnecessary, harmonizes with the way to settle issues that need to be regulated without delay, that it is not effective. In our amendments, we also provided for very short deadlines in which these analyses would be carried out and the law would be passed. It is two months, depending on the government and its effectiveness, for what it could be done, but in one valid way. I want to say that in 2005, the Ministry of Finance made a decision to freeze wages in local self-government. It was not taken into account at that time whether all municipalities had complied with the previous regulations, i.e. the rules governing salaries, but the freezing of wages was carried out at the level found. We now have in various municipalities across Serbia examples that an official working on the same referendum has twice as much salary as his colleague in another municipality in Serbia, which is unacceptable. Because that's when it was done "over-the-knee," casually, without some analysis, so I'm afraid this law will cause similar consequences. I urge you once again to accept these amendments and to rightly address the issue of rationalising officials in local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30872	The time used by the Parliament Group is three minutes and 40 seconds. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Lapčević together submitted the amendment to Article 2. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30873	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS, as you have just heard from Mr Đuric, has submitted to this law a set of consistent amendments, with the same idea as on the previous one, which is to determine the procedure, that is, the procedure in which the maximum number of employees in local self-governments will be determined and established. As I was saying earlier, the DSS doesn't mind making the local administration effective, making it rational, so it doesn't cost the state and the citizens a lot of money, but to do it in a uniform way, according to one procedure. This procedure comes from the municipality proposing how many employees it thinks it should have, and then that the Government, respecting the same criteria, respecting all other diversity that naturally exists among municipalities, determines that number and then implement, again, the procedure for how to reach that number, possibly, ways of firing workers, protecting them in case they are before retirement, etc. Our basic objection in the previous law was number 28,400 thrown out of the sleeve, and in this law, the number of four employees per thousand. First of all, I don't see any reason why "four" couldn't have been "three", "three and a half," "five," or "I don't know what other number. I don't know. Of course, even then, if this were to be an initial criterion, some additional criteria and additional corrective factors should be introduced to correct this criterion. I know the government has proposed some, I'm afraid, quite a power given to corrective factors. You can't see why they're exactly like that, but it's quite clear that it's necessary. On the one hand, there are some jobs in some municipalities, you have just heard from Mr Đurić, for example, municipalities dealing with tourism and which serve a much larger number of citizens than the number that resides in the municipality. But there are other things. There are some basics that are completely equal, it was a municipality of 5,000 or 50,000 inhabitants. You must have, for example, the funeral service, regardless of whether you had one funeral a day or 100 funerals a day. You have to make a variety of assurances, no matter how many appropriate services they have, what the population of that municipality is. Now I can list you a large number of jobs that don't depend at all on how many municipalities there are, they don't depend at all. It also calls for some EU standards. I explained earlier that there are many things you cannot measure with the EU. On the one hand, we are poorer, on the other hand, the EU has done some of its work long ago, and we, including local self-government, have yet to do. A lot of things that have been working in the EU for a decade and more have yet to work with us. In doing so, there is another fact, which is that two-thirds of Serbia's municipalities, as the only employed citizens, have citizens who work in state services. However, that is where I count those whom this law does not touch. It's the police, the judiciary, health care, education, and local self-government. Besides them, no one in those municipalities works anymore. I'm not talking about some miniature municipalities, I'm even talking about some cities, such as the Svilian. There are such cities yet, where nothing, besides government work, exists. What is this people going to live on, Mrs. Kalanovic? I'll go back to our proposal. A whole series of amendments we have submitted are to establish a precise procedure that will lead to the identification of the number of employees in the local administration in one logical and normal way. This can all be done relatively quickly, and then we'll see what the criteria are, whether it's going to be four per thousand, whether it's going to be another number and how it's going to be corrected. Thank you. I spent a minute and 40 seconds on a group account, if I'm not mistaken, or 50. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30874	Anyone else want a word? If not, the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic to Article 2. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Momo Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30875	[[Disabled microphone.]] [[Zoran Shami, from the place: We can't hear him, a broken microphone.]] Can we do it now? Thank you. I must once again express my dissatisfaction with the bill's proposer, the unions and our amendments. We've submitted five amendments in agreement with the unions. I remind you once again that Minister Ljajic here, during a principled debate on these laws, has pledged to pay particular attention to amendments relating to the position and role of the union in relation to the protection of workers. The opposition has submitted a large number of amendments. We put up with what I said, six. The unions have stood behind these amendments, and I now do not understand why the legislator rejected them – is it because of the opposition, because of the PUPS, or because of the union? I will only comment on this amendment, and I will not take my word for the other amendments. In fact, before the start of this debate, we received a proposal for an amendment from the Committee on Justice and Administration, which essentially only convinces and confirms the amendment that we have submitted. It is said that in the unit of local self-government where more than 2% of refugees and displaced persons live and, moreover, that local self-government units that form local police, or municipal police, can receive more. We have said in our amendment that, given this, it can increase the number of employees per thousand, from four to five. When you add that up, that's it. I don't think that's right and it's not right to work that way. Whether it's one ministry or another, or one co-worker or another, it doesn't matter much. It must be very clear, precise and unique before this parliament, because the government is offering the law. For this reason, I would once again warn that it would be good to have in mind the position and role of negotiators, negotiating partners – state, unions and employers, and with more hearing respect of the organisation, that organ, i.e. A union that protects its workers. Once again, I express my dissatisfaction with the way the proposing has done with regard to the amendments we have submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30877	A moment of extra time from the time of the authorised representative. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? If not, the amendment was submitted to Article 2 by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Marinkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30878	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, an amendment that I have submitted to Article 2, which reads as Article 2(1). The bill on determining the maximum number of employees in the local administration, after saying "the last census", adds the words "counted for by the methodology of earlier censuses". I fully welcome the government's desire and intention to balance the efficiency and number of people working and costs they produce by rationalising and reducing the number of local self-government workers. I believe that the amendment I have submitted is in agreement with this tendency. However, in an explanation, I have received an answer that the amendment is not accepted by the Government, because it seems inaccurate and creates a misunderstanding about the period from which the data is taken. I really have a misunderstanding, because according to that 2002 census, for example, the municipality from which I originate, Svilajnac, has 25,511 inhabitants, and 26,813 voters. This means that a total of 7.586 inhabitants, which would be the number of 33,000 people, would be the basis on which to mathematically calculate how many four people have passed through. If that were to be calculated, we'd have 4.1 change of employees per thousand, which would fit this bill. However, people who work abroad, which are taxpayers, who pay municipal taxes, pay property taxes, the same administration serves by sending them tax-paying solutions and other administrative measures, issue documents. Here, now we had, during the summer, the situation that because of this large number of people working abroad, the municipal administration had to work both Saturdays and Sundays. These people really exist, in terms of the administration service provided to them. If the base was something else, I'd understand, but I think it's a mathematical miscalculation based on real population. What I may be a little bit more concerned about, is that this list of 25,000 people can produce in the future a much larger, more serious repression, or damage, which will be seen in the reduction of the number of doctors working in a health home, the number of teachers, in rationalization. In any case, given that the law is based, let me say, on a voluntary basis, that it does not have to be fired, but that the basis of that level of transfer that will be transferred to municipalities, I believe that the Government could think again and that even fellow MPs would have it in mind, given that there would be no real job cuts, and we, as a responsible municipality, are prepared to reduce that number of workers in some subsequent period, perhaps even to three proms, which means that we support the law, but we ask that the exact calculation and that we have the same status as other municipalities, because I see that here we have municipalities that have 11 per capita employees per capita. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30879	One minute and 45 seconds from the time of the authorised representative. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30880	The esteemed chairman, respected minister, members of the ministry, associates, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, our SPS-JS parliamentary group supports Mr Marinkovic's amendment, which tries to specify the category of permanent population taken as a parameter for calculating the maximum number of employees in local self-governments, i.e. how many thousands of residents, in fact, exist on the basis of a census in one local self-government and how many employees are obtained by multiplying by four. However, we do not consider that this article in paragraph 1 prejudges the way in which the number of residents, which is in the category of fixed numbers and which is the parameter for calculating the number of employees, is the definition that the total number of persons employed indefinitely in the local administration cannot be greater than four employees per thousand, according to the last census. Please make time go to the Parliament Group. Here is the problem and the question arises – what do they mean and the products of the words "on the last census"? According to international recommendations since 2002, only those who have residence and stay in the census are included in the permanent population; people who are on the so-called “residency” shall not be taken into account. temporary work abroad. Such people in some local self-government are indeed many, especially in the parts of eastern Serbia. For example, in Negotin there are over 15,000 people on permanent work or abroad, in the municipality of Petrovac na Mlava, about 12,000, in the municipality of Svilajnac, about 7,000, in Pozarevec, there are thousands of them from the municipality of Bor, Kladovo, Zaječar, etc. So this is especially present in eastern Serbia, although there are these phenomena in other parts of Serbia. Based on this international recommendation, we have had such application and certain sublegal acts, regulations, instructions, etc., so, let's say, the amount of transfers we had in this population, although this international recommendation has no power of law and obligation. It is not imperative and does not have to be applied, and especially should not be applied if it contributes negatively to what we call equal regional development, or to creating assumptions for the rapid development of undeveloped areas. Therefore, the application of this is not in line with what is the Law on Regionalisation and Equal Development of the region in Serbia, and this issue should certainly be addressed. Here we don't count on these people, although they actually exist, and in fact, from a certain aspect of the state, for local self-government, for other organs, as if they didn't exist. The same counts where there are 15,000 or 10,000, and in a municipality where there really aren't any. We have seen here that an amendment that applies to displaced persons has arrived and we support such an amendment that respects that number of people and will result in an increase in the number of workers, or officials in the administration. But when it comes to these people who are resident in these local self-governments, who don't count and admit, they practically have a worse position than displaced or evasive faces. These citizens really exist and should be treated differently, for their own reasons, and for these local self-governments where they live, and for that there are several reasons. I'll list a few of them. They're treated like diaspora. Although, by definition, they belong to this group, and we can view that diaspora in a shade, in terms of -- people who are citizens of Serbia, or people who are no longer Serbian citizens, but who were once also having a relationship, out of pride, with our country. But this is about people who have property, who have children, who have parents, who keep coming into the country and who realize all rights and obligations towards the state, to the same extent as citizens who count in that so-called. It's a constant population rate. So, firstly, they have a residence in certain local self-governments, in certain places. They're on the ballot list. Although the new law on a single polling list will give them the right to vote towards the place of residence abroad, from what has so far been the response of citizens living abroad, the fact is that they will most certainly try to achieve their right in their local self-government, in their place of residence. It is, as Mr Marinkovic said, that in these municipalities there are more voters on the electoral lists than already recognised citizens, according to which the parameters for many responsibilities of local self-government, in this case, and for the number in local self-government, but also for the level of transfers, which may be even more important than this first question that we are talking about today. These people are in charge of litigation in our municipalities, in municipal administrations, and tomorrow, in the units of these basic courts that survive, they don't take them there. Their children, aged eight years of education, are on the burden of municipal budgets, such as transport, such as free textbooks, etc. Taxes local services service these citizens through the collection of municipal taxes, and there is a fee for using construction land, which is charged equally to citizens who live here and those who are temporarily staying and working abroad. Taxes on the property of natural and legal persons, too, are charged by them, too. When it comes to the legal-Imvine service, there are plenty of jobs that the municipal administration does towards citizens. Among other things, it issues urban conditions and building permits, and in fact these citizens are building the most and investing money in various facilities within their households. Look across eastern Serbia, where there are people who live and work abroad, as these end up being different by personal standard and property from other parts of Serbia, where there are no such investments. Therefore, inspection services also have much more jobs in these municipalities, because of these citizens, than in other municipalities, where such citizens do not exist. We also have the other needs of these unrecognized citizens, conditionally stated, which are the release of various copies and various beliefs and documents, such as the birth certificate of the dead, copies of the married, beliefs of citizenship, over all documents, etc. On top of that, it should be noted that this number of citizens, who are not to be neglected, has a huge contribution to what is the source of our country's foreign reserves, have significant obligations to the state and take part in fulfilling their obligations. Thus, when they are the source of these foreign reserves, and they also meet all the tax and other obligations towards the state, according to other authorities, according to associations, according to local self-government, they should also be a parameter for determining the level of transfer, but also for what the number of judges in local self-government, the survival of health institutions, such as hospitals according to the number of residents, which is the number of doctors, etc. This isn't just about the concrete law, i.e. Yes, because it is certain that the angle from which we bring this issue is also worth a different calculation of the permanent population, which would give an increased number of employees in local self-government, but it is also important for other parameters and other competences belonging to local communities in Serbia. Madam Minister, I am extremely pleased that you are an authorised representative today to discuss this law. I think you're a real talker and you're absolutely able to hear this, if you don't personally decide, that you're going to pass on the thoughts of our local self-government and people who run local self-government on this significant issue of equal regional development. I would ask you to make an effort not to make a conference with the representatives of this Parliament, regardless of the membership of parliamentary clubs and parties, and with some of the representatives of the local self-government, a conference, a summit, etc., to come up with talks with you personally on the application of this, but also other regulations dealing with this problem, as well as with Minister Dinkic and Minister Dragutinovic, this refers to regulations that do not bring about this assembly, which have a significant impact on the lives of these local communities, which cannot survive, because they are shortening the possibilities for any survival when their potentials are based on which they survive, and these are certain potentials, are constantly reducing. On the other hand, by applying such regulations and such calculation of the population, etc., we have an increase. For example, students who go to bigger places will count in these larger places, etc., means increasing the potential of already developed environments. I understand that our government, which we support, is not at all controversial, we will vote for this law, respects all efforts to find one policy that in all segments will seek to make impulses to develop the environments that are missing in the material base and in other resources. In that hope, once again I ask you to make a contribution to this. We will vote for this law. We support this amendment, but we don't think it's crucial, that it leaves the possibility of applying to the number of inhabitants anyway. This is not legally defined, but it is very important that these aspects are reflected in another way and that we give the possibility to strengthen some segments in local self-governments that are less developed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30881	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted jointly by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Esad Djudjevic, Bajram Omeragic and Riza Halimi. The Government, the Board of Justice and the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment. The Legislative Committee has not declared itself, and the National Assembly will declare itself in the day of the vote. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to Article 2, was also submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30882	Article 2 of this law is very complex. Article 1 refers to the maximum number of employees per 1,000 inhabitants, paragraph 2 makes some exceptions. We have submitted an amendment to paragraph 2 of this article and I will comment on that. Article 3 shall lay down deadlines until local self-governments which have a higher number of employees than provided for in point 1 are obliged to adopt a systemisation act. In the fourth position of this Member, sanctions shall be imposed, which shall be examined through a reduced transfer of funds to local self-governments that violate the position of the 1st member. What is the exception to Article 2, where we have submitted an amendment to delete? Local Self-Government Unit decides independently. This is a hoax. We know two curves - left and right, and this law has countless, shiny, from exceptions by structure to some local self-government, but they are small, they will show in practice. "It decides on its own whether it will reduce the local administration to the maximum number of employees or whether the surplus staff will finance through the maximum number of employees from their own sources. “ You needed this attitude. One of the colleagues, who supports this government, has just said – this law has no obligation. There is a way, so you are in a position to explain why this amendment of the SRS is not accepted: "On this basis, local self-government must be granted the right to, through the maximum number of employees within the meaning of the bill, have other employees." What's a naked right unless it's created an ambience, if local self-government doesn't have the conditions to pay off employees by their own means through this number of projected ones? What right means to Kursumlia, Ljubovija, Mali Zvornik, Major, Krukupnje and other municipalities, which cannot pay out of their own resources and transfer funds even the number of workers provided for by the position of the first member, let alone the rest? Most often said – if you can't help us, at least treat us the same way. That's what they tell you from small communities, which certainly can't pay off more employees from their own resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30883	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30884	The President-in-Office, honourable representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the LDP cannot support a bill that goes towards reducing the number of local administrations, and that the government has not done its utmost to make a strategy to implement this law. It is not enough, simply, to cut, but to first create conditions that will indicate exactly how that cut will be executed. This amendment by the Justice and Administration Committee indicates that the whole law is not well thought out and that not all factors that determine how the local administration will be reduced have not been taken into account. We agree that we are often not satisfied with the way local self-government works and its administration. We agree that often this administration is neither professional enough nor up-to-date, nor efficient enough. These are some things that we can agree on and what we can talk about and try to find some solutions that will satisfy everything, and, above all, basic criteria – what this country needs, what authorities need at local level to work effectively, and with as little cost as possible for citizens who pay taxes. However, I would remind you that these citizens who are employed in the local administration are not the ones who are to blame for the fact that in recent times the administration has grown so much at the local level, and, of course, it has grown on the republican level. That's the lack of strategy. The strategy should be built in a few years ahead, not a few years back, or for a shorter period of time ahead. This law is expected only in 2011. If only in 2011, we can expect an efficient, rational and thriftful administration, it is a long period of time, with such legal solutions as are in the bill. These legal solutions do not provide answers to crucial and serious issues, which depend on the functioning of local self-government. Without decentralisation, which we need and what is and what is envisaged, on that path to European integration, we cannot achieve efficiency in the functioning of local self-government. This decentralisation also foresees a certain expertise in functioning. How are we going to achieve this expertise, if we are already drastically reducing, 15% is not a slight reduction in the administration, when total confusion and paralysis of the functioning of local authorities can be expected? We expect to implement reforms by acting like elephants in a glass shop. Wherever an elephant moves, he breaks something. It can also be expected that this law, as well as the law on reducing the number of republican administrations, will break things. I don't know how it's going to achieve that basic goal, which is efficiency and rationality. Local self-government is projected to introduce a single counter system. It is projected to create some electronic communication between state institutions. Unnecessary reports are scheduled to be thrown out, making it difficult for the local administration to work. Tax services are supposed to be modernized. The inspection services are supposed to be modernizing. This is predicted only orally, verbally, at some press conferences, and in this legislative proposal, where a reduction in the number of local administrations is foreseen, there is no saying that we are really going to make this administration more efficient than it is. What I just told you is one way to improve efficiency. Because anyone who hasn't met with a local officer at a counter, who's going to list about a dozen papers that have to be brought in to regulate some of the basic things in the domain of taxes, building permits or the like. But without creating one national strategy in terms of regulations that exist and are not already being used, or simply, unusable, we won't be able to implement all of this, not one charter system, not one electronic communication, etc. For example, local self-government is, I'm talking specifically about Zrenjanin, and how paralyzed by the fact that you still don't know how to apply the provisions of that famous Law on Planning and Construction. They don't operate services that should be involved in the issue of building permits and anything else that's relevant to this sphere of activity. It's one way that only shows how this local administration doesn't work unless there's one vision of how we're going to reform the local administration, to improve it. So it's not enough just to cut, it's necessary to first create conditions to remember that results you're looking for. Let's just say, I don't know if the MPs are familiar with this, citizens, most likely, are not, still in force, the 1947 State Holidays Regulation of the FNRJ. The Federal Public Institute Regulation for the Determination of Maritime Waterways from 1978 is still in force. These are regulations that are no longer applicable, and they cannot even be applied. In addition to not being applied, they are inapplicable, and those inapplicable, which even this congregation has brought, there are more, and how many regulations that former congregational councils have called out and brought, and they are not realistic and not lifelike. Therefore, I expect that this legislative proposal, like many before it, will at one point cease to apply, because it will not be possible to apply, because it will bring confusion and confusion, because so much will be complicated by its application, especially as we are still and how a politicised state, which, in addition to expertise, gives a lot of political belonging to employment in local self-government or republican administration. It is a public secret that party membership is one of the basic employment criteria. By reading the provisions of this law, perhaps at first glance, and we can find a particular racio with regard to the reduction of numbers, but not enough, underlining, reducing the number and after some time, back-to-back, that number is increased, when we have removed many good and professional employees, with years of experience. In that case, it can only do even more damage than what these officers are doing, I'm talking about those 15%, which are excess and who get paid, according to the government, unfounded, for no reason, because if something unnecessary is 15%, then normally it's unnecessary and harmful. I agree that we reduce costs whenever we have to and act modestly and in accordance with the means that this country can create, but let us not forget that both in local self-government and in municipalities and cities, in populated places, people work, earn and expect that for their money to be better certain concrete results, a fast, quality service, therefore, a service that is civilized. If we just reduce the number of officials, and leave all the bad things that were characteristic of the work of administration and bureaucracy in the previous period, we have done nothing. It is really unnecessary to pass these laws that will create only a lot of misery and suffering and these people who will remain unscheduled and also citizens who should use their services.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30885	From the time of the mandated representative of the Parliamentary Group, there are three minutes and 40 seconds left. It's been 11 minutes and 20 seconds. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30886	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS has filed a series of amendments, trying to at least ease this law a little bit, which is very unfavourable, above all, for the municipalities of the interior. In particular, in this Article 2, we fell into the eye of the fact that we have double criteria when it comes to the republican administration and local administration, in this sense that there are sanctions for local administration, sanctions that mean the reduction of the transfer funds to these municipalities, and that we do not have such sanctions in relation to the republican administration, which is extremely inappropriate. In addition, in some ways, it is opposed to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, because local self-government has one level of independence in policy making at local level, and it is opposed to the desire for greater independence of municipalities and taking responsibility when it comes to the work and life of its citizens. So we find this attitude unacceptable, that it is necessary to delete, and, in general, as far as the whole of the law is concerned, I would say a few words. I think that it significantly increases regional differences, which are even now extremely large, increases them in this sense that so far the burden of transition has not been evenly distributed between different regions, above all, administrative centres and republics and provinces, that we have decent development both in Belgrade and in Novi Sad, and, on the other hand, we have a serious stagnation when it comes to municipalities from the interior. You can see that on each of the parameters, if you want through the number of unemployment, where there are great differences between Belgrade and Novi Sad, on the one hand, and a couple of municipalities that are on the road, where the economic potential of the entire Republic and other municipalities from within is clearly concentrated. Through the level of reception, you also have a big difference between local municipalities and central administrative centres. If, through a gross domestic product, which was monitored by 2005, and after 2005, obviously, by political decision, you will cease to follow the gross domestic product. So, the Republic Statistics Institute has given up on it not to notice how much the difference between the development of these municipalities, i.e. the cities of Belgrade and Novi Sad, and the municipalities within. If you look at, in the last few months, the decline in traffic, which is significantly higher in municipalities within the interior, and the decline in retail traffic in Belgrade and Novi Sad, you will notice that these regional differences are only deepening. This law will contribute to further deepening these regional differences and what you have said, that is, the parallel that you pulled between the state administration and the local administration, because we have a local administration in all municipalities, including in municipalities in Belgrade, and we only have a republican administration in Belgrade, or a province in Novi Sad. Of the 105 agencies, as many as there are, you didn't find it appropriate for at least one to be found, if not in my Jagodina, in my Pomoravlje, then in Kragujevac, in Nis. It's not like Nis and Kragujevac are capable of having a university, having colleges without being able to run a couple of agencies. A large number of administration employees over the past ten years have determined the level of demand and precisely because of this demand, because of this purchasing power that the centers of Belgrade, Novi Sad and these few municipalities have today on the road, we have the fact that these centres and today are attracting a bunch of foreign capital, and that little foreign foreign direct investment capital, and total investments in Serbia, which are so small. So these centers concentrate an even higher level of some economic power, some economic potential to suck out these municipalities that are from the inside. When it comes to surplus employees in all local self-governments, we are aware that there are a large number of employees, that at least half of the employees are surplus, but the fact is that the failure of transition, the failure of economic reforms and the lack of the economic sector is the basic reason why people today decide to hire themselves in local self-governments, even though they are salaries, I would say, not so large, but it is the only alternative, it is the valve that they have, which citizens from the interior have, because this government, the republican government, did not allow the private sector to develop and to create any alternative for a better life. If you look at the economic growth we had in the previous period, it was based, first of all, on the service sector. Start with the service sector, what was there, first of all, the banking sector? All of the banks' headquarters are located in Belgrade and Novi Sad. If you are looking at the import lobby, look at how many importers you have in Belgrade and Novi Sad, because there was also a number of jobs generated, the largest number of jobs, again, in these centres. Wholesales, transportation, all that is related to trade, including retail, and these large shopping centres that appear all over Serbia, are, in some ways, the economic potential that has insides sucked towards Belgrade and Novi Sad, so today we have really come into a situation that citizens outside Belgrade and Novi Sad live very badly. True, the New Sad administration always has an excuse – it is Belgrade's fault, and Belgrade has no excuse, but that is no problem, there is no difference between local self-government outside administrative centres, neither in Vojvodina nor in Serbia. So poverty, uncertainty, imperceptibility are the same in all these municipalities and significantly greater than it is in Belgrade's municipalities. Therefore, the law that will further increase this unbalanced development, which leaves greater space for administrative centres, narrows purchasing power, demand and perspective to local self-government, is extremely immoral, unfair. I would mention these small municipalities in my district, first of all, the Rekovac municipality, where, through the privatisation process, you destroyed everything that existed. There, literally, you don't have any business collectives, let's say, that works today, where there are some employees. People live on agriculture, and what is the state of agriculture in this year, you can also see at the prices they have for their agricultural products, at the scale of the processing of these agricultural products. So, specifically, in that municipality, everything from Levè, from Bogatine, from the agricultural cooperative, from the plants that the "Svetozarevo" cable factory had, today, Jagodina, everything is literally closed. What was privatized didn't work. These people had no alternative, except that they were eventually employed by a municipal company, a municipality and a health center. Such municipalities find it most difficult to fall in such laws and, in essence, the concern that the republican government has, a declarative commitment to even development, and it all comes down to how through regional development, through some regional integration, that as much capital as possible come into Serbia, that this capital, firstly, be kept in Belgrade, so that Belgrade can distribute and grant us charity, us, the poor from the inside. Unfortunately, this story of regional development, through this law, will, as I said earlier, further deepen itself. There are few of us, unfortunately, but MPs from the interior should, when it comes to this law, be much more unique, whether the government or the opposition, whether there are blank resignations or no blank resignations, have agreed to our central political parties or not. We must fight for Serbia's even development. That's not what's going on today. As MPs, we do not have the courage to raise our voice, to fight for our municipalities and our environments. We give in to lethargy, and it is an opportunity to hear through this law the voice of our fellow MPs from within. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30887	The used time of the MP's group is 7 minutes and 30 seconds. The word is made by Minister Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30888	Ladies and gentlemen, if I'm an association to regional development, I am deeply grateful for that. If regional development is currently a key topic in Serbia, I am also deeply grateful for that because we have recognised the topic we need to talk about and on which Serbia must work very hard in the coming period. If you remember, and I will remind you, when I defended the Regional Development Act in this House, you expressed concern that the Regional Development Act would turn into new employment at the National Agency, at the regional agency, in the district associations. Then I told you that your fear was unfounded, that there would be no employment and that we would reduce the number of employees at all levels. Today we show not that there will be no employment that you have talked about, but there will be redeploying, even some people, unfortunately, will have to go from the public sector to private, and part of the funds that will be saved will create a more favourable economic environment, and the economy of the volume of which they will think of future district associations and regional agencies will give effects in the direction of employment in some other sectors, not just in the public sector. I'm very glad that you're back in some way today on the Regional Development Act, that you mentioned it, that you've scattered your own desire that the Regional Development Act will turn into new employment. We see it today. It won't. Also, I thank Mr. Mihajlovic, who invited me to speak personally to municipalities in Serbia. It's no secret that I'm in municipalities in Serbia every day. It is no secret that municipalities in Serbia are deeply aware of the burden they are called – a accumulated administration, especially those in which the change of government occurs more often. I meet these people every day. Someone mentioned that we were talking about a one-stop shop system in the municipalities, talking about service centers. I can inform you that in almost all municipalities in Serbia, even in the most underdeveloped, one-stop-shop systems are reality, and that we have an increase in the number of employees, although logic requires otherwise. I'd like you to see how your one-shot, or service centers, not to say one-stop-shop systems, look in the community, say, Vladic Han, or Babushnica, which are undeveloped. I would invite you to see what it looks like in the municipalities of southern Serbia, which through the donations of the Republic have arranged their service centers. Then we would have concluded ourselves -- is it possible that we need all those people who worked here 15 years ago, when we had to wait in front of these offices in the long lines, and in front of the other, in front of the third, when we have now invested enough resources and knowledge to create service centres in municipalities in Serbia? This is where we come to the question – do we have a burden in the same way in all municipalities in Serbia, in the interior or in some others? Do we have the same way of thinking? My answer is no. That's why I'm very happy. If we look at the number of employees in individual municipalities in Serbia, we come up with very different data – from not full three, compared to thousands of people, to 17 per thousand people. Then we ask the question – is that exactly what we should do and how we accumulated that number of employees? We come to the fact that in the day when the assembly majority is changed in one big city, the president of the municipality has signed 40 solutions for a working relationship for some others. We also come to the fact that we have a fund for the development of a city in the south of Serbia greater than the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, by 25%, that it has 83 employees, and that the city is not so big that it would have to suffer so much burden. These are the reasons why the government of the Republic of Serbia has given one law establishing the number of employees in local self-government, but, respecting local self-government, this law is not as sharp as the law on the republican level. The question is, what are you punishing the Republic for? We have no transfers in the Republic, but that's why we have a million fine for that politician representing the ministry. It'll be applied if it's not different. Let's look at how the local self-government budgets are formed. It is easy to speak to Mr. Djuric of Chatitina, whose budget is well over one billion, although it has 15 000 and 600,700 inhabitants. It is easy, because the transfer is not decisive in the budget and, using Article 2, you do not have to respect the number of employees, because I respect that you have a problem when you fly down to Zlatibor 40,000 people and when it is necessary to give them additional service activities. But your budget and your cash registers allow you to pay for it from your own budget and you don't have to worry about the maximum number the Republic gave you. The comparisons work, the municipality of Vrnjačka Banja, which has 26,490 inhabitants, which you also mentioned, which has 10,000 more inhabitants, which also has the number of overnight stays about the same as Zlatibor, are only, for its benefit, the number of employees in the municipal administration is smaller than in the Čajetina municipality, does not complain, even think they must reduce it in order to have additional transfers. If we carefully read Article 2, we see what the real definition of the municipality is. Is the definition of the municipality that only employment has through increasing the number of workers, or is it the definition of the municipality to use rationally and efficiently its number of employees in the direction of providing services to citizens, but not on their burden, because it is mainly about municipalities that do not have large budgets, but on the contrary, as a stone in shoes, burdening the municipality with additional transfers. I call on municipalities in Serbia to talk about it, as we talk about every day, to look for exits and to influence through some other directions the employment of people in municipal administrations, but we are not going to spill care for workers who are employed in municipal administrations, building up those who sit in municipal offices, I would not say – to the great joy of those who provide services.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30889	The word has the People's MP Arsen Đuric, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30890	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, I am proud that the Catetina Municipality has a budget of one billion and two hundred million, because such a budget was not in 2004. Until the DSS came to power in Chatetina, it had a budget of 200 million, but we created a good environment and conditions for attracting investment. We've repaired that budget and the uncompromising struggle with investors, and the legal and illegal ones, by increasing the cost of municipal equipment. So Zlatibor existed before we came to power, so the budget wasn't filled with that level and that dynamic. You said Vrnjaka Banja has fewer employees. I'm not sure there are fewer, but there are probably several public enterprises that perform certain activities in the municipality of Vrenjačka Banja, while, for example, the Čajetina municipality has no directorate for planning and construction, but those twenty people who worked in the former planning and construction directorate are now workers of the municipal administration, because they are operating under the Investment Fund for Building Land, so they are now falling under these four employees per thousand inhabitants. If we had a directorate, they wouldn't fall under that rationalization, because public enterprises aren't the subject of this law. I wasn't being mean. I said the DSS supports rationalization that it is necessary to execute it, to make an effective local administration, which will be cheap, efficient and in the service of citizens, but I think that from the municipality to the municipality, it should determine that number, because it can't, you'll agree with me, you'll be four employees per thousand residents in all municipalities. There's a need for it to be five or three. I was talking about that population criterion. What you're saying is that local self-government can fund employees out of their budgets, we finance them and now from our own budget, but we'll be punished for having some activities that other municipalities don't have, we'll be punished by reducing the transfer funds that we've already reduced this year. It is true that they represent a small part of the budget's income in the municipality of Chatin, however, we will be further punished for having to serve some citizens who are not residents of the Tchaitin municipality. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30891	On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30892	I asked for article 3 to be deleted. Article 3 speaks of the total number of employees at a certain time, due to an increase in the volume of work, which cannot be more than 10% of the number of employees at a certain time in local self-government. The local self-government can always point out that it has an increased volume of work, it can always point out that it needs a certain number of workers at a certain time, that it needs some number of workers to engage through a youth cooperative, through a student cooperative, through a contract on temporary, occasional operations, etc. However, this is about how local self-government behaves, whether it behaves domestically or not. I cannot help but mention the local self-government I come from, the town of Cačak, in which the SRS is in power, along with coalition partners from New Serbia, the DSS, the SPS, who are indeed acting domestically. We have 60 workers indefinitely, which we could hire. We have 50% of the workers at a certain time, which we were able to employ until the entry into force of this law. We didn't do it because we're being domestical and we're trying to hire these workers elsewhere, not in the local administration. If we're already hiring them in some places that are financed from the budget, we're trying to hire them in those public companies that are self-financed, companies that work in income, that work on a commercial basis. It's a real household business, and I think that's how every local self-government should work. Secondly, prescribing these 10% is only an opportunity for manipulation, for entanglement of their own staff, for entanglement of party personnel, and that is why we asked for this member to be deleted. I think the government should accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30893	On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapcevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Mikhailo Puric. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Djuric, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Lapčević submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30894	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would ask you to include time for the fifth amendment, so a total of four minutes I would speak, since the amendments are compatible. Okay? So I'm gonna have to take this. All right. We started talking about one thing called the law on determining the maximum number of employees in the local administration. At first, I must say, without causing a replica, that I do not agree with my colleague, Miletic Mihajlovic, who said that you are competent here to come. I don't think you did, but this is where Mr. Markovic, Dinkic, was supposed to be answering our questions, not you, because it's... Verica Kalanovic, from the scene: No matter what I know about Leskovec? Bravo. I think they should have come and they should have answered certain questions. We also said, in a debate in principle, that this law is not good, that it should be withdrawn, and we offered you a good solution through the form of amendments that you should have accepted. You didn't accept. My colleagues tried to convince you that these amendments were too much and basic and that they should be accepted, that this is one form of law that will be much more humane than the one you propose. However, I come from Leskovec, I was the district chief, and I know everything, like you, about the Jablani County. I'm afraid I'm gonna miss the time, but I'll get back to you later. I come from districts and municipalities that have less than 15,000, as well as municipalities that are larger than 15,000 inhabitants. Given that these municipalities have reduced funds, Leskovci has reduced 120 million, I ask you – when will Leskovac receive the 120 million that the Republic government has reduced by transfer? Do you know? You don't know, nobody knows. The second thing, privatisation, I'll use the time of the Parliament's group, in Jablani County, is disastrous. From 129 companies, only three to four are correctly privatized and these three to four work correctly. You know what these are -- "Healths", "Leskovac" milkmaker, some companies that work. However, what is characteristic of this law is that it is subject to the release of political opponents, as it did in Leskovac. It is true that before the formation of the new government over 45 was divided, as you said, the solutions to the permanent working relationship, but you did not say another fact – that you and your coalition partners hired another 52. You didn't say that, you dropped it, and I'm responsible for that. Mayor Kocic, with whom you have good communication, hired even his brother-in-law and, imagine, paid him 1,000 euros. "Democratic Schurak" got a salary of 1,000 euros. Your theatre director, Mr. Rakic, fired 14 workers, of which seven from the DSS, none from G17 plus. Do you know why? Because you're experts, because the theater couldn't work without a G17 plus worker, and we hired that same director a woman two years ago, even though we didn't force him to be a member of the DSS, and he joined you a year ago, a month before a new government was formed. So one loyal member, a true member of G17 plus. He joined in a month before you came to power in Leskovac. Well done. That's a nice thing to say. I'll continue later, about the second amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30895	A minute and 50 seconds have been spent since the Parliament Group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Lapčević. The People's MP Alexander Pejcic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30896	Thank you, Madam Chairman. It would be my pleasure to relocate with the minister, if she wants to. I'm ready for something like that, since I've prepared myself for this set of laws. In fact, I have to tell you honestly that we at the DSS are not against rationalization. This rationalisation needs to be transparent, public, and not to set the criteria on a flat-rate basis. Imagine, the mayor of Leskovec said he was extremely sorry that only 347 workers would leave the local self-government, be careful, just 347. It's 347 families, times four, over 1,200 working mouths are out of work. I noted that the extremely bad privatisation was done in Leskovec. Everyone employed in the local self-government, starting with the DSS, I don't take up myself, and through other parties – G17 plus, DS, SRS and all other parties. People only found the arrest in that local administration. It's normal for rationalization to be done. We have proposed, since Leskovac is a large municipality, the fifth municipality in Serbia, with more than 160,000 inhabitants, that it be on the principle of new municipalities, that local self-government is relaxed by opening up some new municipalities, and that the pre-named labour force will go to these new local self-governments, such as Vucje, Grdelica, Brestovac, Pečevac, not yet, there is a need for a number of local self-governments. So that was our idea. What I want to ask you as a question is extremely important, since we've passed the Law on the Communist Police these days. Since Leskovac is a city of over 50,000 inhabitants, he will need to create new jobs. We, on the one hand, are firing the administration, and on the other hand, we will employ a certain number of residents. Also, we've passed the Housing Agency Act, which will also have to gain new labour. How is that gonna happen? I also asked in the local parliament – will the priority be people who lose their jobs? No, I don't. Priority will only be given to party people, under the pretenses, that's what's said. So, all those who are part of the ruling coalition will be able to employ in these newly formed institutions, agencies, and others will not be able to. So, what I've confirmed. This law is an extremely good soil, a suitable ground for conflict and the removal of political insatiables. What will be and how bad for the people of Leskovci is that this law is already being applied. Mayor Leskovci, without any instructions from the Assembly, without any government regulations, is already applying this law. Will you, as Government, react to his insolence, his exasperation, since, I say, without any decisions, without any law, he has already fired the workers of Leskovec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30897	Since the Parliament's time, a minute has been used. On Article 6, the amendments were submitted jointly by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Lapcevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Djuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Miroslav Petkovic. The word has been made by MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30898	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 8, which we have proposed to change attitude 1 and read as follows: "The government is responsible for the implementation of this law, which is being notified within 30 days by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia" and that the positions 2, 3 and 4 are deleted. Items 2, 3 and 4 of this article define what happens if local units of local self-government do not respect this maximum number, i.e. they do not release a sufficient number of workers to a maximum number. It is proposed that units of local self-government reduce the transfer funds to every 0.1, over the maximum number of employees – 1% of the planned transfer funds. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 188(4), guaranteed the right of local self-government to finance from the republican budget, in accordance with the law, and thus passed the Law on the financing of local self-government. This provision means that the provision of this article prevents the financing of units of local self-government in accordance with the Constitution and the law mentioned above. On the other hand, this year, the Government of the Republic of Serbia reduced significant funds to local self-government, in total mass by about 40%, and some municipalities and more than that, so the threat of new transfer funds would lead some municipalities to the edge of the existence, i.e. to prevent them from fully functioning. I'm not talking about my municipality, which, thank God, has a good budget, but about some other municipalities whose functioning is really threatened, not to talk about some infrastructure and development projects that have been stopped in these municipalities so far by reducing the transfer funds. By further reductions in the transfer funds, I think they would be impossible to function fully. So I suggest you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30899	On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30900	Article 8, the position of which we have predicted eradicating, provides for the punishment of local self-government, which does not reduce the number of employees, as provided for by this law. Not answering for the replica earlier, I must, Mrs Kalanovic, say that the "strict measures" for the republican administration are simply not true. In Article 13 of the Law on the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration, not overrun the number of employees has been sanctioned, not overrun the funds for that number, but the lack of systematicisation. It's really funny to talk about this being a punishment, which is, in fact, a criminal punishment for not passing one act, about systematicization. That's what article 13 says. Whoever here is not telling the truth, let all citizens know. But why wouldn't the minister bring in a systematization act? This law does not oblige him to respect the systematization, but to bring in one piece of paper. Why do I claim this is true? Because the government has this kind of approach. Each of us knows in life people who are condescending to the more powerful than ourselves, and according to the lower ones, to the weaker ones, very arrogant, very rude, as this government has done with this law. Not taking advantage of reserves in tax policy, especially in the financial sphere, the government of the Republic of Serbia does not stimulate production, but by exempting tax liabilities it finances and encourages investment in the financial sphere. It's a powerful lobby. That can't be touched. What else does the government do? It doesn't control money flows, neither budget, nor public funds, it doesn't touch agencies, it doesn't even have an effective application of the Budgetary System Act, to see how huge money is poured out, spent, completely illegal, such as some, not all, but some president of municipalities, which enables local criminals to get overtime, construction, investment and luxuries, and then they get crumbs, because it allows them economic power, and then, you and those manage people's policies at the place. It's a cowardly policy and it's the easiest to hit the hardest where I can't hit you back. It's a hit on local self-government. What's that? You write in an explanation of the refusal of amendments that you have to cut down their number of employees like this, because you don't restrict them, you say, the right to self-educated bodies, organisations and services for their needs, to establish their organisation and work, as if the organisation, service, etc., could exist without people. You say we don't touch their rights. Yes, so the minister of justice says - no, they have the right to be proposed and those who do not complete training at the Judicial Academy, but cannot be elected because they have an irreparable advantage. So don't make us crazy. The right of choice and the right to propose is decided differently by law, as well as by this, to have the right to educate the organs. Do they have the right to accept how many people they need to enable these organs to function? Also, in your explanation, you say the following sentence – in the exercise of these rights you should take care of the provision of resources for the work of these bodies, organisations and services, and that the burden of their funding is not transferred to other levels. How did you, my lords of government, determine how much anyone contributes to the budget and who spends? I wonder if you've found, for example, a man who lives in Novi Sad, who works, receives salary and spends money in Belgrade, which part of the VAT goes to the province of Vojvodina and which part stays in Belgrade? For example, the corporate tax that has its own organisational part in Belgrade and Novi Sad, or in the South, when it pays the profit tax, which part, how much did it contribute and pay in each of these three organisational continents? Tell me, please, how do you share it, for example, in from customs, from customs revenues, to the part that is for Leskovac, Kursumli, Belgrade, Saint or Novi Sad? Not that you won't, but there's no mechanism, no taxes, no software that can separate this. Two basic criteria – the benefits of tax and tax justice, you want to question here, saying that you, God, finance these local self-governments. My dear gentlemen, the one who has more needs to pay more taxes, because the one who has more is using the good roads that the state has made, the one who has more, the more contracts and the more valuable jobs the state protects, and the one who has less, the less should pay. These are basic tax principles, and this member of the law endangers Article 9(7) of the European Charter, under which the funds transferred as transfer funds cannot be defined by you, as someone who transfers them, do not earn themselves; you cannot define how much anyone contributed. This is a country with a single border, where you cannot determine exactly what solidarity is and what is a tax liability.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30901	People's MPs, the time available to the MP's group has been used. Thank you. On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 8, the amendment was submitted by the Board of Justice in the administration. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Djuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30902	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, we have tabled an amendment suggesting that article 9 be deleted. This amendment is a property of previously submitted amendments, because if the previous amendments were accepted, this member of the law would be premature, or there would be no need to be there, since it defines the rights and obligations of those who are left without a job, which kind of compensation would be obtained, and we have proposed that this be a law to regulate the procedure for determining the maximum number of employees. In the last position of that member, it is said that in the process of determining the status of unscheduled staff in the body of the unit of local self-government and in determining that the work of an employee ceases the need in the establishment, the company and other form of organisation, taking into account the results of work and property. No clear criteria have been defined on the basis of which the results of work and their property will be objectively determined, so there is a concern that these officials will be left at the mercy of that political structure, which in a particular municipality exercises power. I'd like to say one more thing, I really think our proposals are extremely correct and well-intentioned. I think we agree that there is a need for rationalization, but in the right way, and I think you should think about accepting some of our amendments, because the application of the law doesn't take long, it's delayed for two months, but it's done in a proper and valid way. What I'd still ask, and what's missing for local self-government to function properly, is a law on the property of local self-government. It is necessary to initiate the adoption of the law, in order for units of local self-government to obtain certain property, to obtain certain revenues from it and to become themselves bearers of their own development. Of course, those municipalities that are less developed, which have small budgets, or relatively small revenues in these budgets, will be touched by the state, which is completely normal, but I think it should leave the possibility for local self-government to be the bearers of their own development, by obtaining their property and greater jurisdiction. That's why I think this law is premature. The province administration in Vojvodina is not covered by rationalisation, because it is not known which powers will still be obtained by the law on the transfer of competence, so the exact number of employees cannot be determined. Also, we have a lot of undefined legislation when it comes to local self-government. There will probably be a law that will give municipalities new and new responsibilities and obligations, so it will produce the need for a number of employees, who are now working in the Republic administration, and this will later be transferred to some local level. So I think you should reconsider and accept these amendments, so that we can regulate this matter properly, and we don't delay the law for long, for about two months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30903	A minute and 15 seconds from the time of the Parliament's group has been used. On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30904	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the President-in-Office, I will be much more concerned with this law in the next amendment, but the amendment that I submitted to article 9 in front of the New Serbia parliamentary group reads that Article 9 paragraph 5, after the words "work results", added the word "family status". This refers to the famous criteria that are reportedly to be handled in the implementation of this law. This law is quite unusable, I was saying earlier, not to say that it is tragic in its inapplicability, and later I will prove to you in the examples of municipalities to be implemented at work, but here, in these criteria, which we consider to be very flexible and unsettled, the following is said in an explanation for the refusal of amendments – the amendment is not accepted because it is the same as proposed by the reasons for whether the employee, or his family, remains without income, and given that it is in the provision of Article 9(5). The draft law already provides that, inter alia, the property situation is to be taken into account as a criterion to be taken into account in the procedure of determining the status of unscheduled employee. When you put the "immature state" criterion, it can be all kinds of things and it can be declared a problem property situation, which is why someone has to or doesn't have to keep the job. At the same time, when this law is implemented, if it can be reached at all to the extent to which it is advocated, one who implements the law will clash with two more laws – the Law on Discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality. There will be a problem with how this law, in the name of the efficiency it advocates, really goes into action. That's what makes this law, amongst other failures, inapplicable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30905	On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Marinkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, amendment to Rule 9 has been tabled by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30906	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be very brief, given that this amendment is similar to the one we talked about today during the debate on the draft law on determining the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration. As part of the criteria we advocate when determining the number of unscheduled post-admissioned job systematisation, the law predicted that work and property results should be taken into account when determining this status. Given that this is another amendment that the union has made, and that we continue to insist on the ongoing social dialogue between the employer and the union, we felt that the amendment should be entered into the procedure, so that, until the final solution, we could find the best solution. Our criteria, which I was talking about today, put first the general usefulness of the workplace, whether it should exist at all, in the second place is the expertise, efficiency, the results of the work, and when both are fulfilled, we ask that special attention be paid to protecting specific categories of employees, certain categories in accordance with the Labour Act, such as: working women during pregnancy, on maternity leave or leave due to child care, single parents, parents with multiple children, persons with disabilities, and not to list any further. In this regard, we have also proposed an amendment which, in addition to results and property, adds the application of a special collective agreement applicable to state authorities, given that you mentioned earlier, the Committee on Labour and Social Policy adopted an amendment which, relying on the argument given by the Government, covers all of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30907	Two minutes. Thank you. On Article 10, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30908	Madam Vice-President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Article 10(1). The bill provides that if the number of unspecified employees in the local administration on the date of entry into force of this law is less than the maximum number of employees, the number cannot be increased until 31 December 2010. By allowing possible corrections, which I have proposed to amend by way of amendment, which is that Article 10, at the end of Article 1, puts a dot on and add words – except in cases which have been brought into force by laws establishing the new competences of local self-government units, and up to the maximum number of employees, is practically allowed, for cases which have been created without the influence of local self-government units, and due to the entry into force of the laws establishing the new competences of local self-government units, this allows for better performance of the tasks of local self-government units. By limiting this correction to "maximum number of employees", other reasons for the adoption of laws, such as the rationalisation of local administrations and the reduction of the number of public administration employees and the administration of local self-government units in its component are followed. The adoption of the amendments, with the correction, will bring about an equal relationship between the local self-government units that have so far significantly reduced the number of employees. I just have to say that by taking effect, for example, the Law on the Community Police, the obligation to educate the municipal police of the city has been introduced, and Article 2 of Article 2 of that law – that the city provides for the number of municipal police officers who are eligible. That's just one example of why this amendment, with correction, should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30909	On Article 10, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30910	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the NS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10(1), which should be amended and read: "If the number of unspecified staff in the local administration is less than the maximum number of employees, that number can be increased to the maximum number by 31 December 2010". In Article 10(3), paragraph 3 is deleted. A colleague, Mirko Munjic, mentioned Cačak, a municipality from which he comes, as a municipality in which for years the public's budget has been responsible for municipal authority and where the number of possible employees is far less than what is allowed by law so far, and yet the municipality is extremely efficient. That is also the case in the municipality of Topol, so we felt, by this amendment, that these municipalities, which so far have clearly not misused any of their right to exercise power, should be allowed the opportunity to increase their administration in the event of a real need, because I believe they will justify it. However, what we must accept in resolving the administration issue is that it is not a good starting point that the budget should be the biggest employer. The biggest employer must be the economy. At that time, the budgets of local administrations and the Republic budget will be rich and these measures will not have to be implemented, because these measures sometimes seem really like cartoons, given that we run a little before we should go to Europe, so we accepted that standard that 4,000 citizens are measures for a municipal official, and we know that there are services, I think Mr Shami spoke very clearly about this, which must also work in municipalities that have 6,000 inhabitants, 66,000 inhabitants and in cities that have 600,000 inhabitants. So there's something that's life and there's something that's administration. In practice, it is often not compatible, but if we stick to the letters on paper advocated by this law and trying to prescribe Europe in Serbia at the moment, that means, looking at the situation in Serbia from the north to the south, that the municipality of Nova Crnja, which has 12,705 inhabitants, can employ for all the needs of the municipality, from all its local communities, three officials, that the municipality of Novi Knezevic, which has almost 13,000 inhabitants, can employ three officials and 1/4, means three and a frtalj, as my Bacvani would say. The Municipality of Baki Petrovac is more fortunate, has almost 15,000 inhabitants, three and a half employees. Sremski Karlovci – only two and 1/4. Ljig municipality, four officers all over. Dovebac - two and a half on 9,913 inhabitants. Frogs - three and 1/4. Lapo — Two Servants. Ćićavac – two and a half, Shop – one and a half employees. These should be officials who need to deal with local policy, to carry out what the local government requires, to deal with finance, with municipal work, to serve all these jobs, to do general affairs, with social activities, to issue assurances, with permission to receive various representations of citizens, to always be effective, and in these municipalities, especially in southern Serbia, we know that there are local communities, local offices, where the ultimate technological range of lamps is. We can also see that on television, in recent displays of these local communities. So I really don't see the adequate education of these officials, the adequate personal abilities that they can meet the needs of this law and the needs of real administration in the field. Can they do some "supermen" or some "supermen" or some "betmen"? I may be able to, but there are no such ones in Serbia so far. I argue that this law will not be implemented under these European standards, as in municipalities, Mr Markovic is currently not there, and he is the most invited, carrying out significant recruitment of new personnel, no one is being fired. So it's unnecessary to caricate the whole story, to show before the IMF that we passed this law, as if they wouldn't see that in the real story, in life, there's nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30911	The total time of the NS Parliamentary Group and the time of representatives were used. On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30912	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Zlata Djeric is absolutely right, this law is passed, first of all, because of the IMF. It is enough to look at the reasoning of the law and you will see that there are no precise data on the causes that the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has been working on for a survey that allegedly covers 16 EU countries. So that's the first thing that comes to mind when you see the reasoning of the law. Secondly, as far as the concrete amendment is concerned, it is based on the following arguments. No one guarantees that the crisis will end by the end of 2010. Only the IMF has a forecast that GDP will rise next year. On the other hand, you have the Unicredit Bank, which claims that GDP will fall by 0.7% in 2010. So it is quite uncertain what will happen next year, and in this sense we believe it is premature to set such a deadline and therefore an amendment to the position of the 2nd member has been tabled.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30913	On Article 10, the amendment, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs Milorad Buha and a group of 20 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Milorad Buha, and the People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30914	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10(3), and I have requested that Article 3 be deleted. It is provided in paragraph 3 that, in the event that local self-government employs an increased number of those you put as a standard, there is an instrument within the framework of the transfer funds and that those transfer funds are suspended temporarily. What it means – to suspend temporarily, it is not explained, is it temporary for that year or is it permanent etc., but, in essence, the legal category stopping the transfer is anti-constitutional and illegal. No one has the right, under the provisions of the Constitution, under the provisions of the Law on the Budgetary System, the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on the Finance of Local Self-Government, to deny these assets to local self-government. This is a direct violation of human rights for citizens who regularly comply with the law of the intended obligation. These funds are allotted to the Republic budget, in the form of transfers they return to the local self-government and now by one law, such as this law, the funds that have been settled neatly, which have been properly paid and which should be returned to local self-government, this provision deprives citizens of that right. I'm saying we don't have that legal right, we don't have that constitutional right, it's a direct violation of constitutional and legal provisions, and I call on the Prime Minister present here to account, because this is a notorious violation of the law, and on the other hand, it's an inalienable right that every citizen, if he's committed, has the right to be made available by those means.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30915	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30916	Erasing the attitude of Article 10(3) is, in fact, proof of how much you created for yourself, as a God, a beard, or how much of those over whom you have direct authority of your mother, as a government, and the local self-government of your stepmom. In the law which you have set out the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration, it is an obligation to adopt a systematization act, and if it is not adopted by the end of the year, only a criminal penalty and an obligation is to publish a register of employees, an organisation whose register does not exist, but for this there is no criminal penalty and no amendment has been adopted that we have submitted that the non-publishing of the register of employees at the republican level of sanctionation. That's why for local self-government you have, in a law that doesn't look like the law, because everything leaves to be defined later, but precisely edits how to stop the transfer of funds to local self-governments if they exceed the number of employees. That proves who you're hard on and how hard you are on. It is illegal even to transfer the transfer, but to direct the purposes, because it endangers the discretionary right of local self-government to have, but the call of this, which you intended to do in July, was planted in the Law on the Budgetary System, when the Government was left with the right to establish priorities and redeploy funds towards local self-government, even, even one part of the funds. So neither this is a coincidence, nor this is a surface, this is a planned intention, and you, as a Government, will do anything to deny others rights, and constitutional, just so that no one touches you from where you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30917	Thank you. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, Amendment Article 11, was tabled by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30918	Ladies and gentlemen, I am staying with the amendments that I have submitted to Article 11(2) with the view that this law will not improve anything, nor can it be saved. Where it can be saved at a local level, it is, first, a reduction in the number of vehicles in local self-government. According to my estimates, there are about 5,000 of them, and they should be reduced to only three vehicles per municipality. Instead of a vehicle, which uses large quantities of gasoline and huge costs, especially when it comes to vehicles and their prices, I would suggest that local self-government buys new bicycles for its officials, because it would save a lot of money, then abolishing the tourist journeys of local powerful people, because local powers travel in the white world, for which local self-government has no need. I have an example that one of the directors of the municipal company traveled to Italy for a flower fair to see how the zumbules grow, and Serbia has its own zumbules. Then, unmount 90% of all the cooling devices from the local self-government rooms and installing them at hospitals and health centers where our patients are being treated. Eliminate their ability to close a contract for a certain time, end the engagement, first of all, counselors, lift the 90 percent team, as a temporary measure, for two years served. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, allow me to take the opportunity to congratulate, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party and on my behalf, all Orthodox believers who tomorrow, on Saturday, 21 November 2009, celebrate their Christian glory of St. Michael's Archangel, in order to celebrate it with their nearest, health and joy. As for the President, local self-government and employment, I would like to inform you that I have requested an emergency session of the Panchev City Assembly, i.e. I suggested that the president of the Panchev City Assembly schedule a session and put the first item of the agenda – the abolition of the decision on the taking out of the trash. It is that Panchevo alone in Serbia has two decisions to clean and carry out garbage, which is 50% more expensive in Serbia, if not 100%. In that direction, I suggested that the president of the Panchev City Assembly schedule a session. He said no. However, SRS committees, since we have a third of the council, have scheduled an extraordinary session, to solve local problems, when it comes to the general interest of our citizens, in November 25, at 12 o'clock, in the Grand Hall of the City of Pancheva Assembly. At that session, we will also discuss intervention measures to help the socially endangered population, and, in addition to the agenda, we will propose a debate on the Statute of Vojvodina. I am informing the citizens of Panchev that this assembly will be held on 25 November 2009. I also inform the President of the Panchev City Assembly of the DSS, that he also comes to that session, and I call this way, in another way, I don't know how, and the mayor of Panchev to come to this session of the Panchev City Assembly, where we would solve problems at the local level. Therefore, I think it would be necessary to take care of the savings. There are places, in various ways. Another savings to improve the material situation and the material position of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30919	People's MP, the time at your disposal has been used. Thank you. On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30920	I just asked the amendment to make a little change, to "or" replace it with "i." You know, when it's said right, in the list, "and," then it's cumulative, and when it's said "or," it's alternative. However, I have received an answer, which I am ashamed to comment on, to be honest with you. It is an obligation to provide information on the number of employees in local self-government via the municipality’s website or on the advertising board. But you can see for yourself how they interpret it. Probably because I suggested, they don't accept. At the very least, it doesn't matter, you're headed that way and there's no need to get you up. You said you'd fall - fall. But citizens need to know that this is the law that DOS denies itself. In nine years, they managed to increase the number of employees and local self-government. Just to remind you, nine years ago there were protests, allegedly, the central government doesn't direct transfer funds to municipalities, etc. At the time, there was no understanding of NATO aggression and some problems of economic nature, and now, I have to tell you that in June or March of this year, 15 billion were denied, not us, but the government had cut funds from the budget to local self-government, and that transfer funds. By trying to solve this matter by law, you have virtually denied the possibility and political parties that their inventivity, their political programme, would be an alternative. Because you want the means to put into four proms per 1,000 inhabitants, which is totally unacceptable, because before this bill really does not have a constitutional basis and does not lead to anything. Let me remind you, you used to solve these things by putting a few members into the budget law that you...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30921	Two minutes, thank you. On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30922	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this law could have been a nice regulation. So everything could be regulated by one regulation, but, what is it, there it is. Since we're already at the end of the amendments to this bill, it happens here that little fish go to the pan, and the big fish will still get fat and grow. Who are the little fish? Employees in local self-government. There is indeed a mechanism here to punish all those who do not comply with the provisions of this law, and should, when we pass laws, have the power of obligation. But as far as the previous law is concerned, you have already been pointed out here by Article 13 of the Law on the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration, he orders the elders of the state authorities to adopt an act on the organisation. One of the ministers, Mrs Kalanovic, said -- I will not abide by the law. I learned to hire, not to fire workers. What message are we sending, and what is the obligation under the law on local self-government? Not at all. You from your party and SRS MPs are in one agreement, which is that we do not want to hire in the state administration, but in the real sector. Tell me, where? Is it possible on the train tracks at Lapov's? Is it, perhaps, in the Kombinat 'Raška', or in similar combinations, in 'Viscoza', 'Cruska', or in other companies? It is impossible and therefore we find this law unacceptable. We can't be for those laws that lead to the abolition of employees, to a reduction in numbers. You transferred this to the Ministry of Finance's jurisdiction. We have proposed that the implementation of this law, in one part, in particular, in the part of the provisions of Article 11, be taken into account by the Ministry of State Administration, because we want to reduce the number of employees, if you intend to do so and you want to do so, and according to political....
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30923	Two minutes. Thank you. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30924	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, we have proposed an amendment, to say right away, I do not like to write amendments where something is deleted, but there was really no other. In fact, Article 12 of this law provides that practically all issues of importance for the implementation of this law are being decided by the government. I think the government, by nature, has better things to do than this. That's one thing. Secondly, if someone from the government needs to take care of this, then it would be the Ministry of Local Administration. I don't see any reason why the whole government is keeping an eye on whether anyone's there, some coffee cook in some county getting fired or not getting fired. To put it simply, we have suggested that this member be deleted or reformed in a way too largely, that it is done by the competent ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30925	On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30926	Article 12 states that the manner and deadlines of the reporting referred to in Article 8(1) of this Law, then, contained in the register referred to in Article 11(3) of this Law, as well as other issues of importance for the implementation of this Act, is being drawn up by the Government. We ask that it be added – within 15 days. In all relevant issues relating to the manner and time limits of reporting, the Government shall adopt specific acts for the content of the register, as well as for other issues. But when will the government bring those acts? That's probably what the IMF didn't tell you, and everything the IMF doesn't tell you, there's some kind of legal void. What time will the government do that? It could take three months without the government bringing in these acts, right? So far, the government has not assured us of its up-to-dateness, its zeal. We really don't trust this government, that it will bring these acts within a reasonable period of time. That's why we're asking it to be within 15 days, so that the provision of this member won't be groundless. We suggest that the Government must bring these acts into force within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this law. Whenever something concrete is sought, the government avoids it. Because giving someone an obligation to do something, not predicting a deadline in which someone will do something, especially if it is the Serbian government, is really illusory and should accept this amendment to the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30927	On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Djuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30928	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, as well as in the previous law, on the determination of the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration, in Article 8, we asked to say "financial affairs", in exchange for the words "state administrations and local self-government". It's the same thing - violation of the Government Act by two basiss. One ministry, such as the Ministry of Economy and Equal Regional Development, headed by Mladjan Dinkic, is in charge of the second ministry, which is the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, and afterwards, the Ministry of Regional Development suggests that the Ministry of Finance oversee this law. So, this amendment went too far under the Government Act. We hope you will accept this amendment and thus improve this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30929	Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Shami. I'm just asking you to reapply to the electronic system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30930	Thank you. Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, this Article 13 to him and come as some cherry on the cream cake, the caller, represented by this and the previous law. No, it's not a robbery point, Mr. Krassic, this is the point of the human mind. Namely, to suggest that the Ministry of Finance take care of the implementation of this law, it's simply incomprehensible to me. I'd still understand that it's a special job, which isn't provided for by the Government Act, so now, come on, some ministry is doing it. Mrs Dragutinovic better take care of those billions that went to her place, and leave this job to that ministry, if any ministry should take care of this rather than the Ministry of Finance. Speaking of finance, I think that, strategically, local self-government is being misfinanced, in terms of poor funding. These problems, and neither would this law be if local self-government had executed decentralisation, but not separation, but decentralisation of the Serbian state, if the local self-government had been left with the possibility of earning money, for example, by granting it some sales tax, so she would be interested in jobs in her territory, so that on the basis of her incomes and expenditures she employs whoever she wants and how much she wants. I'm going back to both of these laws. It is an opportunity to conclude a discussion on this subject. This is, unfortunately, one in a row, and we've had more of these laws of this government, laws that are monsters of the law, laws out of every sense and every logic, laws that try to solve one problem by creating another thousand and one more problem and, in fact, nothing will solve it. The same was the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Information Act, so it will eventually end up in the Constitutional Court or Strasbourg. And this law will end up in some textbooks for future generations, as an example of how inadequate means try to solve a problem. The whole problem is that we promised the IMF that instead of 10% of gross income, we'd spend 8% on government salaries, which we can't solve this problem, and we're trying to justify all of that to some, I'd say, demagogue stories. To be clear, no one likes the administration, I don't love it first. I've spent days and weeks standing on various counters, often for completely pointless things, but don't kid yourself, it won't make those millions of unemployed more happy if another 10,000 unemployed show up, because that just means even more pressure on various social givings, on folk cuisines, at the end of the day, competition in job-seeking. Nothing in this law, nothing at all, will change. On the real side, and that's where I did the math, the total balance of all these laws, relative to our budget deficits, minimal, almost zero, and when I take the costs that will be incurred by the application of this law, I even think the state will be in negative. Instead of all that, let's make a really serious cut. That, I believe, is what all political parties are interested in, to make a really effective administration, to solve the problem. At the end of the line, as Mrs Kalanovic said, there are some who have been working for 20 years and do not know the job they should be doing. I know there's a lot of people in the administration who don't really know the difference between a computer and an iron, or the only similarity they see in the power. And that's what needs to be solved. On the one hand, we need to find places for young and educated. On the other hand, there should be insight toward those who spent 30 years in that administration, who are on the verge of retirement and who, by the logic of things, should provide something. Counting on them to get dressed now, at 60 or 55 years old, it's hard to do that. Let's make some sense, let's go the way it's done, film what we really need, see if we have any shortages or surpluses. If we have extra employees, what do we do with that surplus, in which way they'll be provided, in some way, if they're retired, I don't know, to buy them out of work. I'm just... I'm just... I'm... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm It's all supposed to be beautifully designed and well written. What's being suggested is hiducia, and what's seriously worrying is that it's become style. Hajducia must not be a style, Mrs. Kalanovic. This is already the third or, even, the fourth law whose basic motto is hiducia. They won't get far with a hiducium, I guarantee you, but I'm not worried about you, I'm worried about this country, which will later, i.e. Whose next five governments are going to have to iron these hiduchi. So, please, if you won't accept the DSS amendments, which are all in one direction, which is that this is the law on procedure, the way that there will be a reduction in the number of administrations, if you won't, then, aman, pull this miracle out of the law and give that problem, and we all agree, solve it the way it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30931	Eight minutes have been used since the Parliament Group's time. It's still available for 2.30 minutes. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30932	It's really amazing that this is where the Ministry of Finance should be involved, instead of the Department of State Administration. I understand that there are major financial effects behind this that must be monitored, so for the sake of monitoring the financial effects of this entire operation, the decapitation of people in the state administration, the Ministry of Finance appears as the competent ministry to escort this job. I remember the opening statement of Minister Mladjan Dinkic, when he said, which can be verified in the stenograms, that the financial effects of this law are very small, or minimal in relation to other positive effects that this law can have, when it comes to rationalising the state administration, or the state administration. In our opinion, his view on the rationalisation and improvement of the state administration of this law is not correct. It's all just not so, but the man admitted that the financial effects were extremely small. You'll fire 3,000 people and a lot more after the local administration, by law enforcement, of course, through political pressure, political coercion and political execution, through an irreparable assessment – it doesn't satisfy, which you'll be sending to officials, brought both by grandmother and by uncles, but that supervision of this whole job should be carried out by the Ministry of Finance, which is, believe me, completely inexplicable. This is an indirect portfolio, all of what we're talking about, the State Department. What was going on between you two in the government? Probably the pressure that G17 plus did, through his president, on the rest of the government, to adopt this solution as a result of all this. I suppose that the other ministers, especially the resolute Minister of State Administration, did not easily accept that this would fall on his burden, so that the interpretation of this matter in the National Assembly, which is evident, is neither taking any direct legal responsibility over this project. It's a matter of politics, it's a matter of your political agreement, on the one hand, although, on the other hand, this political agreement clearly shows that things are in this thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30933	Time is used, two minutes and 30 seconds. Thank you. On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Petar Jojic. National MP, please, just once, for registration into the electronic system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30934	Ladies and gentlemen, the goal of this law, as I understand it, is to streamline and save funds. As for Panchev, in order to secure funds in the budget, above all, and to save, the following privatisation contracts had to be broken, thus ensuring that the citizens of Panchev had some benefit from what they had done in the past tens of years, created, and what others had robbed. First of all, the Veterinary Station in Pancheva is privatized, then VP "Pansirovina", "Utva car", NIP Cybernetski center – Pančevo, "Pančevo", "Pančevo industry smorba Pančevo, "Utva service" Pančevo, "Tamiš informika" Pančevo, "Utva project" Pančevo, "Silomont" Pančevo, "Silomont" Pančevo, "Silomont" Pančevo, "Costructor" Pančevo, "Same Tamis" Pančevo, "Tamis shop" Pančevo, "Tamis store" Pančevo, "Mine equipment" Pančevo, "Electro Transport", "Gaj", "Gata", "Stak" Pančevo, "Petroremont", "Petroremont" Pančevo", "Star" Pančevo", "Star" "Star" "Star" "Star" "Star" "Star" "Star" "Star" "Star" "Star" "Star" "Star" "Star" "Star" "Star" "Star" "Star" "Star" "Kris" "Kris" "K. Ladies and gentlemen, if you're going to save, of the 25 ministries, please reduce them to 10, as would be parallel law and parallel states, plus 111 republican authorities and funds. You have 17 administrations, 20 agencies, 11 funds, five directorates, nine institutes, services and inspectorates, and not to mention another 8,000 beneficiaries of budget funds. What Mr. Đurić Arsen said, when it comes to Cajetina, there are not enough police, there are no health workers, there are no institutions, institutions, and daily there are 50,000 people in the municipality of Chatin. So, ladies and gentlemen, then you must step up, this is a specific municipality. It's also about other municipalities, so this, in general, didn't have to and should not have been such a bill when it comes to certain municipalities and certain cities. So here's your possible savings.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30935	Thank you, two minutes. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Regulation of the Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia and borrowers or GUARANTA FOR OBLIGATIONS BY THE INVESTIGATION AND RURAL ASSESSMENT BOOKS I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly is Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, in view of the discussion of the 12th point of the agenda, and in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the National Assembly's representative, Dr Diana Dragutinovic, finance minister, Mr Verica Kalanovic, National Investment Plan Minister and Dr Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Services, called for the meeting to be attended by Zorica Dunovic, Assistant Minister of Finance and Rajna Andric of the Ministry of Finance. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by MPs Lidija Dimitrijevic, Dejan Mirovic and Milorad Buh. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30936	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a law on regulation of relations between the Republic of Serbia and borrowers or guarantees for commitments made under the loans of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the SRS Parliamentary Club submitted a total of three amendments. For the sake of the public, I point out that all three amendments have been submitted exclusively with the intention of trying to make it clear to the authorities that we disagree with the policy that leads to Kosovo and Metohija, that it is wrong, and that it could even be said, and a destructive policy. The fact is that the AP Kosovo and Metohija, practically, are under occupation, 15% of the territory of the Republic of Serbia has been seized and seems to be creating a separate state in the territory -- Kosovo. The SRS insists that the Serbian government must not, that it has no right to participate in this in any way. The result of our efforts and efforts are amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if in one official document, such as this bill, which is currently in the assembly procedure, is written in Article 1 that 'this law regulates the relations of the Republic of Serbia and borrowers or guarantors based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia outside the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija', a legitimate question is raised – does that not mean that the Republic of Serbia indirectly recognises independence? This territory, 15%, must be treated by Serbian authorities the same way as the rest of the territory. It is important to stress, for who knows which time, that UN Resolution 1244, as one of the objectives, stated Kosovo and Metohija's accommodation under the UN's provisional administration, is temporary. Also, this resolution guarantees the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. I will now quote some parts of what has been said in recent years, and all in order for the Serbian southern province of Kosovo and Metohija, contrary to all the principles of international law, to kidnap Serbia. In January 2005, as the executive director of the banking and payment authorities of Kosovo, which has the function of the central bank in Kosovo, French Michel Svesin came. In an interview, on the question -- how do you assess the situation of the banking sector in Kosovo, it answers -- given the fact that everything has been made of nothing since 1999, and by comparing the situation of the same in neighbouring countries, I can say that the situation of the banking sector is very good. ''Of course, there needs to be much improvement, especially in the deposit collection. In fact, a lot of transactions were made in cash. I'm sure there's a lot of savings stored under mattresses or foreign accounts. Kosovo must therefore increase the collection of deposits. It is the only way to provide the banking system with more foundations, to finance the development of companies, mostly small and medium-sized enterprises. '' Furthermore, on the issue – which will have an impact on the banking sector recently signed Framework Agreement with the European Investment Bank, as well as on the Memorandum of Understanding with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Michel Svešin answers: 'The impact will be very positive. I am very happy that the EBRD has already invested in the capital of a domestic bank and signed a loan agreement with a local bank, which will now be able to provide foundations for small and medium-sized enterprises. This will support the development of domestic banks since they are unable to provide long-term deposits." These were part of the 2005 interview. A little less than a month ago, more specifically, on October 30th in the self-proclaimed republic of Kosovo, a 10-year anniversary of the establishment of the central bank of Kosovo was celebrated. At that time, the alleged president of the illegally declared state said: "Today we mark the 10th anniversary of the establishment of one of the major institutions of the statehood of our country, the Central Bank of Kosovo. Over the past 10 years, Kosovo has established and consolidated financial system institutions and achieved banking stability, largely attributed to the Central Bank. Kosovo's banking system, headed by the Central Bank, is a strong incentive for the country's economic development and citizens' well-being." It is further said: "In the course of this year, the Republic of Kosovo has completed a successful process of joining the IMF and the World Bank, which was played by the Central Bank. In this way, we have opened new ways to join the Republic of Kosovo into international institutions and organisations, as well as in the historic processes of Euro-Atlantic integration. "In February of this year, the SRS MPs already warned the public about it, the scandalous behaviour of Austria's Raiffeisen Bank happened. In terms of the bank, which operates in Serbia, independent Kosovo has been treated equally with other countries in Europe. Raiffeisen International is a holding company that manages the business of 16 Raiffeisen banks, according to a prospectus in the Serbian language of the bank. The author of the prospectus explains that the company's headquarters in Vienna and that this bank, except in Serbia, also operates in Hungary, Slovakia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Croatia, Ukraine, Romania, BiH, Slovenia, Kosovo, Belarus and Albania. The government of the self-proclaimed Republic of Kosovo has reportedly the Minister of Trade and Industry, Ljufi Žarko. In April of this year, he was visited by delegations of business people from Germany and Turkey. Here's how he presented to them the conditions Kosovo provides to foreign investors. "Foreign investors now see Kosovo as a potential regional market. Kosovo has created favourable conditions for foreign investment and that Kosovo products can be exported to the EU market and worldwide without a problem. Kosovo is a member of the CEFTA Free Trade Agreement and has full liberalisation of goods, so that Kosovo is seen as a regional market with 30 million consumers. Kosovo has trade preferences with the EU, and the United States has created special trade advantages for our products, with 4,500 items being exported without any problems to the US market." As far as other areas are concerned, it has been said that legislative infrastructure is in full compliance with EU legislation, creating a good business climate, while eliminating all bureaucratic forms for fast business registration. The banking system is secure and there is an increase in deposits and loans. The privatisation of social enterprises is under way, and now the privatisation process of public enterprises is under way, and this is the distribution of KEKA, Airport and PTK, i.e. The post office. This is what representatives of the illegal, declared independent republics of Kosovo and their mentors say, those whose interests are represented in the southern Serbian province. All of what they were talking about I read about because of what was said at the beginning, which is that the Serbian government has no right to participate in any way in creating an independent republic of Kosovo. The bill, which says it refers to entities from the territory of the Republic of Serbia outside the AP KIM territory, should it be adopted, will mean an indirect recognition of independence. That is why it is very important and we are again warning that these three amendments to the SRS parliamentary club must be accepted. As things stand in the southern Serbian province today, whose territory is trying to create a phantom state, the facts are as follows. Since KFOR and UNMIK's arrival, the multiethnic character of the province has been violated. Of the 437 Serb settlements before 1999, except for the municipalities of Leposavic, Zvecan and Zubin Potok, 312 settlements were ethnically cleaned. From the province, more than 250,000 Serbs and other non-Albanians, who found refuge in central Serbia, were exiled and displaced after NATO's "Merciful Angel", while a small portion remained in KIM or went to third countries. According to UNHCR data, of the 200,000 exiled in central Serbia and Montenegro, only 7.286 returned to the province, while data from the KIM Co-ordination Centre say the number of returnees is just over 3,000. More than 7,000 ethnically motivated attacks have been recorded. More than 1,000 Serbs and 104 non-Albanian nationalities were killed. 841 Serbs were abducted, 968 people were badly wounded, and the fate of the missing until today has not been established. According to the Serbian Orthodox Church, the local Albanian population destroyed 5,250 tombstones at 254 cemeterys, while there are no more than 50 monuments. 155 churches and monasteries were damaged, 24 cultural monuments were destroyed, and many monuments of culture and religious heritage were endangered. In two days, in organized violence, in March 2004, I remind you, 34 churches and monasteries were burned, 18 of which are registered monuments of culture of special importance, while one is also on UNESCO's World Heritage List. As for the position of remaining Serbs and other non-Albanians in KIM, they have no freedom of movement and security, and they have great difficulties in securing life's existence. There are many problems in achieving the right to the health care and education of children, while Serbian and other non-Albanians' languages are completely neglected in official use, and power and water restrictions are a daily phenomenon for Serbian households. I only remind myself that UNMIK and KFOR are there to allow respect for human rights. It is a terrible fact that 28 Serbs from the Association of Families Kidnapped and Missing Serbs disappeared before NATO aggression, 5% during aggression, and even 75% after the peace forces arrived at KIM. This information is undeniable in the Red Cross. Otherwise, according to the International Committee of the Red Cross, more than 5,200 deaths have been recorded since 1998, and the fate of more than 3,500 people remains unclear. In 2000, 3,300 Albanians were registered and only 300 Serbs were registered in the missing International Committee of the Red Cross. However, according to the Association of Families Kidnapped and Missing, 1,300 Serbs disappeared. In the Red Cross, they said that this is because they respect information that comes from families, or do not take into account the data of neighbors, friends, official data and news reports. All the families of the missing have not spoken to the Red Cross, and in some cases the entire Serb families have disappeared, so their disappearance has no one to report. We will now remember former UN tribunal chief prosecutor Carla del Ponte, who covered up crimes against Kosovo Serbs, who were kidnapped and killed by Albanians. Del Ponte announced to the Association of Serb Families kidnapped and killed in Kosovo in 2004 that he has information that all kidnapped Serbs from Kosovo were later killed, but has failed to know that, before they were killed, their organs were removed. Later, in her book "Lov", she announced that the prosecution, during an investigation into KLA crime against non-Albanians, found out that people had disappeared in conflicts in the province used in an organ smuggling operation, under the auspices of the organisation. Del Ponte hid the truth and kept quiet about the serious crimes against the kidnapped Serbs, which helped the crime, although the missing and kidnapped list was received in 2001. Of course, she didn't arrest anyone. In her book, del Ponte stated that the Hague prosecutor's office had information on the extraction of organs from the kidnapped Serbs with the help of a group of reliable journalists, who claim that in the summer of 1999, trucks to the north had transferred 300 abducted Serbs to whom vital authorities were removed to sell on the black market across Europe. These prisoners were in camps in northern Kosovo, in the cities of Kukesh and Tropoje. We remember the story of the yellow house, in which Albanian surgeons pulled out the organs of the prisoners. The organs removed were sent to Tirana via the Dines Airport to send surgical clinics abroad, where they were used to transplant clients who paid dearly. Because of everything said and mostly because of Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty, amendments to the SRS parliamentary group should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30937	Fourteen minutes has been used since the Parliament's group time. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30938	For the sake of the public, I must say that these three amendments of ours are identical, in terms of our principled attitude, and there's no need to change it, that we simply don't agree. We do not agree and I call on MPs, I invite and representatives of the Government, I invite and all citizens to say, on this agenda, that we do not agree, we do not agree. We simply do not want our regulations to make any kind of discrimination in an unconstitutional way. I must draw your attention to the use of the word "autonomic province" in our constitution, which promotes territorial integrity, integrity, sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. The only exception, I think, was Article 177 or 178. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which mentions the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija, in terms of our commitment to Resolution 1244 to ensure essential autonomy and local self-government for all citizens, all of our citizens in KIM territory. The problem of the SRS, which is why someone doesn't understand us, is exactly the one. If Serbia has adopted the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and regulated our behaviour when we pass laws, then even in these laws where certain obligations, banks, guarantors, end-users, etc., we must respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, in these three members of the bill, where the text is mentioned – not counting, or outside the Autonomous province of KIM, we had to intervene. So, this argument of yours, we don't even want to comment on it, because it's completely irrelevant. Completely irrelevant. There's no excuse, there's no excuse that from our regulations, that this kind of distinction can be made in our laws between our two autonomous provinces. I now draw your attention to some future session, where there will be talks on the statute and the law on the jurisdiction of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, to make sure that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not recognise what you are thinking. Just because we don't agree to what's going on with Kim's territory, you have to accept that you don't. This is what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia obliges you to do. What's this about? It is indisputable that on 10 June 1999, based on Plan Ahtisaari-Cernomidin and Kumanovo's agreement, a Security Council resolution recognising the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia on its territory and on KIM was adopted. Undisputed that she is under the patronage of the United Nations. It is indisputable that we have the right to be present in that territory. I'm not going to go into the details now that everyone knows that. It is unacceptable to act as a government that simply makes everything an order to those who care about KiM as an independent state. That's what we condemn. We're not asking you to fight, we're not asking you to fire tanks, we're not asking for any kind of violence, but we're asking you to raise your voice, because that's your obligation. You can't say yes, because when you say yes, it means not only verbally, on paper, but also on conventional actions. Now I'm going to give you some of your moves that represent consent. You agree to this new reality, you agree that Kosovo and Metohija are slowly but certainly slipping. Verbal opposition will be of little use. Your verbal opposition is, like, mingling, that the nation a little bit settles down, that apparently a great force is stuck, but that great force has to be said that we don't have the right to do it. We have no right. Among other things, we don't have the right to many things, we don't have the right, not even to interfere with what's going on in the SPC, because it's older than, Malten, our country. Who gave us that right? Let's get in line. A senior Macedonian official arrived yesterday, warmly hailed the president of the Republic. The main news is that, yes, we have recognised Macedonia in its name, and Greece has blocked all possible integration of Macedonia because of the name. Now I don't understand if you want to fight with the Greeks? I don't understand your moves. The second move I cannot understand, the current prime minister of the Macedonian government was an assistant, a minister's adviser at a time when the finance minister was Bozidar Djelic. He has coldly recognised Kosovo's independence. Remember, last year, in front of the General Assembly Council meeting, where a decision was to be made that the issue of an independent Kosovo goes to the International Court of Justice, Montenegro recognised unilaterally independent Kosovo. You continue to shake hands, to find, apparently, some common interests and to justify all this – to make it easier for the citizens. To make it easier for the citizens? I don't get it. We are likely to have several ratifications of international agreements with countries that have recognised Kosovo's independence in the course of this session next week. Please, is that possible in some serious states? Here, I'll start with one benign example. In the South African Republic, the majority of the population didn't make peace for 20 years with the fact that their leader was in prison, and they won. The whole world had to confess and was defeated apartheid. But they were persistent in that fight of theirs. Not to talk about the Middle East, where there are, too, small countries that care about protecting their territory, they care about their statehood, simply, they fight with a lot of means, maybe some way, and they're exaggerating, but they keep fighting for what's theirs. They simply have no right to trade something they received from their ancestors. It's happening all the way around here. Let us remember in 2008, almost everyone in the National Assembly insisted that one resolution should be adopted to express disagreement, a protest, which would send a message that we do not want EULEX as one mission that should allow the rule of law in KIM, but the rule of law for the majority population, which should form a state, although years earlier their staffs were trained to do so in Croatia, which in Slovenia, is prepared for it. We couldn't bring that resolution. Then later, in December of last year, it turned out that the government called for Eulex, accepted Eulex, counting on them to come to the EU faster. You simply subordinated your life to one of your political ideals in Serbia. It's hard to live in Serbia. Both Serbia and the Serbian people have the right to live. They have the right to a good life. It is also the task of the National Assembly, when the law is passed, and the task of all those involved in politics, to enable a good life for the citizens. But no, you have tactics, let's give up something, let's keep something quiet, come on, let's cover some media events, let's not pay attention, so that's how it'll go, somehow we'll please your bosses, to please those abroad, and they'll be happy. A few days ago, Robertson boasted that NATO had a successful action on KIM territory and that everyone had returned to their homes, but did not know that 200,000 and some Serbs had not returned. A few days ago, we had these choices. Until a month and a half ago, they didn't know whether to hold elections or to postpone them, because November 15th somehow approached them on December 1st, when the debate in the International Court of Justice began, so they thought about what to do, how to do, but the 21st Serbian list appeared. How is that possible? When they look at those lists, when they look at who went to their elections -- civil servants, Serbs from the KIM who receive salaries from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Some, however, are receiving from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but also from Thaci's budget. They don't have a problem. Should they create the political will of the people who live on KIM? The minister's security in Leposavic made an incident, someone threw away a stone, broke down a windshield, disbanded the municipal assembly, called a new election, and there's no reason, there's nothing. KiM's life depends on the KIM minister, and he was the first Serb in a transitional government, a temporary government in the KIM territory several years ago. What kind of messages do you send people? Take everything life gives you. Pull up the system. How many people, how far? It doesn't lead to any solution. It's just the stores this government says it fits. You can say yes as Government, but you're a minority, you're 20 or 30. That is not the authentic will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The authentic will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and you must respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This is our intervention. We are not asking you for anything impossible, we are aware of the situation, we are aware that whoever made the plan for an independent Kosovo has won the Nobel Peace Prize. Someone can get away, someone can get baptized by miracles, but that's how this international community works. Just don't go along with it. That's our warning, that's our criticism. That's why we raise our voice. Some times you don't like it, some times we get a little more feel for some, but it's a clear message. You don't have the right to agree to split the country. That right doesn't have anyone. Let's move on. What kind of personnel represent this government on KIM? Like horns in a bag. To tell you the truth, the three strike parties that make up this government have three exposed personnel in KIM territory, and they don't talk to each other. They're trying who's gonna be the bigger Santa Claus. Here is what they do in Leposavic, they pave some juice until they enter the village and say openly – we will go through the village when they win, and we know who should win. Why are you tearing people apart? You've removed transfer funds from your budget, you promise people jobs, you promise towers and cities, just to vote for you. What is the ultimate effect of your authority? It's a landing. For what? Yes, slowly, but surely, this is leaving, it's leaving. So how are you going to represent your position before the International Court of Justice when the opposite party asks you – you see, we have finished this job? Customs goes now, other things go, they want to round the statehood of the independent state of Kosovo, and what are our instruments? Our instruments are that we recognise in law that Kosovo is no longer an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. Where did you get that right? You have no right to do that. You will either adopt these amendments, or this law will be withdrawn. Do you see for yourself that this main argument of yours – 126 votes, the worst argument that could be used. It's reportedly the profiled will of members of the legislative body, but what's worth when it's the opposite of the Constitution. It's all nothing from the point of view of constitutionality and legality, absolutely nothing. I don't see why this is how it breaks down and gives material to those who can't wait for materials like this to show up and rub their hands out of pleasure, to say -- well, Serbia's in a mouse hole. Now you're opening the issue of the Duke, there's going to be some other questions, not to be a black raven who prophesysing something bad, to skip a little bit, but that's your policy. You know, the best partner for Serbia's protection, for the protection of territorial integrity, you have in the SRS. There is no more faithful political party on the political scene of Serbia, which clearly raises its voice. We try to always tell the truth, we try to represent, first of all, what is the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we stick to this Constitution, sometimes it may not suit us, but the Constitution is something that are citizens... Of course, we criticise the practice of how you apply the Constitution, it's our legitimate right. You know, there's a lot of things, I don't want to pick them up, I don't want to be detailed, I don't want to talk about the consequences, I don't want to apostrophe all the causes, because there's got to be some restraint, there's still something that doesn't go too far, but there's got to be a clear message to our citizens. The SRS is against this law. We have tabled three amendments to correct the text of the law, in terms of compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The SRS doesn't agree to what we're doing, that the state is tearing us apart, slowly, but surely. Please, without any intention to abuse anything, but anyone who deals with politics yesterday received a great moral class. Citizens know what's good, they know what's moral, and they respect it. Let's all stick to it. Let's all make a contribution to sticking to it. Let this Serbia be ruled by morality again. Let him rule well in this Serbia. Let's all be on the trail of how to provide something better, how to provide jobs, how to provide jobs, how to provide those people living in their hearths on Kim's territory, both in the north and those in those damn enclaves. But you don't send that message, that's the problem. When you don't send that clear message, then people are confused and I'm not surprised at all that at all, because of the mere existence or some great wealth, it also agrees to go with Thaci, to go with these or those, etc. You're just making him go there. You don't want to admit something that happened last year, May 11th. You've blocked all these municipalities, you don't transfer pay funds, you don't transfer funds to those most basic municipal investments that need to be made in these enclaves, and then, of course, you encourage the election to be discussed, so you can start your campaign, as it was in Gracanica. Open a cafe, three days – iju-ju, i-i etc., all happy, beautiful, as if everything around us is okay. You know, Thaci said it himself - peace, until this debate begins before the International Court of Justice. And they watch what happens in international relations, in some other locations, can some precedent just for this case be made, etc. They have foreign support and they're looking for suitable people here to accept it, to agree to it. You must not agree and every move must manifest the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and that no one will ever give up KIM in Serbia. It has to be repeated over and over again. This must be said in every place, and not – we go with some protest note, after 10 days – where, my friend Vujanović, you are, how you, Philip, brother, let us kiss the heroic hearts of two, two heroic eyes etc., turkey dots, don't count, all forgotten what was and two days you've been farming – well, Montenegro stabbed us in the back, etc. Or, now you have Estonia, other countries that have recognised independent Kosovo. You're making agreements on avoidance of double taxation, and I don't believe that in Estonia we have 10 businessmen who fall under the provisions of that law. We need to make it clear what the priority is. The priority is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The priority is what is defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that is the system of values that we all manage. If the government doesn't send such a message, then this government isn't good. Then the citizens of the Republic of Serbia deserve a better government, a much better government they deserve. I don't know how much longer you can media manipulations to keep an eye on you. The Fiat thing, you see the weighty thing, the free stock thing, you see how it goes. You're going to hire 300,000, and every month you're firing 10,000, here, and now you're going with this. Now you have internal chaos. But it's yours, I'm not getting into it that much. It's yours, you'll get out of it somehow. You've seen for yourself what these kiosk coalitions look like, what they look like. But that's not what the citizens of Serbia want. They want the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia respected. They're looking for a clear message about what the system of values is, how to define their behavior. This is how you confuse them. You're giving something here that's currently useful, in front of something that's both the Constitution and morals and everything else. It's a bad message, and we're such a small people that if we don't return to morality, our spirituality and our honesty, our truth and our work, we're gone. You have to understand that. It's the fate of small nations. That's why we have to go back to our values, about these values to gather together, such regulations to bring, such a message to go out of this room. What is this message from this room - 15 MPs? I can draw a conclusion, because of these amendments of ours, that someone is simply sick of this Kim and can't listen anymore. There are probably other reasons, but in the end, it doesn't matter. The important thing is that the government must not send messages to deny KIM. You wrote in an explanation that we'll get the right later to collect. Please move this explanation so the public doesn't see it. Please don't let the public see him. It's a lot of times hard for me to comment on the government's arguments. You know, it's about some argument as if, I don't know, Murphy's laws. I had so much to say to you, and I would ask you, as a man who has been in this room for a long time, who, as a rule, doesn't accept what he's saying, but I would ask you, first of all, as a man -- to adopt these amendments, don't you take KIM from the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30939	It was used 22 minutes from the time of the Parliament's group, 36 minutes in total, so it is available to the MP group for 31 minutes and 12 seconds. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30940	I would like to say a word about the law that is on the agenda, given that point 12 speaks about the proposal for a law on regulation of the relationship between the Republic of Serbia as a borrower, or a guarantee of commitments to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I want to, in order to inform the public truthfully, to say that it is a release from the obligations of the Vojvodjanska Banka and Agrobanka for loans by which they were guarantees for a direct and indirect component, and that part of the debt, i.e. loans that were used by legal persons from the AP KIM territory in 1990-1996, was excluded from release, except for forgiveness of the debt, in order to retain the right over that debt, over those legal persons, which was done by the NBJ, reporting a claim on this basis from the 'Kosovo Bank' AD Pristina in bankruptcy, whose head office is in Belgrade. I don't care how you understand something the MP says, how someone else understands the law, but this is a fact written in the law. On the contrary, if those obligations had been released, we would have lost the right to demand on that basis. It's not about any kind of release, on the contrary, the Vojvodina Bank and Agrobank are being released on the basis of a loan for the Water Fund, what agricultural cooperatives used to develop agriculture, and this remains as a claim to legal persons in the AP KIM. What is not good in this law, and perhaps it is good, is that we remember how easily in 2002 we converted the dollar debt to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 2.1 billion and converted it into euro, which is not good for us as a state, because the relationship was almost 1 : 1. If we had left that conversion, which we were entitled to, for later, maybe the terms of payment of this loan, which will last until 2031, would have been more favourable for us. 50 million dollars' worth of interest has been paid off. We're left with more interest calculated, about, like, 100 million dollars. I say around, because interest is variable and will be paid by 2031. To remind ourselves, that we would not go lightly into these loans, that through the Public Debt Administration we were doing a more serious conversion of these foreign exchange obligations, because that is the obligation of the Public Debt Administration, and that as a state we have a responsible relationship with investment, according to claims and the regressive right of payment from these and these guarantees. This law will also look forward to the 'Vojvodjanska' and 'Agrobanka', and it is not a gift to them, and the two banks have settled their obligation on the basis of an indirect component, because they sold foreign exchanges to the state at the time and received dinars and what was a direct component was translated into the founding role of the Republic of Serbia in those banks. It's the truth about this law and I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30941	There are 11 minutes and 10 seconds left from the time of the authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30942	Ladies and gentlemen, this law can be linked to the fact that in August 2009, around $550m was written off to the Republic of Serbia on the basis of so-called. Kosovo debt. However, nowhere in the law, nor in the public of Serbia can it be found that from 2002 to February 2008, only 360m dollars were paid to the World Bank. In that sense, our amendments are filed because of the AP KiM exemption, because when you add these figures and take into account the text of the law, you will come to the fact that, in fact, financial independence is recognised so-called. KIM countries for 190m dollars, or 135m euros. When you compare that there are about 13.5 billion euros in mining wealth in KiM with these 135m euros, you will come to the fact that it is only one percent. Of course, this is not an isolated process, and I will remind you, as far as separatism is concerned, that the first German mark was introduced in Montenegro, then the euro, and that it was, firstly, financial independence, and then political independence, and what it does not say, but we will talk about it more in an argument when the Vojvodina statute comes on the agenda, that the 27th member of the Vojvodina Statutes is foreseen that our other province can be in debt on the financial market. That's completely contrary to Article 82. The Constitution, which stipulates that autonomous provinces and local self-government can be entrusted only with the conditions prescribed by law. Therefore, it is a related process, a process that is obviously encouraged from the United States, and it is no secret, so that individual quasi-positional politicians, who say that no one has affected this proposal of the Vojvodina Statute, are wrong. It is also pointless to agree to such conditions as the World Bank shows a comparison with the 2007 GDP because of such a small figure compared to Serbia's GDP. It was about 30 billion euros. So, in fact, you're allowed to be in charge of so-called debt. Kosovo states for about 0.3% of Serbia's GDP. It's also a scandalous fact. We of the SRS believe that the 130m euros and some million euros could have been found on some other sides, from some other companies and people operating in the financial market of the Republic of Serbia. We have an example of American companies, so it's from that country behind this illegal secession of Kosovo and Metohija that we have the "Duvanical Nis" industry, which only earned in 2008, i.e. She had a net income of about 2.5 billion dinars. It is even more scandalous not to increase taxes for Ju-Es Steel, or former Sartid, where exports in one year alone, in the pre-crisis year, amounted to $1 billion, means somewhere around 14% of Serbia's total exports. It's all been won for about $20 million, which is about 2% in comparison to this export, which is scandalous. Also, the same employers fired a large number of workers, regardless of what the Economic Institute estimated the value of Sartida in 2003 at about $50m. It's the scandalous behavior of U.S. employers. Also, they changed their salaries. In December 2008, salaries amounted to about 40,000 dinars, and in January, 26,000 dinars. So the economic crisis has been used to drastically cut salary levels. As far as the World Bank is concerned, it is absolutely incredible from the economic point of view that the main blow to the IMF and the World Bank's terms is related to our pensioners. If memory doesn't cheat on me, there are about a million and 600,000 in Serbia, a million and 200,000 pensioners in Serbia, and their incomes range from 20,000 to 11,000 dinars. So they're the last part of our society to apply these rigid terms of the World Bank. In the end, it's obvious that I'm going to stop what's called the so-called. Kosovo has not received anything in the World Bank, but only one minimum savings of 160m euros, the amount of these loans, which, when you look at it, is in fact no savings, because the burden is being transferred from banks and businesses to the state, the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30943	It's been used three minutes and 50 seconds since the Parliament Group's time. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30944	This article is similar to the first one. The first refers to banks, and this refers to end-users. If this historical aspect is taken now, as end-users they could be SOURs and working organizations. If in Article 2. The bill states that it applies to all users, so the ultimate users based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia outside the AP Kosovo and Metohija, then I must tell you that a large number of our economic capacities are located in the territory of KIM. It should be known that there was a special federal fund to help underdeveloped, especially aid to KIM territory. Which international loans, what is all built, are not directly related to this topic, but it is important to know, because we are talking about the term "end user". The end-user could have been a working organization. In addition to this fundamental problem of unconstitutionalness, because the Constitution of the Autonomous Province knows in the plural rather than in the one, there must be no difference in their status as territory, but there must be no difference in end-users' status. If the end-user is a company falling under Article 2, then it is entirely irrelevant, when defining the term "end-user", is he in Belgrade, Novi Sad or Pristina. This kind of division and demarcation is unacceptable. That's what this is about. In a specific case, various solutions are possible, but this is already an enforcement of the law. We are talking here at the level of principle, the principle that reads – in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there must be no such division. It really means division here, but it's off-limits. That's our basic objection. Who understands, that's another question, whether he wants to understand, or not he wants to understand. I do not dispute that there are people on the political scene who are bothered by this KIM status within the Republic of Serbia. They made clear, not only when adopting the Constitution, but also in their political stances, where they say – there is no need to waste time with the story of KIM. It's their political stance, but they're clear. Thank God, they're in the minority. They show some kind of courage in relation to some in most, who make up most, and they don't want to admit it publicly, but they'll do anything to make it happen. Simply, for many in this government KIM is really ballast, like a rock around the neck, and they don't want to face it. They want to be practical, they want to say – plus, minus, draw the line and see where it is. It's this expert way of thinking, which has no insight into what the state is, what the people are, what human rights are, what people are, but simply through the current account and balance in the current account they look at their whole lives. It's this highly simplified individual concept of looking at the world – material wealth, grab, grab, grab, grab, and no matter what goes over corpses, it doesn't matter what happened, or some other black stuff happens. I don't argue that there are such people who see it that way, but we as a people and as a state, as something that's collectiveity, can't look at it like that, can't support it. We must publicly condemn this because it is the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, our interventions are when it comes to this bill, because it is totally unacceptable this kind of behavior, because it goes towards consent. You know, in international law, the first question is whether it exists as a right at all, but it doesn't matter, because it's one arena where interests conflict and everyone uses some argument or fact to make their interest come true or protect it. Therefore, classical law cannot be talked about in international law. For the past 10 years, a little bit more, 14 years, the banking way of thinking has prevailed right. It's that carrot or stick, that's what Holbrooke is – sit down and bring the paper, that's the one Rambouille, sign or close, we're done talking. There are no international negotiations, no conferences, no agreements, but simply, the brutal force comes to the maximum and there is no argument that can question that. That's what we have to say, but we can't go along with it. We need to raise our voice and we need to be careful when writing our regulations, especially us in the Assembly when we make laws, that out of the wording of a member, some attitude, some point, someone can't draw the conclusion that they agree. I have to draw your attention to another very important fact, it has to do with this bill, but it also has to do with some of the laws that have been passed in this assembly, and I think there are a few more in this session of the National Assembly. I think it's one of those gender equality laws. We're talking about the principle, I'm not entering the provisions of the law, it doesn't matter now, you know, the Council of Europe, the EU, some international commission, these NGOs, etc., they're putting a terrible pressure on the rule of law in the Republic of Serbia to pass some laws that, even in their name, have something that's detached from something that's kind of discrimination. Now, if someone said there was gender discrimination in Serbia, it would lie. They need to pass such a law abroad, because then they say – that is when you freed yourself from your past, although the past was not as they imagined it. But they say you gave us an argument. Then the foreign minister's commendation or this government, as -- has been made great progress, the law has been passed to prevent discrimination. So until the law was passed, that was with us, now you're clear with it. It is similar with this provision, where you say - outside Kosovo and Metohija, absolutely the same, completely similar. Unfortunately, he did not beat my concept, which I have been representing for nine years, to go towards broad autonomy and local self-government, with all rights towards all citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, all of our citizens. It went some other way, regionalization, and cantons, and what all of these previous governments invented, it's hard to mention everything. These were all some variations on the subject – we would, but not to be seen. December of last year, Eulex came. Foreign banks are present in Kosovo and Metohija. Please watch which slap is shared with Serbia. A few days ago -- a monument to Bill Clinton in downtown Pristina, please. Let's not talk about other things. You know, they were a terrorist organization by some date in 1998; Holbrook took off his shoes, crossed his legs, became freedom fighters. It's all about this law. No matter what this delayed transmission goes, whether it's in 2 or 3, it doesn't matter, let it laugh who laughs, I don't care, but it stays recorded in history who fought for what. They laughed at us on June 10, 1999, when we were the only ones on the political scene against the acceptance of Plan Ahtisaari – Chernomidin. Then they told us – you know nothing, the UN, NATO come, they will defend Serbs, there will be international law. What happened? It happened that in a month, Kosovo, the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija, were cleansed ethnically. You know, we couldn't stop them, they had a need to make amends, anyway, and KFOR's afraid the daterorists are headed for them. Who makes the armed forces of Kosovo and Metohija independent Kosovo? NATO Pact. They're bragging about how they're made. They say – these forces will have 2,500 members, 800 will be in reserve, we train them and calculate that each year we reduce several thousand from 15,000 by the end of this year to 10,000, and in the near perspective to only 2,500 people. The messages are clear, he doesn't only understand anyone who doesn't want to. What are you going to do in December 1st, here, what day is December 1st? What kind of bill do we go out here with? You recognise the law – we are not interested in Kosovo and Metohija. That is why we are submitting these amendments, which is why we are calling you to, specifically, when it comes to Article 2 here, talk about end-users of funds, be in law – end-user of funds defined in a general way, end-user of funds from the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Do not share it in the provinces, for you can be sure that someone will misread this provision. Just to draw attention to you, a few years ago there was a big cry about whether the government of the Republic of Serbia, should Serbia at all pay back what is called a Kosovo debt. You know, there were some who said -- no, I don't need that, we need to give up on it, it's not our obligations, etc. This contributed to an independent Kosovo, as it contributed to independent Kosovo and the mild stance that they would be IMF members. How is it possible that someone who is not a UN member of the IMF? You remember in 2000, in November, that I remind you, since I am a contemporary and these events, then an application was submitted for the SRJ to be accepted as a new member of the UN, not to seek to put aside the decision on the suspension of our membership, which was made on 31 May 1992. It is explained – we are suggested to do so because in January 2001 there will be problems in America over the elections. There were really problems with the election. Then the International Court of Justice, in a decision on jurisdiction, where it refused our claim for the lawsuit against the ten countries that bombed us, told us – you know what, from 1992 until 5 November 2000, was the undefined status of the SRJ, whether it was a member of the UN or not, but when a request for admission was filed, it was resolved, so on November 5th, it became a member of the UN. Since these events were in 1999, you have no right, under Article 34. The Statute of the International Court of Justice, to protect against the International Court of Justice. It's your international right. But we have to remind. I wish this country had issued one chronology, by date, whatever was going on, that these young generations would understand that the SFRY was broken, broken from the outside and with the help of some insiders. Now, I need you to put the dots on, don't count, we move on, we agree to that. We can't agree to that. She can't agree to that. Keep an eye out when you're passing the law. Take care of the titles these laws have, because even by titles and date of adoption you admit that there was something that was wrong, discrimination. Does it even make sense to talk to this government, which brings some new reality to fetish level, the new reality represents something that is beyond life and so traumaticly leads this people and this country that citizens have to trade if they want to live, they have to look for a better government. There's no way out of this one.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30945	12 minutes and 55 seconds have been used since the Parliament Group's time. It's available for 14 minutes and 30 seconds. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Milorad Bhuha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30946	We have before us a law that violates the financial and banking system of the Republic of Serbia, and that is only the beginning. It is only the beginning, because after this there will also be certain other legal regulations, which will end up destroying it, in terms of maintaining the financial and banking system and at the premises of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. The leaders of this country assured us a year ago that they would do anything to preserve financial and banking, economic and any other independence of Serbia in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija, but in real life they do not. Why don't they do it? The fact is that we do not have sovereignty in economic and financial terms in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Let's see what happens to the financial system. Does any of our banks have the opportunity to collect their claims from institutions that are officially called the UN-protected institution, or UNMIK? There isn't. Does any of our companies, any of our legal entities have the opportunity to collect their claims and normally deal with institutions and legal persons, businesses in Kosovo and Metohija? There isn't. No payment traffic, no possibility of making bond-law relations that were until 2000. I'm saying, this is just the beginning. We're playing a two-track game. One track is an official state policy established by the Constitution, five resolutions have been made since 2004 to cement our legal, political, economic, economic, financial and banking system in the areas of Serbia with Kosovo and Metohija. However, this government is doing everything to meet the requirements of the West and to scrutinise everything that is an integral part of the Constitution, resolutions, our legal acts. What is the EU's policy towards Kosovo and Metohija and Serbia and how principled it is, i.e. Unprincipled to Serbia, let only one piece of information be served. In 2005, when it consisted of a Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy of the EU from 2007 to 2012, the European Union envisaged pre-accession funds for Kosovo of 565m euros, especially for strengthening state institutions, and what is foreseen for the Republic of Serbia is twice the amount, since we know that there is something more than a million, no more, of the population in KIM, and of Serbia – 7.5 million in the area. Then we see how much they stand out for KIM, I repeat, in 2005. It is this information that speaks of principle and has no independence of self-proclaimed Kosovo yet, there is no indication yet, but the EU is unprincipled to do everything it has done in 1999, together with the United States, in an unprincipled, dirty war against Serbia and the Serb people, secession, etc. What happens to the property of the company, and counterpart Krasic said, we are talking about the Fund for Undeveloped Assistance, etc., underdeveloped provinces and republics. Given that it is a province and a solidarity of separation, solidarity is not meant to be returned. However, there was another legal possibility to allocate funds, these are joint investments. These were not solidarity funds to help underdeveloped provinces. Many of our legal entities have entered into a joint venture with the KIM business entities. What is the fate of these funds? Does anyone have that information? Does anyone have those resources? Did we do anything to recover those funds, or to make these economic operators legally joint economic entities, which share profits if they have any? What is the fate of other investments? We've invested huge funds in KIM's space since 1990. And it's a day-to-day investment. It invested from 2000 to 2007, through subsidies, a lot of funds to help the economy that was squirming in problems due to the war and the economic situation in which the whole country was in place. What is the fate of these funds? Does anyone take care of that? Did we press charges to collect what we invested there, which gives us legitimate international law? No, that's what we keep quiet about. Why does this government keep quiet about all this? This is the government of the court, and it does everything it can to carry out orders, not taking care of national interests. What is the fate of the property of the natural persons who have been expelled in the war? It is a genocide over the Serb people in KIM, over Serbs who were exiled to the premises of the Republic of Serbia in the war. Does anyone take care of their property? Are they going back there? They're not coming back. Their property was robbed, destroyed, burned, devastated, and the Serbs who left can't come back. We're talking about the universality of private property. Is the typrincipt of universality present at KIM? What makes the current government to help Serbs from KiM - mere announcements, promises, but no return, no private property. It's burned and destroyed. What does the state do about pensions, given that Serbia has taken over the obligation to pay out pensions? Is Kosovo paying contributions to our fund right now? No, I don't. Is he paying into other funds to treat internally displaced persons? Whether to pay certain means of schooling internally displaced persons etc.? It's millions of dollars, nobody talks about it. You don't care about that, but that's why we have the opportunity to be in charge, so we're going through all of this, and we're not talking about what we need to talk about with international financial institutions, international intermediaries, with the international community, with all those who need to see. One minute, it's gotta open. The sooner, the better, but, nature gives you six problems, when you say one, they tell you six problems and bury you with problems and obligations. Then, at that moment forget what to do next. Run four, you get six more, then six more, etc. We need to be concerned, in any case, especially by you in the current government, from which means will you put all this together? We're over-indebted. We're squirming. We don't settle normal obligations. As far as this legislation is concerned, this is just the beginning of everything that awaits us, but you have to take an active role. You must draw an independent state of KIM, which is now only implemented through various forms, to all those who in their heads and in their projections, 20-30 years ago, say – you can't do that. There's got to be an end. We have a black picture of Serbs from Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, and also from Montenegro. It has to stop at some point. Let us take a picture of what the president of the Czech Republic, Vaclav Klaus, has done to us, how he should fight for national interests. He's the only one from the president, he's the last one to sign an agreement everyone expected. He's dragged in every way he can, he will, so he won't, then the Constitutional Court, so he'll wait, and he'll see, etc. He is a Eurosceptic, but he made it clear – he can't do that. On the other hand, he sought openly – give us certain benefits. If it was given to Ireland to pass the Lisbon Agreement, if England had done so before because of certain things, if France did so, we want it to be the Czech Republic, regardless of all the commonity, regardless of the benefits that the EU has brought. He sought, demanded and licensed his country this way. That's how people fight for their national interests, not like you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-20-0.u30947	Time is available to the MP group for five minutes and 30 seconds. Anyone else want a word? (No) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the president want to give the final statement on the basis of Article 144? (No) In that case, I conclude a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This concludes our work at today's afternoon session of the National Assembly, and we continue on Monday, November 23, at 10 p.m., by discussing the 13th item of the agenda. Thank you.
