ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27016	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 183 MPs. I remind you, Article 86 is Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Please check how you put your cards in the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic system, there are 128 MPs in the hall, i.e. there are more than 126 MPs present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Please sign in if anyone wants a word. Mr. Slobodan Samardzic, then Mr. Markicevic. You must reapply, Mr. Samardzic, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27017	Dear People's MPs, the Protocol on Political Co-operation between Serbia's MUP and Eulex was signed on 11 September this year. This protocol is signed in great secrecy, away from the eyes of the public. To date, the public has not been informed of the content of this protocol, except through one daily newspaper, which has reached this protocol through its channels. Here, in content, at least they're harassing two things. One is the mention of cross-border co-operation and border control, where the Protocol allows the term 'border' to be understood and understood in an international legal sense. So, like the border of two states. The other problem is that the protocol determines that the two sides share their information on relevant laws, security laws. Therefore, the Protocol recognises Kosovo's laws as an independent state. My question is – will this congregation have the opportunity to plead and discuss this problem? This is one big precedent in internal relations. Kosovo is in fact, and now formally, through the Protocol, recognised as an independent state, the assembly does not declare it. It is heard marginally in public, but Serbia seems to be silent and does not notice the problem. The question is, then, for the President of the Assembly and for the Minister of the Interior, will the Assembly discuss this and when? The second question, which I would like to ask, is about the DSS initiative for a proposal made to this assembly to consider the Law establishing the authority of the Vojvodina. This proposal was submitted by the DSS on 18 April, 11 May, at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we had the opportunity to speak to the President of the Assembly who told us that until then, the proposal had not come to the Assembly's agenda because it was being discussed by the Government. All business deadlines have passed, members 140 and 141. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the Government consider this long ago, in late June and early July of the month, was to find this draft of the DSS law in the Assembly. At this point, we are not interested in disputes within the DS over the Statutes of Vojvodina. So, these disputes at Belgrade – Novi Sad, different interpretations, public confusion over the issue, announcing that the statute would be adopted in the second half of October or in the first half of November. That's not what we're all interested in right now. We are interested in our right to make a proposal for a law and to put this proposal into debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That's what we have a right to, what we insist on. So this bill must be found at the assembly session. The question for Madam President of the Assembly is – when will he be put at the session of this assembly? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27018	Mr. Samardzic, in the proper procedure, any question, of course, can be found on the agenda. Those issues that we are interested in having the government's position cannot be considered until we have that position, especially when it comes to issues of great importance for our country's state and national policy. As far as your first question is concerned, procedurally, if the conditions are met and the matter is raised in accordance with the procedure provided for by the Rules of Procedure is raised, it is absolutely acceptable for each item to come to the agenda. There's a word, Mr. Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27019	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, New Serbia's Parliamentary Group is asking for information from the following state officials: you, Madam President, Prime Minister, Mr Minister of Interior, Mr Minister of Culture and Information, the Committee on the Resolution of Conflict of Interest, the Anti-Corruption Council and the Anti-Corruption Agency, which I hope will start with work on January 1st. What's this about? So, of all these above-mentioned officials and officials, I'm asking for information on what they're going to do after what I've said in these four minutes. So Velimir Ilic, president of New Serbia, presented to the public the data of annual financial reports for the period 2005 to 2008 for the following companies: "Multicom Group", "Mecaine Erikson", "Universal McCain" and "New Communications". The source of all data is the Agency's website for business registers. The Agency for Business Registers is a state body. Almost none of the media published this information. Some have apologized for being under pressure, having children, having employees, and not being allowed to publish this information. So, Universal McCain and Meccane Erikson, the owner of both companies is Srdjan Shaper, a member of the DS presidency. In 2005, the business revenue "Universal McCain" was only 3.585.000 and for the period from 2005 to 2008, the total of 3,280,618,000 dinars. This means that in 2008, the company's business income was increased by 52,000%. The number of employees at Universal McCain in 2008 was only 26 and in Meccane Erikson 93. "New Communications", the owner of this company is Nebojsa Krstic, adviser to the president of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadic and, along with Srdjan Saper, a former member of the music group "Idoli". The number of employees in this company was 1313 in 2007 and in 2008 only 11. I repeat, this is data from the Business Registers Agency. The company "Multicom Group", the owners of 50% of this company are Dragan Gilas – 25% and Milica Delevic-Dilas – 25%. In 2005 and 2006, Dragan Gilas served as director of the National Office of the President of the Republic of Serbia, in 2007, as minister without portfolio in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and took office as mayor in 2008. Milica Delevic-Gilas is the director of the government's EU accession office. The company's business revenue "Multicom Group" was increased by 231,000% in 2008. To get to these five minutes of everything I say, it should be commendable that someone so successful with 11 workers makes that kind of money. Let's propose him for the Nobel Prize in this economic crisis. What is the problem with New Serbia? "New Communications" and "Mecaine Erikson" claimed they had no monopoly on state-owned clients and was the only such client "Telecom Serbia". We've already heard from Mr. Radyukko and talked about some tenders he didn't blame. However, on the official website "Mekane Erikson" as clients are listed as "Clinic Centre of Serbia", whose director is Gjorge Bajec, chairman of the DS Health Committee; KBC "Bizaniska Kosa"; JKP "Parking Service". After a press conference New Serbia held on 22.9, Meccane Eriksson removed a list of clients from his official internet presentation. From 2005 to 2008 (the progress of these four companies and associated companies is 43 billion dinars, over 500m euros, and we are struggling to fill the budget by firing workers. So I'm asking all of you, who I've called here, I've forgotten the Special Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime to check out this data on the Business Registers Agency's website and to inform the Assembly, the New Serbia Parliament Group and all the citizens of Serbia, who I think are very interested in, how is it possible that someone with 11 workers can make that kind of money? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27020	In your questions there are both institutions and individuals who are obliged to follow the allegations that you have stated. That would be my answer. Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27021	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS MP would like to ask the entire government a question, especially the minister of education and the finance minister, and regarding the student protests that we had opportunity to see on the streets of Belgrade. We were particularly shaken by what we could see in the hands of these students, which are passwords – “I sell kidneys for the semester”! I want to remind you that we passed the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System at the last session. At that time, the Minister of Education spoke of the number of illiterates in our country. Although we have talked about this in time, unfortunately in the 21st century, we are facing this problem again, and we ask – are we really so rich a country that we can give up our academic potential, and all because we have been warning since 2003 that this "Bolonia" will not bring us anything new. And you have allowed it to be interpreted as, already, to whom it suits – some wander, some abuse it, and all this goes on our children's coat of arms and us, parents, who need to pay enormous tuition. Let me remind you that the Architectural Faculty is asking for 240,000 dinars for the semester for the Master of Studies, that the same thing in Austria costs 300 euros, that it costs 700 euros in Italy, and that I am not talking about the payability and standard of our citizens. We are asking a concrete question: do we have to face this problem every year at this time or should it be resolved much earlier, before the time comes for enrolment, and is it possible that someone who has given all the exams in one year cannot change their status as a self-financed student in a budget student? Who are these archeologists, where is this going, and why is such a narcissistic policy being conducted? You'll allow it, it's one of the motives of those students who didn't get that lucky at first to sign up as budgetary students, but by their work they deserved the state to support them, say, on the second year of the study. So why doesn't everyone who takes all the exams within the deadline allow the second year to enroll in the status of students financed from the budget and do we have to wait for October of the month, so every year it happens similarly, to solve this problem? And since we have state universities, then the state needs some things to take into its own hands. Because the university's independence is not reflected in how much money it's going to take, it depends on the market and the need for a particular profile or working conditions, which are not quite perfect at our universities, or depends on a serious education policy, which should be important to us and how important? So, we have different views on this – who, when and for what money can register master studies? And I'm asking the same question the students of the Faculty of Technology, the Architectural Faculty – what are they if they don't finish master's studies? Nobody! And they deserve and have conditions to study, but they can't just because they don't have that kind of money. If we're going to go ahead with this, we're going to have really quasi-intelligentness, we're going to have those college graduates just because they could pay, and we're going to leave a lot of talent without a university degree because of that, which, unfortunately, they and their parents didn't have any money. The Serbian Radical Party supports students in their efforts to fight for their rights, because it is, above all, in the interest of our society. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27022	Thank you. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27023	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, I wish you a happy reunion. I hope you're on your way, rested, and you can finally start taking a little care of the state. Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, for telling us that the government is not too interested in major state problems, so one problem has been kept unsolved since May until today, and it is called – the transfer of jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina. Since you, gentlemen of the DOS, came to power, Serbia's disbursement has begun to support the budget, and it continues day and day. Citizens are panicking from new borrowings, and you're boasting how you managed to get a billion here, a billion there, I'm talking, in dollars and euros to support the budget. I ask Mrs. Finance -- did she ask Serbian citizens, does she have their agreement that Serbia is in charge of supporting the budget, that it is in debt and that there are no sources from which it will be able to pay back? It is easy to provide support for 80 MPs. You guys don't give a shit about these borrowings. You've all made sure and settled down. It's not as bad for us from the opposition as it is for the citizens of Serbia! I ask you, do you have the courage to go to the citizens of Serbia and say, "We are in charge of your children so that we do not increase VAT, we are in charge of your children so that we do not reduce pensions, are you citizens of Serbia, agreeing with that borrowing or not?" I suppose you know, Mrs. Djukic, that the laws you are preparing for an emergency procedure, which will enter the procedure, we are in charge of our children and that I have not seen anywhere a new source from which we will be able to repay these loans. If one government cannot settle the budget approved by the Assembly during the year, then it goes either into budget rebalance or that government stands down here in this assembly, thank you for the trust and says – we can't go on because we can't do it anymore and we can't do it any better. The situation is extremely serious. You saw public service employees in Romania on a strike paralyze the entire state. You won't be able to fire thousands of workers anymore without impunity. Now I strongly advise you - do not go into moves that you can cause chaos on the streets of Serbia! You haven't been able to organize one of your parades, and you think you can stay completely calm when you're unhappy, hungry, naked, bare, bare, bare, bare in the streets! I guess it's time for the government to come to the National Assembly, to take us seriously, to introduce us to the proportions of the crisis, not to hear from Mrs. Economist as we came out of the mud and climb up to the height. It's easy to take from Russia a billion, from China billion, from the EU today 400 million, that's easy. Who's gonna pay it back?- I'm sorry. The Serbian Progressive Party government will not. I'll bring you all here, shake out everything you've got in your pockets, all your property, all your property, all your factories, your companies, and return what you took from the people!
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27024	Mr. Nikolic, as usual, you didn't want to understand my comment. The word is Mr. Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27025	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I ask the Government authorities, above all the Minister of Economy and Regional Development, the Minister for Labour and Social Policy and the Minister for Kosovo and Metohija to answer the question – when will the problems of the workers of the Šumar industrial combination "Kopalnik" in Kursumlia be solved, Confections "7. July" in Kursumlia and people who were registered with a residence in Kursumlia who worked in Podujevo have no status at all? All the people from these endangered companies and the endangered status, because they used to work on KIM, remind the sad characters from the stories of Lazarevic, and the government has promised to be socially responsible, to wander from the merciless to the unloved, to the breaking of doors. Like that parable, “Serving of Jernai and his right ” typed everywhere. There's no answer anywhere. There's no hope and perspective for them. There are no futures for them, and the government is socially responsible. I'm asking the same question against completely destroyed companies, and there's a dozen of them in Lebanon. None of the privatisations worked. I don't know if there's more than a few hundred people working there. When you enter Lebanese, it looks like a dead city. All that's left is the scenes, but people are practically gone. They've retreated into some sadness and a chamomile, with no hope, no perspective. That's where cigarettes are bought in pieces. That's where apples are bought in pieces. That's where tomatoes are bought in pieces. In stores, everything goes on the line. No one pays, so when it comes to some poor church, it pays something. Is that the life of a man, a citizen of Europe in the 21st century? Special problems are the employees of the company “Export”. Non-recognition of employment, conversion to second-row citizens, etc. Finally, another question for Minister Dulic, Minister Dragutinovic and others, Termoelectrica "Nikola Tesla" has ruined the lives of Obrenovac citizens for years. It's polluted land, water, air, which is from the chimney that's from the ashes and it's all hidden from the eyes of the public. There are no measuring cells anywhere, and you have enormous concentrations of heavy metals, nickels, lead, live, not to talk about the sulfur, sulfur, of the enormous pollution that is manifested in the health damage of the citizens of Obrenovac. Thousands of people suffer from respiratory disease, respiratory disease, carcinogenic disease. We from the Democratic Christian Party of Serbia have launched a campaign wanting to live in an ecologically clean country. If that is not possible, and we will invite experts from the World Health Organization, then we ask that until at least the citizens of Obrenovac are provided to pay 50% cheaper electricity because they suffer damage, suffer and harmful emissions, cheaper heating, and for farmers to be reduced income tax, too, by 50%, because they are all enormously damaged. If the government has no hearing, I promise, when the Democratic Party of Serbia in Obrenovac comes to power soon, we will force you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27026	Thank you. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, he has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27027	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, without any intention to abuse in any way the very difficult situation in which our society and the obvious effort are, smaller or larger, all parties directed to overcoming violence that has a much deeper root than those recently indicated, I want to ask you to ask for help and support that is necessary at this point, not LDP, but our society, to get answers from the Justice Ministry to one question that must not be left unanswerted. After the death of Bris Taton, a French citizen who was killed in the streets of Belgrade in the middle of September, one of the most prominent representatives of the justice ministry, State Secretary of Justice Slobodan Homen said at a press conference that pressures had been placed on the Ministry of Justice and the competent state authorities, so that the arrested, or suspect in the murder of Bris Taton, were released from custody very quickly. So at this point, we don't want to talk about everything that's preceded it, about the state's reaction. The police have detained 11 people within 24 hours, but we have to get an answer to the question of who are the people who dared to do such a thing. They committed two crimes – trafficking in illicit influence, it is a new crime, and an incentive to abuse the official position. No one in the Ministry of Justice, in the Republic Government, has the right in the state to shut up such an unacceptable procedure as an attempt to influence the state authorities so that those responsible for the crime that was eventually classified as a serious murder would be released from custody. People in office must choose whether these functions will respect the obligation they have to our public and society or to some individuals who may even be more powerful than they are in that case. But we won't go far from facing the consequences, certainly we won't get close to the causes of our problem. If it becomes acceptable for us to move beyond these open issues, without any insistence on answers, the Ministry of Justice, the Republic Government, the Republic Prosecutor, they must act effectively, not only in situations where citizens are killed in the streets, but also in those situations that precede such a situation. I ask you to engage in this and, of course, from Ministerial Justice and Prime Minister Cvetkovic. We need to get an answer to the question of who came to mind and who dared try to do such a thing, to think that such a thing was allowed in Serbia in 2009, in these circumstances. Without it, all efforts remain in the other plan, it is also the biggest compromise, despite everything that the citizens have done to show that Serbia is different from the one that killed Bris Taton, from the one who beats up the streets, from the one who attacked the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine in Novi Sad yesterday, from the one who can't do anything without violence, normal and tolerance. So on such an important question, we insist and ask it until we get answers. If there is no answer, then silence is an expression of solidarity and understanding, and the next step will be a request for resolution by both the secretary of state and the minister of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27028	The delicacy and importance of the topic that goes through your question really obliges me to engage actively in the questions that you have raised with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice and the D.A., and I will do so. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word anymore, we continue our work to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the sittings of MP Aleksandar Pejcic. I shall also inform that I agree with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, with the exception of the proposing representatives, also called for the meeting to be attended by: Dusan Spasojevic and Igor Jovičić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence Dragan Radulovic, Defence Ministry Secretary General Mitar Kovac, Colonel Goran Zekovic, Slavica Jerkovic, Defence Ministry head and Milorad Peric, Head of the International Military Co-operation Administration at the Ministry of Defence. The 4th session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, all records refer to the 2009 National Assembly of Serbia, the Fifth Session of the First Regular Session, the session of the June 2, 2009, the session of the 7th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the session of the 8th Extraordinary Session, the session of the 9th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the session of the 11th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. Before we move on to a decision on the records, I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's office has established that the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group has sent that board of objections to the minutes of the 4th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2009. At the minutes of the other sittings, none of the MPs submitted any observations in writing. In view of the fact that the observations of the Parliamentary Group do not specifically state which parts of the minutes should be corrected and in which way, in today's session, we will not decide on the minutes, but on the other notes – which are not disputed. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote The minutes of the fifth session of the 2009 National Assembly of the First Regular Session, held on 24, 27, 28 and 29 April 2009. 124 MPs have been made known. I find that the National Assembly adopted the Fifth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. I put to the vote the minutes of the sixth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly held on 13, 14, 15, 18, 19. 20, 21, 22, 25, 26, 27, 28 and 29 May 2009. 129 of the 132 MPs present have been declared. I find that the minutes of the sixth session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly have been adopted. I am voting on the minutes of the sixth extraordinary session, held on 1, 3rd and 9th June 2009. 122 of 132 MPs present have been declared. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. I am voting on the paper on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in Dan to answer parliamentary questions on the topic in question since 2 June 2009. 125 of the 132 MPs present have been declared. I find that the paper on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in Dan has been adopted to answer parliamentary questions on the topic in question since 2 June 2009. I am voting on the minutes of the 7th extraordinary session, held on 3 and 9 June 2009. The vote was 128, of 132 MPs present. I find that the minutes of the seventh extraordinary session have been adopted. I put to the vote the minutes of the eighth extraordinary session, held on 9, 10, 11, 12, 15, 16, 17, 18, 23 June and 8 July 2009. The vote was 128, of 132 MPs present. I find that the minutes of the eighth extraordinary session have been adopted. I put to the vote the minutes of the 9th extraordinary session, held on 8 July 2009. The vote was 125, out of 132 MPs present. I find that the minutes of the ninth extraordinary session have been adopted. I am voting on the minutes of the 10th Extraordinary Session, held on 8, 13, 15 and 16 July 2009. The vote was 124, out of 132 MPs present. I find that the minutes of the tenth extraordinary session have been adopted. I put to the vote the minutes of the 11th extraordinary session, held on 16, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 July and 31 August 2009. 123 out of 132 present MPs voted in favour. I find that the minutes of the 11th extraordinary session have been adopted. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. The government has proposed that the draft law on military, labour and material obligations be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. Please make a statement. The vote was 128, of 132 MPs present. I find that an emergency procedure has passed the draft of this agenda law. The government proposed putting the Civil Service Act on the agenda after an emergency procedure. I'd like to make a statement about this proposal. The vote was 128, of 132 MPs present. I also find that this point is included in the agenda. The government has proposed putting the draft decision on the adoption of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia on the agenda after an urgent procedure. Please make a statement. The vote was 128, of 132 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an urgent procedure, a proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Defence Strategy of the Republic of Serbia should also be included. Please make a statement. 127, of the 132 MPs present, voted in favour. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision to suspend the court's office, No 118-2049/09, be put on the agenda. The vote was 125, out of 132 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of a co-operation agreement between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETTSAT) and the amendment to the Treaty on Cooperation between the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites and the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Please make a statement. The vote was 40 out of 131 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda. Please state this law. Of the 130 MPs present, 124 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Zarko Korac suggested putting on the agenda the proposal for a declaration on the obligations of the Serbian state to take all measures to protect the rights of victims of war crimes, especially the victims of genocide in Srebrenica. Please make your statement on this proposal. The vote was 21 out of 134 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Confirmation of the Convention on International Exhibitions be put on the agenda. Please plead. Four out of 136 MPs present have been declared. The assembly did not accept this proposal. The Committee on Justice and Administration has proposed that, as an emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision on the termination of the court's office, No 118-2065/09, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. The vote was 128, out of 135 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. National MP Milos Aligrudic has suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine how agencies elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia function. Please make your statement on this proposal. The vote was 12 out of 145 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Justice and Administration has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision on the termination of the judicial office, No 118-2563/09, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 135 MPs present, 127 voted in favour. I find that the Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (a vehicle) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development should be put on the agenda. Please make your statement on this proposal. Seven of the 135 MPs present voted in favour. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Russian Federation on co-operation on imports of irradiated nuclear fuel from the Russian Federation's research reactor. Please plead. One of the 135 MPs present voted for it. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. The vote was 128, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing Serbia's Military Law be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. He voted 121 out of 135 members of parliament. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Two out of 135 MPs voted for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the validation of the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, which regulates the EIB's activities in the Republic of Serbia, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. No one voted for it, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law establishing public interest in the expropriation of immovableity in order to build the Master's gas pipeline, MG-11, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. None for, of the 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Italy on a loan for the realisation of the "Small and Medium Enterprises Assistance Loan through the domestic banking sector and support for local development through public utility companies". Please make a statement. Two out of 135 MPs voted for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. The vote was 125, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the regulation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the International Monetary Fund should be put on the agenda of the International Monetary Fund on the basis of the use of means of allotment of special rights to draw the approved resolutions of the Board of Governors No. 64-3 and no. 52-4. Please make a statement. The vote was 124, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Five of the 135 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee for Justice and Administration has proposed, pursuant to Article 165(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to put on the agenda, by an urgent procedure, a proposal for candidates to elect a member of the first session of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 1 October 2009. Please make a statement. One of the 135 MPs voted for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee for Justice and Administration has proposed, pursuant to Article 165(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to put, by emergency procedure, on the agenda a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 October 2009. Please make a statement. No one voted for it, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The SRS parliamentary group submitted a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia board and proposed that it be taken by emergency procedure. However, by way of provision of Article 42(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been established that the National Assembly decides on the resolution and selection of a new member of the Committee at the first next session following the submission of a proposal from the Parliamentary Group, so there is no need to make a special statement on this proposal, as it is included in the draft agenda of this session, in the letter of the Rules of Procedure itself. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, pursuant to Article 90 paragraph 3 and Article 142(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: 1) a joint single search be carried out on: – Proposal for a Decision adopting the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia and – Proposal for a Decision adopting the Strategy for the Defence of the Republic of Serbia; 2) a common principle search on: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on the Law on Serbia, – Proposal for a Law on Military, Labour and Material Obligation, Proposal for a Law on Civil Service, – Proposal for a Law on the application of the Army of Serbia and other powers of defence in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia and – Proposal for a Law on the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency; 3) a Common Single Search on: – Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the Council of the Council of the Republic of Law to the Law, – List of a Member of the Council of the Republic of the Republic of the European Broadcasting Agency, – Proposal for a Member of the Republic of the European Broadcasting Agency for a decision on a decision on a decision on a decision on a decision on a decision on a decision of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Court of the European Parliament. Does MP Vlatko Ratkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. This proposal was voted by 128, out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We move to the agenda of the session in general. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. 127 MPs, out of 134 present MPs, were declared to this agenda. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a decision on the adoption of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia; 2. Proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Strategy for the Defence of the Republic of Serbia; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act; 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Serbian Army; 5. Proposal for a law on military, labour and material obligations; 6. Proposal for a Civil Service Act; 7. Proposal for a law on the use of the Serbian Army and other forces in multinational operations outside the border of the Republic of Serbia; 8. Proposal for a Law on the Features of the Republic of Serbia; 9. Proposal for a law on diaspora and Serbs in the region; 10. Proposal for a decision on the selection of the Council of the Republic postal service agency; 11. List of candidates for a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency; 12. Proposals for a decision to suspend the court's duty; 13. Proposal for a selection of an election member of the first composition of the High Council of Judiciary of the Order of Lawyers; 14. Proposal to elect an election member of the first assembly of the State Council of Prosecutors of the Order of Lawyers; 15. Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 16. Proposal for a law on the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency; 17. Proposal for a Law on the regulation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the International Monetary Fund on the basis of the use of means of allocation of special rights to draw-backs approved by the Resolutions of the Board of Governors No. 64-3 and no. 52-4. We're going to work on a set agenda. I ask the service to prepare the agenda and deliver it. Also, please invite the proposing agenda points to participate in the work. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on the proposals for acts under points 1 and 2 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 163(3), Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs of MPs, meaning that: MEP Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; MEP group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; DSS-Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes 12 seconds; MP group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MEP group SPS-JS – 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. Members of the Parliament, if you have not already done this, please submit your application for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to be represented on these agenda points: MP Dusan Bajatovic, MP of the Socialist Party of Serbia – Unity Serbia, MP Konstantin Arsenović, MP of the United Pensioners Party, MP Vlajko Senic's Parliament group G17 plus; and I will inform you later. In accordance with Article 142(2) and Article 163(2) and paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search. We move to the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision to adopt the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia and a proposal for a decision to adopt the Strategy for Defence of the Republic of Serbia (Gordana Pop – Lazic: By Business. Here you go, Mr. Minister. According to the Rules of Procedure? You didn't sign up. Would you like to sign up? You're not here. Please, you must have your card again. Mrs. Pop – Lazic advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure and has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27029	I signed up a long time ago for a word, but obviously something about these cards is wrong. That time works, time doesn't work. I wanted, before you said so, and how long it takes for the debate to take, in these two points of the agenda, which we consider extremely important, to propose, in accordance with Article 94(3), on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, and I believe that other parliamentary groups will support it, that the time of the debate be double the size of the debate, that is, instead of five hours of discussing it for ten hours. You will allow, it is about adopting the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia and the Defence Strategy of the Republic of Serbia, which is a topic which, regardless of the merger of the debate, deserves attention and I believe that many MPs, of us here 250, would like to speak on the subject, because the public is interested in this topic. That's why I don't think there's any need for us to rush, that's the position of the SRS, and that the parliamentary majority should show enough understanding for this issue to be dealt with in particular, in this way I suggest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27030	Mrs. Pop – Lazic, I'm sorry I can't put this proposal to the vote. He's just not on time, with a delay he's arrived. I ask the representative of the motionor, Mr. Dragan Sutanovac, to address us. Here, you have a word. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27031	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs... . I have the utmost pleasure to... [[from the O.R.: You can't hear.]] I'll make it louder. Don't worry. [[from the hall: Can't be heard, sit down.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27032	Mr. Minister, I think you have well-intentioned suggestions, you'll hear better, if you don't mind, that you have to stand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27033	I'm sorry, but I think this is a matter of personal education and I'm going to say standing in the Parliament of Serbia as long as I have the opportunity to speak in Parliament, don't mind me. Can I possibly speak from this place... The minister's coming out for a pay phone. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, really as long as I have the opportunity to speak in this House, I will speak out of respect for this House and out of respect for the MPs. Don't mind me saying that. Today, we have, among other things, two strategies, a National Security Strategy and a Strategy for the Defence of the Republic of Serbia, as two very important strategic documents concerning the security of our Republic. I will remind you that we had once in this parliament, when it was the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, the possibility of adopting a strategy for the defence of the state community. But we have never had the National Security Strategy as an independent and independent state before. These are documents that are first adopted at the republican level in this House. During the development of these documents, we managed the need to protect the vital national interests of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens in the area of security and defence, and absolutely all the resolutions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the security structures that exist at the level of the Republic, as well as a large number of non-governmental sector members, participated in the development of these documents. You know that they have been in Serbia's Parliament for a long time and have been subject to a big public debate. Given the need for the security and defence area in the Republic of Serbia to be done in a doctrinal, organisational and functional manner, I am convinced that this is one of the most significant steps in this direction. In addition to the Strategic Defence Review, which has already been adopted as a document by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this is practically a strategically defined absolute segment of defence and security in our Republic. Let me introduce you to the basic definitions contained in the strategic documents. The National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia, as the most important strategic document in the area of national security, sets out the fundamentals of security policy in the protection of the national interests of the Republic of Serbia, the protection of the national identities of its citizens, the development of democratic processes in society and the rule of law, respect for human and minority rights, economic, technological and cultural progress, the protection of life and the health of the population, the protection and conservation of the environment, as well as other potentials and resources of the Republic of Serbia. Modern security challenges, risks and threats exceed national borders, conditioning that modern countries achieve their security through international co-operation, building a common security and stable environment. For all European countries in the transition, membership in European and other international structures is a confirmation of political and economic, and it is freely said, and of civilization maturity. The Republic of Serbia as a country with a long democratic tradition cannot and will not remain isolated from integration processes in the region, Europe and the world. The national interest of the Republic of Serbia is active participation in the functioning of international organisations and institutions, because without international co-operation in a world where security is indivisible, there is no economic, social and cultural progress. By joining the European and other international structures, the Republic of Serbia is becoming an active partner in creating a modern security policy and strengthening regional and international security. With active participation in maintaining regional stability, the Republic of Serbia simultaneously contributes to creating the necessary environment to strengthen its own security and a favourable security environment. Regional and local conflicts and differences in the degree of economic and cultural development, poverty and social threat, ethnic and religious extremism, terrorism, organised crime, illegal emigration, as well as other challenges, risks and threats are increasingly endangering the security of individual countries and the entire region. The unilateral and illegal declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija is the cornerstone of the security threat facing the Republic of Serbia today. The security situation in the AP Kosovo and Metohija territory is burdened with ethnically motivated acts of violence that contribute to the creation of uncertainty, fear, and a large amount of organised crime. The threat of human rights, the expansion of organised crime, the usurpation and destruction of private property and cultural and historical heritage, the denial of freedom of movement, as well as the difficult process of returning exiled and internally displaced persons, not only endanger the security of the Republic of Serbia, but the security of the entire region and beyond. At the same time, the Republic of Serbia, as well as other countries of the region, faces the threat of terrorism, organised crime, corruption, illegal drug trafficking, human trafficking, and financial and high-tech crime. I would especially like to stress that this strategic document, for the first time, clearly defines the system of national security as an integral continent involving all elements of society in order to fully protect the national interests of the Republic of Serbia, which actively contributes to the improvement of regional and global security. Improving the security of citizens, society and state, strengthening institutions, national security, as well as an adequate solution to risk and security threats, are the priority objective of the national security policy of the Republic of Serbia. Making decisions to adopt a national security strategy gives a strong incentive of strategic importance to the further social development of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to strengthen its international position through active participation in modern integration flows, while at the same time becoming a significant factor in maintaining and strengthening regional and global co-operation. The defence strategy of the Republic of Serbia is a basic strategic document containing general definitions on how to achieve the defence and engagement of the defence system in the protection of the defence interests of the Republic of Serbia. This strategic document shows the commitment of the Republic of Serbia to build and strengthen its own capacities and defence capabilities, as well as to work jointly with other countries through integration of both European and other international security and defence structures with a view to strengthening national, regional and global security. The defence of the Republic of Serbia is based on integrated engagement of defence entities and defence potentials, with the strengthening of activities in the further transformation of the defence system, modernisation and professionalisation of the Serbian Army, strengthening its operational and functional capacity, as well as further development of the defence system institutions, with the task of adequately responding to all modern military and non-war challenges, risks and threats. The changed character of contemporary challenges, risks and threats of security and defence has conditioned a new social position and the role of the Serbian Army as a key bearer of the defence interests of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to point out that the defence strategy defines the missions of the Serbian Army in such a way that it becomes a significant instrument for the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, by increasingly fulfilling those tasks that contribute to the preservation and construction of peace in the region and the world. Starting with the commitment contained in this strategic document, the Republic of Serbia will engage its defence potential on the basis of the UN Charter, the Constitution and the principles of international law that regulate the use of force by participating in multinational operations, providing support for civil structures in counter-hazarded security threats, as well as preventing and eliminating the consequences of humanitarian disasters, the Republic of Serbia will be a reliable partner in building and preserving peace in the region and the world. Reiterating its readiness to strengthen its own security by engaging in European security and defence policy activities and participating in NATO's Partnership for Peace programme, the Republic of Serbia will contribute to peace and stability in the region, strengthening good neighbourly relations and resolving all issues peacefully. The Republic of Serbia is determined to build and strengthen the mechanisms of democratic and civilian control of the Serbian Army, as the basic assumption of a democratically developed society, making the Serbian Army and the defence system a basis for the overall democratic development of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, I want to point out once again the importance and necessity of the adoption of these documents, given that these are the documents that are first adopted in this House. We have been led by a policy of opportunity to propose these documents that have been in public debate for several months and in Parliament, and we expect to have a lively debate here, given that we have received a large number of amendments, both on these strategies and on the laws that follow us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27034	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Representatives at this point are mandated: Serbia-Božidar Delic for the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica – Dragan Šormaz and the SRS-Boris Aleksic Group. Does the Defense and Security Committee's office want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Dusan Bajatovic signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27035	It's hard to separate here, no matter what we've combined the agenda points, the whole story needs to be viewed as one set of military laws and I really have to say, I've been asking a little bit of questions in professional services, this is one of the biggest sets of laws that lately, I suppose, even since the war came to the Assembly. Of course, like all legal proposals, there are good sides, there are some minor shortcomings. I'm not saying this because of television, but because of us, I'm going to pay attention to a few things. First of all, it should be understood that the adoption of this set of laws solves a lot of problems in the functioning of both the military and other security structures, because only as a consequence of these legal solutions, or decisions, can another sublegal act be made in a clear way, in line with the need to reorganise, reform and democratisation and the military and security services, but not in order to degrade something but to make these necessary services, therefore, the military and defence systems in general, and the Military Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency, make them ready and capable of all of those challenges ahead of us. In this sense, we should welcome the adoption of this set of legal solutions, which I would point to, that's the first thing we should consider when we talk about these legal solutions. The other thing to notice when these laws, or these decisions, are at stake, is that what finally seems to me, in the right way, is about new security challenges and, in a new way, sets up a possible strategy for both national security and national security and defence law. Today, we can't talk about patriotism or the defence of the state being brought down to nothing but a rifle, we're finally talking about some legal issues like economic strengthening, such as the unity of the state, the defence of its territorial integrity, etc. There are new challenges, which I think is important to consider in particular. First of all, I like the way interventionism is treated. I'm glad that in one official state document we can say that there is a question of interventionism. We felt that question well on our skin during NATO aggression. We could have had examples of interventionism in Iraq. What I also like here, we're talking about the consequences of possible interventionism. The second thing to pay attention to is the assessment of our country's degree of threat from possible military intervention. Of course, membership or at least co-operation with collective security systems, which are mentioned here, reduces that degree of risk, but it is clearly underlined, and that is what is well done here, that the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, that one part of our territory, simply, is not under our control, although under UN jurisdiction, can also represent military and security, and as I understand in some subtext and somewhere between the ranks, even possible military conflict. Here, in some ways, it is suggested that one such danger should be taken into account not only by our country and our armed forces, but also by the EU and other powerful countries of the world, because what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija, we all know what are practically unique political assessments in our country, is a source of lasting danger in this region. The possibility of defence against terrorism is particularly stressed. Also, I don't think that this danger is negligible, especially if there are possible extremist groups based on religious or even national backgrounds, as well as potential separatism opportunities, and here a question is being discussed mainly in Kosovo and Metohija, but I don't think it should be forgotten about possible possible tensions that may occur in the Raska area and possibly in Vojvodina. Of course, the degree of these tensions is not so much that they could be a matter of strategy and defence at this point. It'll be more like a matter of security services, but that's also a matter of attention. In that sense, I can give one political assessment of this document, let's say, we know, there is also an evaluation of this assembly, that Serbia should be militaryly neutral. On the other hand, the question arises: whether and how should we go towards Euro-Atlantic integration and most of the parties, as far as I know, raise the issue as a referendum issue. How do I personally view this document? In it, at last, these first two points of the agenda, so, strategy and defence and national security, if nothing else, we have at least counted all the open issues and all the challenges to think about. Completely, it seems to me that the authors of this proposal, these two decisions, have come to realize that certain questions in our society are completely open. Perhaps I or someone else on the other hand would disagree on every sentence, when it comes to the assessment of Kosovo and Metohija. We probably would not agree on Euro-Atlantic integration, but all the challenges are numbered, and those issues that are not possible, in a political sense, to close in this assembly, are possible to form some majority or minority, but it is not possible to ensure unity on these issues. That's why we say it's a referendum question. These issues have necessarily remained open in this document. And I think that those who wrote this document had in mind both the current relations and the political elite of Serbia, all the current pressures we suffer from the international community, both the NATO countries, the EU countries, and the insistence and Russia, or perhaps some other countries that they want, all in some way, to help us. We simply left those questions open at this point. I think it's a good thing it's done that way, because we've counted all the challenges, given some clear answers, and those issues that I think are political issues, and surely the issue of military neutrality and political issues, as well as the issue of security, such as the question of potential Eurointegration, whose opponent I am, is also an open political issue. But at least it was found in this document. In that sense, in terms of defining political issues, I think this document can be, as it is asked, acceptable. You can also conclude that the SPS - JS Group, such two documents, will support it. Of course, you can talk about one cell of the picture, some solutions can be talked about individually, but I think for one political assessment and for insight into the quality of this document, too, it is necessary to point out that there has been enough time for a public debate, according to us. What I want to express my satisfaction with is that it wasn't just military structures, because here it's a law which, in the difolt, is mostly, to say, other countries, above all, in the West -- it's not a question of military structures, but how much our colleagues have informed us, therefore, the present minister with all his associates, in writing these documents, in their order and preparation, was involved both academic public and other NGOs. Here we come to the third point of the whole story. I think that this set of laws, including these two decisions, raises the issue of civilian control, control and control over the military and the security services and necessary co-ordination and co-ordination, from the president of the state, as Chief Commander, General Staff, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and all those people who need to participate in national security issues, decision-making on these issues and making adequate solutions. As far as this opening part is concerned, I would have stopped there. The first two decisions have sufficient quality in themselves, with all the outstanding issues left in them, to be acceptable at this point, at this stage and political relations and strategic and strategic needs of the Republic of Serbia. In this context, the promoters can expect the support of the SPS – JS. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27036	Thank you, Mr. Bayatovic. The word is Mr. Konstantin Arsenović. Just sign in, please. Your login has been deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27037	Dear Presidency, Mr Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, we have before us the proposals for a decision on the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy. It is very important documents for defining the rights and responsibilities of all of our society's entities and for building its own security and defence system of the Republic of Serbia. In front of the PUPS, the United Pensioners of Serbia, I will try to give our vision of these documents. We would like to point primarily well-intentionedly to some ambiguities, failures and weaknesses, and thus make our contribution, possibly through the adoption of the amendments that we have submitted to their improvement. Before I move on to these documents, I would like to present to this audience and the Serbian public a great dissatisfaction with the pension population, to be shown discrimination against the elderly by an MP in this House. I won't mention his name. He'll identify himself, and I have video footage and I can give it to anyone. For the time being, the unnamed gentleman, confidently in free form, pointed out the following: that PUPS is unconstitutional and should not exist, because when a person turns 65, she should not do anything, she should walk her grandchildren, play chess and so on, and not rule this country – and that they still have a vice president of the government; because nature did her own, the brain cells died, had the same awareness and knowledge as in forty years, and this party should not exist. Is there a need to comment on such an offensive and humiliating statement, it is almost impossible for such an opinion to follow a logical conclusion on further measures towards pensioners to be taken? Whether that attitude towards pensioners is right and the court is told, I leave you and the general public to judge for themselves. I simply cannot and will not believe that such an opinion and attitude has its own party, but I ask this MP and his party, if he shares such an opinion, that in all the subsequent campaigns they do not call on the pensioners to vote for them at all, because what they need is the voices of those people who are "outcast and unable to reason" as they see it. So much for that. Now I'm moving on to the topic we're here for. I've already said that PUPS wants to make its constructive contribution, so that these documents are defined as best possible. Commendation and objections are not meant to spend our time, on the contrary, we believe that our well-intentioned criticism of all these documents can be accepted from the point of view of science and practice, and we have sought to eliminate our subjectivism, including vanity, and to put the problem at the heart of current, world and internal, events and problems. As far as methodological access is concerned, we don't have any major objections here. We believe that they are well placed, except that some areas enjoyed more attention, but as shown, they can also serve further work. However, we have some observations and questions that should be answered. We are aware that the authors, or the author, of these documents faced a complex problem and many dilemmas that they themselves had or could not answer. In my opinion, what are these dilemmas? First, it's a question of Kosovo and Metohija. Practically, 15% of Serbia's territory has been kidnapped for an indefinite and long period. Serbia cannot give up that territory and we do not have the right answer to how to resolve it, especially if Kosovo-the republic, has recognised many states. Secondly, Serbia, at least a large part of the opposition and its positions and therefore citizens want to join the EU, which, however, does everything to mark the independence of Cosmeta and a large number of its members have also recognised Kosovo's independence. We want to go to Europe, but it is difficult to accept us, so it is "not to be angry". Third, border issues with Croatia and BiH are still open. It is true that the global system of the 21st century is projecting states with loose borders, but we have to define the limits first, and then loosen them. The fourth, the country's economic situation, especially the economy, is in a catastrophic situation. Our economic system can't be a safe base, at least for the present, to strengthen our security. If, in doing so, he has in mind what condition and what problems are present in private capital, then the additional problem is complicated. We also have many other unresolved internal issues. Fifthly, they wanted to admit it to me or not, but the fact is, in our country, it's like there's no more secrets. Foreign intelligence services through various consultants, consultants, are present in all structures, affecting many events and decision-making in our country. Foreign intelligence is all familiar. What it means for the safety of a country is too much to comment on. Principlely, without solving these problems, there is no way of talking about the national security strategy and the defence strategy, at least not to the extent of objective and content approach to defining these documents. What are our principled remarks I will try to list with minimal comment, given the time available. First, let me list some common remarks and suggestions on these two documents. Not all possible aspects of jeopardizing our country's national security have been fully considered, and thus give an answer to opposition. I would remind you that the aggression against Serbia doesn't have to be carried out only by war. War is the most difficult form of aggression, but not the only one. The claims by some of our ministers that Serbia will no longer war or that there is a low probability, as far as I can tell, are irresponsible. No one in their right mind wants war, but the deception that he won't be leads us to the opposite, to the relaxation and unpreparedness of the state to stand up to anyone. If the claim that war will not be true, then the question arises – why do we need an army, then we need to disband it immediately. But I wonder, what if there is one, and if others impose it on us, as it has been seen through history, as it has always been? For this variant, we as a society must organize and prepare ourselves. Secondly, there is the impression that the documents were written by one author and I have no impression that all the institutions and all of Serbian knowledge and skills were involved in writing this document. Third, the adopted policy on Serbia's military neutrality must have been a key element in defining positions in both documents. It's not respected, at least not in general. If the holders of this document had a different attitude, then they had to make it clear and demand discussion and eventual adoption of such an attitude. Fourthly, the documents are written in a specific way, and there's an impression that we wanted to go to the West, and there's a thread of our inability to stand up to anyone and there's no saving us if we don't join NATO. I'm not for putting a finger in anyone's eye, especially the one we're supposed to be working with tomorrow, but I'm not even into capitulation in advance. We need to see the problem realistically, tell the truth, and set guidelines. Otherwise, there's nothing from our national security or they'll be on their nods. A comment on the National Security Strategy. With regard to the security environment, the dangers and conditions in the global and regional environment are minimised, the role and danger of the impact of NATO enlargement and the insistence on setting up missile bases and shields towards the Russian Federation are ignored. The latest US move, however, is now easing this problem. Be assured, he remains, only a matter of method and time of implementation. Aren't the problems with Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran, Korea, including Cosmeta sufficient indicators of democracy? The role of Russia, China and other countries and their impact on the global environment is not being analysed at all. This is contrary to the views expressed by even the president of our country, Mr Tadic, who speaks of four pillars on which Serbia must rely and in this I personally support it. Furthermore, it is said that no country is able to solve the problem of preserving and strengthening its national security and giving messages, among the lines -- Serbia's rescue is in the association of national security forces, in other words in NATO. I must admit that I learned from this document that there are European defence forces. They're unknown to me, so it would be interesting to know their structure, where they're located, and who's in charge of them. The claim that armed aggression against the Republic of Serbia is significantly reduced and that it can arise as a result of a global or regional conflict is not based on objective assumptions, and when it comes to challenges, threats and risks to Serbia's security, especially when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, it is not only possible to talk about ethnically motivated violence in Cosmet, but rather to call the problem a real name, i.e. it should be stressed that terrorism is being supported from the outside in Kosovo. When it comes to Cosmet, the role of a foreign factor is ignored, especially given that a NATO base has been built in Kosovo, as one of the supporters of NATO forces, as well as Albanian armed and terrorist formations. In a chapter defining the place and role of economic policy, a set of desires has been shown towards creating prosperity. And, that's okay. And what our present is, that's not a word. How does the current situation affect Serbia's security? A complex economic and social situation in the country, caused by the problems of social transformation, has led to a deep distribution of the population in all areas of life: economic, political, educational, health, cultural, etc. The economy, especially production capacity, is on its knees, and cannot be one of the most important security bases. There is great dissatisfaction, division, violence, crime and corruption. More Greek philosophers warned that the poverty of the people led to the emergence of enemy elements in their own people. Such dissatisfactions directly endanger national security. They don't consider themselves part of the whole, and they'll be working on a national security breach. If this adds to the activity of a foreign factor and various stories that out of our borders there is honey and milk, the maltenes don't even have to work, then this question deserves a serious analysis and a definition of the objectively possible. Everyone knows that a stable and developed economic system is the basis for all other actions, including security, but it is the essence of giving an answer – how to achieve national security in conditions that are today and which will not change significantly, at least for the next ten years. Here a special place deserves an answer to the question of how to hire individual economic entities whose owners are foreigners, on defence tasks, especially in the event of a war or an emergency? Speaking of the defence policy in the first position, it is noted that it is based on an integrated and multilateral approach to Serbia's defence and security. I have to admit, I don't understand this concept, or how it's going to be realized. It also speaks of defence policy objectives, an effective system of building Serbia's Army, to be able, among other things, to engage in multinational operations, but there is no attitude that Serbia will wage if imposed on it, for which the Serbian Army's defence goals must be trained and so on. It is surprising how important it is in the National Security Strategy to be attached to the private security that employs about 60,000 people. The number is impressive. This is a very interesting problem from the aspect of the analysis, as well as the organization, which is their structure, to which they serve, whose interests they will protect, defend, etc. When it comes to the preparation of the territory and training of the population, the creation of material reserves in finished products and repromation, the National Security Strategy is not given guidance, nor is it one of the essential factors of national security. I know from experience that it is, that without the material reserves of any kind, there is no defense or security of the state. When it comes to the Defence Strategy, let me say, similar objections have also been made to the National Security Strategy, for the simple reason it is written on the basic definitions of the National Security Strategy. However, I still think that the Defence Strategy is more comprehensively well-conceived and in its specifics more precise and clear. When it comes to content itself, I believe that Serbia cannot build its defence policy on the basis of co-operation with democratic and peaceful states, but with allies and friendly states. In particular, it is an unacceptable position in the chapter – the basic objectives and tasks of defence, where it is noted that it is one of the basic objectives of integration into European and other international security structures. Cooperation yes, and integration must, at least for now, be left for another time. In any case, there is a gap in the defence strategy regarding the role of the interior ministry forces in the defence of the country in the conditions of external aggression, as well as places and roles of civil protection, in particular as regards the jurisdiction and their organisation and engagement. The National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy are, as I said, very important documents for the country's overall security, primarily on the plan of organising and preparing the defence. The United Pensioners Party has given some criticism, but not by entering the good side. There's a lot of good sides to the defense. I was talking about the bad side. We've made amendments. By adopting the proposed amendments, we would contribute to improving the basic provisions and definitions. Realising that it is documents that have to be constantly upgraded and that world processes are increasingly dynamic, that new challenges are growing, which means that in new situations, both political attitudes and concepts of defence of each country must be changed and adapted, and that our views will also have to be adapted and upgraded. What I think is important, and I want to say in the end, is that we must not grumble in front of dangers and risks, nor be courteous to anyone, but we must be objective and realistic in our assessment of where we are and what we should do within the limits of our possibilities. In any case, the proposed documents, despite the shortcomings, ensure that every entity in this society sees its role in this very important area and defines its development strategies, taking into account the interests of security and defence of the Republic of Serbia and that the issue of the national security of the Republic of Serbia is being put in place by approximately the needs and possibilities of the United Pensioners of Serbia and will therefore support these two documents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27038	Thank you. Mr. Aligrudic, replica. I assume you've identified yourself in the gentleman's statement... What? (Employee Milos Aligrudic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27039	Yes, I have to respond formally. In Article 195. The Rules of Procedure provide that the right and the duty to represent the Government in the National Assembly shall be given to the Prime Minister, in position 1. Paragraph 2 states that the government determines the members of the government who represent it on certain issues on the agenda at the assembly session, or at its committee's session. We have received a paper stating that this debate and the next set of laws are authorised by the Government representative Dr Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Tourism, which I believe is a mistake, because it is not normal for the Minister of Trade and Tourism to represent the Government, although it is possible, for such a set of laws and for such an important debate on the Strategy of Defence and Security. By believing that it's a mistake and that it can be removed, that's why I point you to that mistake, and I suggest that the session continue normally, as it has been until now, I hope that this will be the only interruption of the session, this is my remark, and that in the meantime the corrections will be obtained... ... Because I find this impossible, right. So, to obtain the correction of this notice, which would cost the government to determine Dragan Sutanovac, the defence minister, to be the government's authorised representative. It just has to be done. Well, if it's not possible right now, then make sure it's in the afternoon part of the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27040	Thank you. We have a member of the government, so I'm going to ask him to explain it to us. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27041	Just a brief clarification. The members of the Defense and Security Committee know what this is about. Simply, several months ago, we planned for tomorrow a major military exercise that will be on the Cave, and as host of this exercise, I am obliged to be there tomorrow, so here, in this paper, it says – Dr Slobodan Milosavljevic is also determined. This "I" means tomorrow morning, and in a certain time when I'm not able to. Is she all right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27042	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is Mr. Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27043	Madam President, Mr Minister, I would like to talk about all the points in the sphere of defence and the military, because these are points that are connected in every respect and not to report tomorrow to this other continent, I would like to say that MPs of the Minority Group and SVM will vote in favour of all these proposed laws and strategies. We will vote for both strategies and six draft laws. We couldn't even handle the amendment. We believe that one of the greatest virtues of the proposed strategies is that it does not say that Serbia is a military neutral state. We are pleased that the sentence has been left out of these strategies, because we believe that regardless of what is still in force for the December 2007 Parliament's decision, that Serbia is a military neutral state, that decision is maximumly wrong for the Republic of Serbia and for all its citizens. On the other hand, the SVM advocates the professionalisation of the Republic of Serbia's Army and we hope that these proposed laws will only be applied in an unaltered form for a year or two, and that we will have very soon to amend most of these laws, given that the professional Serbian Army, according to our hopes, will be introduced within, say, two years. We know that it was planned to do this by the end of 2010, but we have an understanding because it's not simple, first of all, because of the economic situation it's not possible to do it by the end of next year, but it would be good to do it, let's say, for the next two years. We think that's for sure real. As far as the Defence Strategy is concerned, we believe that it is good that among the basic objectives it states that it is integration into European and other international security structures and participation in NATO's Partnership for Peace programme. We also look forward to the fact that, among the defence policy tasks, it is a transformation and professionalisation of Serbia's military, engagement in NATO's Partnership for Peace programme and achieving interoperability with the state defence systems involved in NATO's Partnership for Peace programme. I don't expect Mr. Minister to answer any questions that I'm going to ask, or any dilemmas, because I know about what the answers would be. In recent days, we have read the statements of Mr. Minister in various daily newspapers, Sundays, etc., but I believe that the Serbian Parliament is an institution where we should finally start a parliamentary discussion, a debate, about the necessity of joining the Republic of Serbia in NATO, because we believe that the time has come when there is no more justification to push our head into the sand and to act as if we are not aware that the interest of the Republic of Serbia and all its citizens is that Serbia is one day becoming a member of the NATO Pact. In December 2007, when we adopted the Law on Defence and the Law on the Army, I asked Mr. Sutanovac what the government's policy was, was it then promoted by the then prime minister of the Republic of Serbia or was it a policy promoted by the second part of the ministers in the then-Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's when I got the answer that Serbia is not ready to join NATO. Of course, in 2007, she wasn't ready, she's not ready today, but I'm interested in whether it's even among the priorities of the Republic of Serbia that one day she becomes a full member of the NATO Pact? I also know that citizens of the Republic of Serbia will decide most likely on this issue in the referendum, but I believe that the task of all parliamentary parties, the task of MPs, and above all, government and ministers, to give people real information, to give citizens information on positive and negative issues very important, and whether Serbia should enter the NATO Pact. It is not the task of politicians in Serbia to tell people what they want to hear, but rather the task is for politicians in some way to educate citizens, to point out on some positive sides, in this case, the entry of the Republic of Serbia into the NATO Pact. I said earlier that the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians in December 2007 did not vote for Serbia to become a military neutral state for several reasons. First of all, we believe that serious states make such a decision by amending the Constitution, i.e. by making a new constitution. Military neutrality should be declared by the Constitution of the state, not by one assembly resolution that has no topic at all from the defence or military sphere, but, in our particular case, it was one resolution on Kosovo and the Metohija adopted by the Assembly on 26 December 2007. At that time, three small opposition parties did not vote in favour of one such resolution, and the assembly unfortunately adopted the "Resolution on the Protection of Territorial Integrity, Sovereignity and Constitutional Order of the Republic of Serbia". We did not vote against that resolution because we did not want it to be interpreted as being against the territorial integrity, sovereignty and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. We did not want this to be interpreted on purpose, but we made it very clear in the debate at the time that we were absolutely opposed to the way Serbia declared itself a military neutral state, and on the other hand, we also oppose the decision on military neutrality. Mr. Minister said a few days ago that the dilemma whether Serbia should join NATO or not exists only in public because Belgrade has not yet received an invitation to join the Alliance. Well, Serbia didn't even get an invitation to be a member of the UN, the OSCE, the Council of Europe, the EU, so regardless of the fact, we are members of these international organisations, except the EU, of course, for now, but we have very clear priorities, we have very clear priorities for us to join those international organisations. It would be about as if I were to say that the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians was not a parliamentary party in the 2004-2007 cycle, because we were not invited to participate in Parliament's work. Serbia should show interest in becoming a NATO pact member, and we are aware that Serbia will not enter NATO in the next few years, but should lead a policy in a way that is possible, that, first of all, we should put out the legal force of that Article 6. Resolutions on the protection of territorial integrity, sovereignty and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia to give ourselves the opportunity to become a NATO pact member one day. That, of course, is not in NATO's interest, it is in the interests of Serbia and all its citizens. I know the point of emotion is very easy to explain why there is an anti-Natomic mood, and we believe that the 78 days of Serbia's bombing in 1999 are the darkest days of our recent history, but that is also why it happened. Of course, it is necessary to respect the innocent civilian victims who were then killed in those days, but it may have been possible to save those people's lives. More importantly, no one is talking about Euro-Atlantic integration anymore, it is only about European integration, and I would like someone to tell citizens that no post-communist country, no country from the Eastern bloc of Europe could become an EU member before it joined NATO. I know stories about Austria being a military neutral state, and also an EU member, and Ireland is a military neutral state, and also an EU member, and Finland is a military neutral state, and it is also an EU member. So that's not impossible. But I believe that, unfortunately, Serbia cannot compare itself at any point to these countries. We need to look at what the countries of our region have done, what Romania has done, what Bulgaria has done, what Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland has done, etc., because we know that all these countries have first entered the NATO Pact and have subsequently been admitted into the EU. Of course we know that this is not a formal requirement, that it is not a prerequisite for EU membership, but I think that what no country in our region has managed to do will not succeed either. And the sooner we head to NATO, the sooner we get to the EU. Once again, undermining is not our path to the EU the most important reason why we should become members of the NATO Pact. It is the interest of the Republic of Serbia and of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because NATO is no longer exclusively a military alliance, NATO is also a political alliance, and in addition, from economic aspects and because of security aspects, it is important that Serbia enters NATO. We know that one country of such modest economic possibilities, such as Serbia, cannot be, is not cost-effective, is not cellular, military neutral, and because of the modernisation of our e.g. Air Force would be important if we were a NATO member. On the other hand, one country of such modest economic indicators, such as Serbia, cannot function with as many soldiers as we have. We should have a lot more soldiers if we're a military neutral state, because of the economy, too, it's not possible. On the third hand, NATO is a synonym for security and security. We also think that because of potential investors, it would certainly be important for Serbia to become a NATO pact member. For example, investors from Austria, which is militaryly neutral, are much easier and preferable to invest in one NATO member state. So, we believe that a decision on military neutrality should be put outside the legal force and that it should begin to talk about the necessity of joining the NATO Pact. Since its founding in 1994, the Alliance of Duke Hungarians has advocated Euro-Atlantic integration, we believe it is in the interest of all of our citizens, all of our citizens. NATO is today a 20-member society that shares the same values as the EU, 80% of NATO members are the same countries that are members of the EU. We believe that, in addition to emphasising the emotional components of the government, it should tell people what economic, security and political benefits are, the benefits, from joining the NATO Pact. The task of politicians is not to tell people what they want them to hear, but to tell the truth. I see certain shifts, Mr. Minister, both in your statements and in these strategies, and we hope that there will come a day when the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia will advocate again for Euro-Atlantic integration, and that we will be together soon to run a campaign in which we will show everything, of course, and negative but also positive sides of Serbia's entry into the NATO Pact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27044	Thank you. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27045	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, two important topics are ahead of us. I won't say anything new if I say that unfortunately today the Army is also a victim of politics, as it has been too often in the past. I think the importance of these topics certainly made it necessary here to have the Prime Minister present, and the argument is certainly stronger, given all the problems society has faced over the past few weeks, the problems arising from the violence, which is inextricably linked to the organisation of a security system in our society. We understand why you represent the Defence Strategy, but I think that, despite your best intentions, you cannot cover all the weaknesses that are present in the organisation of our country, which have led you to the position of representing and building a National Security Strategy, which is more complex, broader and comprehensive than the Defence Strategy and despite all your efforts, it would have to commit some other ministries and certainly institutions outside the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I would first like to say a few sentences on the National Security Strategy itself, and then to talk about the National Defence Strategy, namely the Defence Policy and the Four Strategy that you have sent us. As far as the National Security Strategy is concerned, what is problematic for us is part of a strategy dealing with challenges, risks and threats to the security of our society. The problem is we see in the fact that you can only partially respond to the numbered threats, risks and challenges here, and the language that this part of the Strategy has been arranged has no touch points with what the Ministry of Defence's efforts have been so far and with what the Ministry of Defense has done. So, if we are talking about the dangers of armed aggression, then it is clear that no one can adopt a national security strategy, absolutely exclude the possibility of an armed conflict – in itself, it is certainly one such danger place in the national security strategy. I think it is a completely politically unsustainable finding that Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence was the biggest threat to the security of the Republic of Serbia, unsustainable in view of that position, which is also clearly expressed in the National Security Strategy, especially in the Strategy of our defence. If we make our future extremely open to the EU, then we cannot define the EU, which is largely present in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, as the greatest threat to the security of our society. This can be abused and certainly in a policy that is generally irresponsible when it comes to security issues, military relations, police, defenses, will certainly be abused. What we don't understand, and I don't think there's much you can do either, is all that comes from the threats contained in the National Security Strategy, which in itself have nothing to do with the Ministry of Defense. – The issue of organised crime in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is certainly a question that cannot be dealt with solely by the Ministry of Defence, simply, we have institutions that are obliged to work. The issue of fighting corruption is certainly not the priority area of the defence ministry. The problem of economic development of the Republic of Serbia, energy interdependence, unbalanced economic and demographic development, unresolved status and difficult situation of the refugees, the dangers associated with the emergence and spread of infectious diseases in humans and animal diseases, the destructive functioning of certain religious sects and cults on families and our society, all this is too burdensome by one document representing the Ministry of Defence, which, despite its intention to address these problems, cannot do so. What's clear to anyone who's been following this topic since the beginning of this assembly debate is the fact that you did this, because nobody else wanted to do this, or worse still, there was no telling who had to do the National Security Strategy. And that should be said, not for anyone to be accused, but for us to be able to point out one systemic flaw, which must be removed in the future, because it is obvious that it is not a well-organised state in which the Ministry of Defence responds to a whole series of problems covered by this strategy. If you are dealing with issues of a problem that is accompanied by unbalanced economic development, contagion, infectious diseases, refugee status and exiled persons, the fight against corruption and crime, you will not be effective in what your primary obligations are. And your primary obligations are the fight against illicit arms trafficking, your primary obligations are the preservation of security, which stem from the role that the military can play, your primary obligations are defined, among other things, and the laws we're going to discuss here, intelligence agencies, VBA, you don't have time and you can't deal with the whole series of problems that are listed in this strategy. We want to get an answer to the question at this point – what will the state do to remove this unnecessary burden from the military in the future, because it is not the military's job? And so we come to the field of the defence strategy. Our society has never had a problem with the military as an institution, but it has been too often a problem with an army that's been doing jobs in normal societies that the military doesn't do. The military has been politically abused in the past. If we have one such history, then we must very clearly remove that kind of problem from our country's agenda. It is not you who need to answer whether Serbia wants NATO or not. Nowhere on this matter is the defence minister or the chief of staff. It's an expression of political will that speaks of long-term definition, of a vision of a state, of a society. Here we heard a few MPs talking about it, quite openly. The strategy that bypasses Serbia's clear definition of NATO's pact is, in fact, a strategy that speaks of serious political weaknesses. It doesn't have much to do with your ministry directly, but it certainly has to do with the government. A delegation from Parliament from the United States recently returned. Our member of the delegation in contact with the representatives of the Department of Defence of the Pentagon, the State Department, the National Guard of Ohio, heard that the United States in the field of military co-operation had a very good relationship with our Ministry of Defence and with our Army, that the problems of the past had been overcome, that this was not done by bypassing some difficult issues, but by adequately answering them. If our armies can cooperate in an adequate way, what is the problem and where is the problem of our policy's inability to follow one such course? In 2007, we made a political decision, when we incorporated a stance on Serbia's military neutrality by satisfying a political fatalism of the then ruling coalition in the Kosovo and Metohija Resolution. We as politicians must lead a rational and reasonable policy. It wasn't a rational and reasonable decision. If we go through silence today, then it certainly announces some change in the future, but at the same time it talks about the problems and weaknesses that exist in this society and that we cannot ignore, because nothing in that case will guarantee us that instead of coming to new positions we will actually stay somewhere halfway or even go back. And it's a par excellency political issue. That is why we have written an amendment to this strategy and the government's relationship to the amendment will also depend on the LDP's attitude towards the Strategy. We want the National Defence Strategy to make it very clear that Serbia's explicit commitment to full membership in the NATO Pact is put in place. We believe that this is very important, although we know how much prejudice stands in the way of the realization of such a political commitment. But we must make such a decision today, not only because all the countries that are now full of EU members, before that membership, the last 15 or 20 years have to be members of the NATO Pact, but because the process of security of European integration will make our country a stronger and more efficient process of European integration, will shorten the period, will reduce some dilemmas. I guess after 20 or 30 years of wandering, we can finally make some political decisions that will speed up the processes in our society. We have missed too much time to be able to go over the whims of some individuals today who, with two, three or five MPs, are blackmailing power in key political decisions made at these moments. Those who openly advocate Serbia's European integration today must be willing to do everything possible to make them quick and efficient, among other things, and to do what the military itself is willing to do, which is to fit into a well-conceived system of international security in the area of Europe. No country in our environment today follows a political course that follows Serbia. Bosnia and Herzegovina has submitted an accreditation and application for membership in the NATO Pact. Macedonia has a political problem with Greece, because if it did not exist, today it would be in the status of Albania and Croatia -- a full member. Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, Greece, all countries in our environment have already made those decisions. There is a wrong impression here that we are not making this decision because we are under the influence of the Russian Federation, but if the Russian Federation has nothing against Serbia's membership in the EU, then it can have nothing against our intention to get to that end as soon as possible, and in particular that within the EU or NATO alliance we can respond to those problems that we ourselves have not been able to respond to politically. Because I don't think guns should speak for politicians, so because we weren't able to answer, we were getting into trouble both ourselves and everyone else around us. The issue of Kosovo is very important, but by giving a political response to the problem of Serbia and NATO's relations, I think that solutions can be made that would make the Serbians' better quality life in Kosovo open a better perspective of the relations between the Serb and Albanian communities in Kosovo, both Belgrade and Pristina. Is that what the Department of Defense wants? Well, according to everything the Department of Defense has done in the last few years, it's clear that not only does he want to, but he does something like that. Is that what the government wants? The government doesn't have the strength to tell us she's up to something like that. Then let the government seek support here in Parliament for such a decision and that support we are ready to give, not only support that would mean voting for the Defence Strategy, in which Serbia is defined for full membership in the NATO Pact, but also support that would oblige us to explain to our society why it is in its interest, although today expectations are majority on the other side. And in particular, we condemn this calculator policy which would bring an answer to such a difficult question from the leaders to society. Then we don't need a government and we don't need a Parliament, if you all agree to the fact that this issue will be resolved in a referendum. Prior to that, society must be able to reason on the gravity of the decision it makes, free from emotion, and no society, especially ours, after everything that has been exposed, can make a decision in such a way. That is why it is our political obligation, to introduce Serbia into the EU as quickly as we can, among other things, through full partnership and membership in the NATO Alliance, international security organisations that are mentioned, our participation in international missions, absolute understanding, great support for such a thing. Those who condemn this are thinking about the peace that is in the former Yugoslavia's space, unfortunately, and too often, guaranteed by international forces, and our obligation to give this peace to someone else on the second space of the planet, if we have the strength, and we have the obligation to do so, which practically obliges us to have a different relationship with the UN Mission in Afghanistan and to be prepared to talk about it here in Parliament, first, openly, and then in every other place where it is being arbitrationd and decided today. Another very important topic we want to discuss, within the framework of the National Defence Strategy, is the role of society in achieving this strategy. The role of other institutions, it can't be just a task of the Ministry of Defence. Of course it is the first job of the defence ministry, but as it cannot solve the problem of violence in Serbia, the Ministry of Defence can not be successful in professionalising the military unless it has social support for such a thing. And social support stems from a new kind of ambition of our society, to work more to make it more. Now we're in a mess that tightens the belt to the limit of endurance. How are we going to achieve this strategy if we all share and follow the logic by which we give up dinner first, then lunch, and then bring down breakfast on one spoon? This should end and say that an effective strategy of defence of the Republic of Serbia costs and that it obliges us to create money that will be financed, that professionalisation of the military costs and that it obliges us to create money that a professional soldier will be paid for, that our sons will sit with us, in their families, be educated and do the jobs they want to do, if they have already decided to go the other way from the one on which the officer act ends, and that is what needs to be talked about today. During the period of savings and recession on this, we must not save even to deprive ourselves of this, because democratic Serbia cannot become sure enough if its institutions are not democraticised and modernised, and I think that the empty benches and absence of other ministers clearly point to one problematic position, that this issue is your personal problem or the problem of several generals from the ministry itself, and something like that is not true. Yesterday we witnessed a five-year anniversary of the murder of two guards in Topcider. It's not just the military, but it's also burdening the Army today. The institutions that exist in this country must give effective answers to this question and to those issues that are being asked by the military on a daily basis, which, as a rule, binds us here in Parliament, and therefore there is great respect in the Assembly for these families, condemnation for those who have abused this tragedy and the clear obligation of the Serbian Parliament to insist on the full truth. Because it's full of truth in the interest of these families, it's the least we can do for them, and then in the interest of our army that can't be a front for what she was in the past when she was abused. It is clear everything the LDP thinks – we support security reforms, but we have no understanding of the political weaknesses and calculations we recognize here through the government's unpreparedness to do what the Ministry has already done, that is, to go openly, through integration, into NATO alliance and thus make our European future quick and realistic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27046	Thank you. The word has a Mr. Minister. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27047	I would use the opportunity to answer a few questions and explain some things, because it seems to me that we're going in the wrong direction, and it's not that intensity. I'm sorry that the first debated colleague is not present, but there have been European defence forces for many years and the headquarters is in Brussels. We also know it as a formation, and it should be known to be a formation of someone who is a member of the JNA or a pensioner of the Serbian Army, which is EUFOR, currently in BiH, as a formation ahead of European security. On the other hand, the question arises who participated in writing these documents. I must say, this is what the entire government has been working on. The Ministry of Defence was a system of integrates, which, I must admit, is not often seen in the world, that in the world it is the most common foreign ministry, but that there are not many jobs here to be done by the Ministry of Defence. Simply, this is one chamber of all, let me say, participants in public dialogue, who were not only within the government, but also within the non-governmental sector, and within those who are professional and professional, colleges, etc. There's no homework assigned here that's supposed to be done in some future just by the Department of Defense and that we've been granted the exclusive right to deal with national security. On the contrary, the fact is that the Ministry of Defense, as such, treats national security as such, but a lot of what you've counted is absolutely correct and that I don't speak, families, and so on. However, what I cannot agree with is one thing that clearly exists as a misunderstanding, the London Conference, which took place at the end of 2002, defined the biggest challenges, risks and threats coming from Southeast Europe and that is exactly the area of Kosovo and Metohija. We can discuss the things that we put in place that it's because of independence, among other things. You can be against it or not be against it. The fact is that it is the current security biggest black hole in Europe and that security throughout Europe, and beyond, is threatened precisely by the degree of crime coming from Kosovo and Metohija. It's just that we couldn't, we couldn't, we couldn't, we couldn't, we didn't want to get it out of the National Security Strategy. Also, the fact is, we didn't do politics. This document is not a political document, exclusively. This is a security document, and there's no right to mercy in relation to anything that might be some kind of sound policy. It's just, it's the actual state of things. Believe me, there is virtually no minister, ministry, and whoever we've talked to about security, which is not only about the crime-related problem that comes from Kosovo and Metohija, but also about fundamentalists, extremists, etc. That's what they're called. Asymmetric threats beyond our country's borders. Of course we're putting them on, even though they're in some other countries, and we don't think Kosovo is, I mean another country. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27048	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27049	Of course we don't need to overly politicise the security issue, because when we face threatened or compromised security, then it doesn't matter if we're LDPs, DSs, "progressors" etc. What I was talking about, in fact, is this formulation that certainly directs the other direction and the attention and thinking of whoever analyzes the National Security Strategy. This is not about Kosovo as a place where institutions function, as a place where our country has not been present since 1999, the international community has not sufficiently built its security system to ensure the security of the region, but rather a very clear formulation – the unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo is the biggest threat to the security of the Republic of Serbia. I am not thinking that the Ministry of Defence should be expressing its political views on Kosovo and Serbia's attitude towards Kosovo. I think this formulation just represents the circumstances and ideal environment for the affirmation of that policy that is a direct threat to modernization of our country. Because such a situation in Kosovo is the result, not the cause, of the problems we have been thinking politically about and of which we have been trying to answer for years. As for some joint work of all other ministries, it's obvious. I think it is minimum for them to appear here and assume their share of responsibility for this kind of document, even if the Prime Minister, in a situation where we are looking for effective solutions to security in Serbia, I think that would be an adequate answer and proof that the state is seriously accessing one of these topics. And not now to leave you here at the mercy of the MPs who need to question you, which are religious sects that threaten security or what you will do about unbalanced economic development. It's not a job, it's not a defense minister or an army. But the fact is that we do not have system solutions that would clearly point to all those who must be involved in the development of the National Security Strategy. And it would be good for us to come to those solutions in the meantime, so that in future, we know whose obligation it is to define the National Security Strategy and take responsibility for its implementation and its implementation. This, unfortunately, turns out to be the Ministry of Defense's obligation, and as a rule, we are in a situation where we were in the past, when the role of the military was not known, and when the Army was responsible for everything and for nothing at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27050	Thank you. The word has Mr. Bozidar Delic a National MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27051	Madam Chairman, Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first let me say, here's the first attempt to write such an important document. On the other hand, the team that was doing this document deserves recognition, because it's engaged in this very difficult task. Just to remind you, the first strategy in the premises of the former SFRY was done in 1983 under the name "Armed Fight Strategy". Many dozen experts, experts from various social areas, and the work lasted months, and these people were freed from all other obligations. Article 14 The defence law has been regulated to draft a national security strategy by the Ministry of Defence, and Article 12 suggests that the government propose it to the National Assembly for adoption, as regulated in Article 9 of the same law. All my knowledge is that the Ministry of Defence has drawn up this draft with its own potential and has not used the scientific potential of other institutions in Serbia, as well as the potential of more retired doctors of science, former members of the Army, experts in this area. If this were a mistake, it must be the fact that some of them are working actively today, some of the doctors are working for the needs of the UN organisation on similar issues. In December, the draft national security strategy was submitted for public debate, which was extended in January due to high interest and extended. I took part in one of those discussions myself. This first draft, which was given for public debate, was rich in errors, starting with logical ones, and to errors in defining individual terms. The proposal that lies before us today has passed through the lecturing triage and is much better than the original draft. What is particularly surprising is the use of a large number of foreign words and expressions, which, when translated into Serbian, seem, at the very least, ridiculous. Thus, the attack on the use of these words points to the minority manners of the author, so that it goes practically into the area of verbal masochism and the destruction of its own Serbian language. And when we read the title itself – National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia, we immediately come to the first dilemma, which is the nation's strategy. The answer could be -- only Serbian nations, since the other in Serbia does not exist. Now, if we wanted to be malignancies, we could translate this title as -- Serbian security in the Republic of Serbia. However, I think it intercedes something else, which is that the word "national" is uncritically taken over from English, where the term is translated as "national". So, the title of the document could or should read -- Serbia's National Security Strategy. But then there we encounter certain negative connotations from our recent past that remind us of national security, or today's BIA. If that was the problem, too, if it was to be avoided, then the document could bear the title – Serbia's Security Strategy. In short, I'm going to clarify some basic concepts from the very title of this document. Strategy. Initially, it marked the skill of war or warring. Later it gets the meaning of running or managing special organisations or significant areas of human activity, such as politics, economics, etc. Security in science is considered a state, i.e. the protection of a country, i.e. some good, some value, some company, some shit like that. In a political and security sense, it covers the overall protection of the state from all kinds of subversive activity of the external and internal enemy and other harmful actions and influences, and as a function, it is an inevitable attribute of the state, regardless of the character of the arrangement, the political system and the form of government. It usually covers the functions of state and public security and security of the armed forces. The document is filled with material, technical, linguistic and scientific errors. I'll only draw attention to some, starting with the introduction of this document. The science cannot respect the'strategic document' syntax, as even the minister used it today at his inauguration, because such a document does not exist. There is a universally acceptable scientific division of documents according to certain criteria, which has a total of 22. National interests of the Republic of Serbia. The question arises who determined them, who established them, verified them or practiced them? As far as we know, no one's done it to this day. If the authors did, they should be rewarded for scientific and legislative genius, but in our theory there are 18 different meanings of the word "interests". The question is asked which meaning was used by the authors, because their political interest is, in fact, indicated, and can be seen from certain parts of the text, in the selfish policy of one party. A lot of the text mentions human and minority rights. Language logic, what's the difference between human rights and minority rights? I guess minorities make up people, too. Do people in national minorities only have human rights, and members or people of national minorities have human and minority rights or minority rights? Who has more rights here? European foreign policy orientation, again logic of thought and language. Is it the foreign policy orientation of all European countries or only EU member states, or is it the foreign policy orientation of the ruling Republic of Serbia's establishment towards European countries and the EU? The strategy needs, and everyone needs it, to be clear that it is a condition that can be changed quickly. As far as is known, the Republic of Serbia has and will have various foreign policy orientations and will all be part of the so-called foreign policy. European foreign policy orientations. I'd like you to read Section 4. The introduction -- "The National Security Strategy gives an analysis of the environment of the Republic of Serbia, identifies challenges, risks and threats to security, and determines national interests. ''As far as I know, no document, so neither the Strategy can 'give', 'identify' and 'confirm'. Only authors can do that and expose it in the text of the document. Gentlemen, don't think this discussion of mine is directed against the author of this document. Unlike you, I even know them personally. They accepted this document because they were ordered to do so and they certainly did everything they could, but still the question of the scientific, ethical and scientific responsibility of the author is being raised. Why they set out to produce this document without having received other starting documents from the Ministry, or from the Government. In a similar way, they began to build a house from the roof. The government was supposed to hit the foundations and walls, so they could only make one such document. It is known that state leadership in properly regulated countries is developing a concept of state development that has its own public and secret part, then, the doctrine of state development, which also has its own public and secret part, and only then comes the country development strategy and state development tactics, i.e. certain areas. On this basis, there is a concept of the defence of the state which, again, has its own public and secret part, the defence doctrine of the state which also has the public and secret part and the defence strategy of the state and tactics its lower part. All of this was to be passed and produced immediately after the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and only after that were different laws to be passed, including the law on defence and the law on the Serbian Army. With us, it was all the other way around. There is great courage, but also responsibility, for authors to write the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia and the Strategy for Defence of the Republic of Serbia, without having previously created, or produced, these documents, concepts and doctrines. In view of this and of the fact that they have not been able to master scientific achievements in both their problems and the areas under consideration, it is no wonder that they have written such a document. The absence of a theoretical setting, and incomplete, even, wrong settings and claims, suggest that this document should be withdrawn from the legislative procedure, then found new authors or significantly strengthened by the team that worked these documents, and then written the valid texts and then legalized them. Simply put, the documents of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia and the Defence Strategy of the Republic of Serbia are not valid enough for acceptance and adoption in the Serbian Assembly. When you read the entire contents of these documents, titles and subtitles, especially individual explanations, then it can be reliably concluded that this is a typical example in a science called'miss Theme', I would like to say that text content does not match the title. In the first section – Security Environment, there are many expressions that deserve broader scientific consideration and definition, I would say only some: social security, the creation of a multilateral world, integration processes in the area of security, challenges and risks are unpredictable, asymmetrical and have a transnational character, a globalised economy, global security priorities, the transnational asymmetric character of modern challenges, risks and threats, transnationally profiled asymmetrical threats. When all this is read, I would ask the authors a question – what economy is globalized today in the world? Who's the outside enemy of global security?- I'm sorry. Let's make it funny, a little humor. Is it possible they're not aliens? What are the priorities of global security? We know that the authors do not dare to point out in the documents that behind all our problems are our friends or friends of our ruling oligarchy, our Europeans, and even if anyone dares to say it openly, and yet it should be said in some document, even though it can be read in these documents between the lines, whatever they are. The claim that security is indivisible is just stupidity. It is very strange of the authors that they did not mention in the text the resolution of the Republic of Serbia on military neutrality, and they had to. Some MPs spoke of it in different ways, and eventually, they have the right to do so. No matter what anyone thinks of her, she was adopted by the Serbian Parliament and must be ruled by all state authorities, until the Serbian Parliament changes one day. No one is allowed, after all, to launch such an initiative. When section two – Challenges, Risks and Security Threats is read, it can be concluded that no challenges are mentioned anywhere. According to this text, there is no challenge in the security of the Republic of Serbia. There are only risks, threats, dangers, sources of risk, endangerment, sources of instability and sources of conflict. A correct analysis, according to the author in this text, concludes that they did not respect universally acceptable and accepted provisions of the terms "dare", "risk" and "hazard" which are used as terms in various scientific and relevant areas of expertise. If you look at the first position in the third section – National interests in the area of security, it can be concluded that this is a typical example in science known as the 'empty definition', which is a product so-called 'empty definition'. "Inverted consciousness. It means that national interests stem from the highest values. The question is, which one? which are established in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As far as is known in our language, the word "interests" is used in six basic and twelve special meanings. Based on this text, it cannot be reliably determined which are the real, whether basic or specific national interests in the area of security? In section four – Security policy, too, there are many errors, wrong approaches and explanations, especially point 4. 3. Defense policy. The text in this section is a treat for a proper, scientific, academic debate. It is necessary to subtly consider the claims made by the authors that have a suspicious scientific value. For example, what is this – a multilateral approach to defence and security issues? The questions require finding the right answer. The problem calls for the right solution, i.e. seeking the right answer to a specific question. The defence and security authors cite as two separate phenomena, and consider defence as an integral part of security or security as an integral part of the defence in the next text. At the very least, it's weird. To remind ourselves: security is a protection against all forms of subversive action, and the defense is to oppose enemy attacks fighting different types of struggles. What kind of cooperative security or protection is that? What is defence and protection of national interests?- I'm sorry. Who planned the objectives of the defence policy of the Republic of Serbia and from which and whose strategic definitions they originate?- I'm sorry. What will be done if the EU does not welcome us into its membership? What's the difference between mission and mission? What's the difference between the armed threat to the outside, armed aggression and the armed attack on the enemy, external or internal? Finally, on the issue of the National Security Strategy, I would just like to move briefly on to the Defence Strategy of the Republic of Serbia and on to section five, point 5.1. The structure of the defence system, item 4, which begins with the claim – "The missions and tasks of the Army define the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". This is a real treat, too, for a scientific discussion. The said attitude to define tasks, or missions of the military, that is to say, the National Assembly of Serbia, is at least odd because the Assembly is not a commander of the military. She may approve or prohibit military engagement on certain tasks, but she was never a military commander. Gentlemen, once again, I would like to stress that this document is not acceptable to legislative procedure and adoption. The text contains a relatively large number of errors and arbitrary claims made by the authors. The text is suitable for taking scientific and expert discussions on these issues. The text cannot be corrected with the amendments, but it must be re-organised to re-write the valid text. May the Serbian Government be honored to refer such a document to the congregation procedure, as it speaks of its expertise and credibility. Again, and I apologize, after all, if I was sharp, to the authors of this text, because yet, this is the first time anyone dares to write one of these documents. And I think they did everything they could under the circumstances. Knowing how the ruling majority works in this congregation, I have no doubt that this document will be adopted. I said what I had, because in considering the issues in these strategies I consulted a large number of colleagues, experts in the field of strategy, whether from the Institute of Civil Engineering, or with people who used to be head of the Institute of Strategic Research. I've even been contacted by an expert in polymics from the U.S., which is our space. He, too... (President Gordana Komic: National MP, 20 minutes. The time at your disposal has been used. I will use the time of the parliamentary group. I just want one sentence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27052	You cannot use MEP time. We are now in the session when the words are given by the presidents of the parliamentary groups. Thank you. The People's Messenger Dragan Šormaz has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27053	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, at first let me say that the DSS will not support these two proposals for a strategy. So neither the draft decision on the adoption of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia nor the proposal for a decision on the Strategy for the Defence of the Republic of Serbia. In a debate so far, for example, counterpart Pastor said that he sees positive shifts in these two strategies, related to his explanation and his party's commitment to Serbia becoming a NATO pact, they can agree with him, with what we consider to be the other way around. So we see that this is a step backwards, especially that this is a step backwards from these two proposals, compared to December 2007, when we last discussed in this House the Serbian AP Kosovo and Metohija and in the Declaration that we have made, among other things, about Serbia's military neutrality, which in these two proposals there is absolutely no decision on strategies. There's not a single word to be said! In particular, after 17 February 2008, I simply cannot believe that for a long time some of our colleagues have completely forgotten, and it seems to me that ministers in the government, on that date when temporary institutions in Kosovo and Metohija unfairly, illegally, declared an independent state of Kosovo, and a day later, they were first recognised by the state of Afghanistan, then, immediately, by the United States as the institution of all policy activities within the NATO Pact and the main partner within the NATO Pact. But to move on to these texts, I'm going to be based literally on what's written in the text itself. Since citizens mostly don't know what it says in these strategies, I'm going to try to read some of the pieces, which we have objections to, to make the citizens understand better. As regards general observations and objections in principle to the proposal for a National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia, we point out that, when this proposal is adopted, there is no national consensus in Serbia on the national objectives or objectives of national policy. And so far, the debate in this House, on some issues that should determine national goals and national policy, has shown also, the Ministry of Defence, and we have heard it so far, can contribute to the creation of this document in the defence work, not the whole text, but, since some others are not ready to do it in the right way, let's say, in my opinion, the Prime Minister had to explain this document here, obviously, wanted not to, the Ministry of Defence had to do it, even there to defend it. In a way, the Ministry of Defence dealt with what was essentially not the Ministry's job and therefore, in a substantial sense, there is a lot of confusion, because there are a lot of conflicting attitudes in different parts of the text. I also agree with my colleague Delic that the formulations and language of the document are not at the necessary level. Mostly, it looks descriptive, kind of commentative, daily, and it's often imprecise. I'm going to go over the details now. When it comes to the security environment, let's say, they can agree with the writing works, for example, on the separatist aspirations in the region, related to Serbia's AP Kosovo and Metohija, then, recognition, that's exactly what it says. The Republic of Kosovo by individual states in the immediate environment of the Republic of Serbia, as well as a number of countries in the world, is adversely affected by the strengthening of trust and co-operation measures and slows down the stabilisation process in these areas, which is absolutely true. Further, terrorism and expansion of organised crime, corruption, illicit trafficking in narcotics and weapons, as well as trafficking in people, most pronounced in Kosovo and Metohija, significantly burdens the security situation in Southeast Europe, inadequately solving the return of refugees, exiled and internally displaced persons in the former SFRY area, etc. It's all true. Among other things, it says that in such conditions, the continuity of international support and military and security presence with the UN mandate in the region can contribute to stabilising the situation and prevent conflict and turning them into a conflict of broader proportions. Then it is not clear why, when something like this is written in this strategy, we agreed to withdraw UNMIK, that Eulex is coming, the KFOR forces are down, as far as we can see from the announcements. If there are still threats, and there are, on what basis and how do we react as a state, and we write something like this, let's say, in this proposal? So we're doing something quite the opposite of what this part of the Strategy says. Look, that's where the security forces of Kosovo are formed, etc. We all know they mean a threat to the Republic of Serbia. But how we react - by signing the Protocol on Border Control, etc. So, one thing we're saying is we're saying it out loud, and the other we're doing it in practice. As far as the challenge is concerned, I can say that challenges, risks and security threats, it seems to be just a mere listing. There are challenges, security threats, such as separatist aspirations, the danger of armed aggression, economic development problems, intelligence, national and religious extremism, it says that corruption, indeed, is one of the risks and threats of security, but here I see an uninterrupted thread in Serbia's rule since 2000, and we keep saying that corruption is a problem. Of the five governments, as elected since January 2001, the four governments ruled the DS, even the most influential and numerous with ministers, all the time had power in the province, all the time the government in the city of Belgrade, and the President of the Republic is the second term. Why isn't that question reduced as a threat to our safety? Also, the unbalanced economic and demographic development of the Republic of Serbia, etc. However, we believe that there should have been other challenges, risks and threats to the security of the Republic of Serbia, such as: international pressures. We are aware that there are daily, and that there are pressures on the state of Serbia today. Is it not under pressure to issue personal documents to Serbian citizens living in Serbia's AP Kosovo and Metohija? I'll tell you that I've been contacted by five Albanians from Gjilan, who want to take our documents, and they can't even know if they can come to Belgrade. How do they, say, get a passport? We all know that this was only done to prevent 100,000 or 200,000 Albanians from taking our passports and thus the EU, pressing on us, in fact helping independent Kosovo. We have such international pressures day and day, on many issues, on visa liberalisation. We were present when some government ministers spoke of it. Mr Dacic has openly said two or three times that Serbia is under various pressures still. One-sided sanctions and blockades – as a state, even more severe than unilateral sanctions and blockades, we had this experience in the 1990s. Something like that exists in the world today, and one-sided sanctions against some countries in the world, some are threatened with much stronger than one-sided ones. Is that a danger to us? To take the possibility that, instead of missile shields in Poland and the Czech Republic, the NATO Pact will decide to place missile shields in Kosovo and Metohija or, for example, even partially on Kopalnik. For example, the US ambassador to Montenegro had to answer that question to the Montenegrin government, because a kind of alert was made down there, when it was heard that it existed as a possibility. What if that's what you're really planning?- I'm sorry. What if it goes into realisation?- I'm sorry. What if we stand up to it as a state?- I'm sorry. Isn't there like a risk and one answer to the U.S., say, unilateral sanctions and blockades, to us, because we don't agree to such a thing? Political and social extremism, that's what we're talking about these days. There isn't any in this text. Internal terrorism, not at all, exists in the text as a possibility, but only on the outside can be brought. The armed rebellion whose goal is not to change borders, but whose goal is to change the political system of government or politics, and classical economic crime does not stand as a threat, as if economic crime is not really a threat, interference and risk, because the stronger economic crime we have, I guess we have less money in the budget, and the less money we have in the budget, we will have less money for Serbia's security and defence. These are some things that, in our opinion, are absolutely missed. In the part about national values, national interests and the objectives of national security policy, we also have the usual listing, often incomplete and vaguely formulated. Then, to move to National Security Policy. The work – The basic definitions of national security policy, in Section 3, literally states: "In the protection of sovereignty and territorial integrity, the Republic of Serbia is determined to use," I ask that we all watch what it says, "diplomatic, legal and all other legitimate means in line with the firm, constitutionally drawn determination never to recognise the decision of the interim institutions of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija on unilateral declaration of independence. “ I think it writes well, but then I don’t understand why they don’t act that way and why they don’t talk like that, because when they talk, they talk about the use of diplomatic and legal means. – This may be the influence of the president of the SPS, Ivica Dacic, who said this in the campaign, and later began to behave differently when he entered power. Then comes the problematic view: "Becoming of the belief that the national security of the Republic of Serbia is closely linked to the security of the Southeast Europe region and the continent in general, the Republic of Serbia will improve relations with EU members, as well as NATO members and partners on the basis of direct, close and long-term co-operation and joint action." Who made a decision like this in the state, ever? What about four pillars of national policy and co-operation with everyone?- I'm sorry. Where is Russia, if already spoken of in the region of Southeast Europe and the continent in general? Are we just going to improve relations with EU members and partners of the NATO Pact? Is there no interest in Russia here? Besides, that pipeline that's headed for Italy, too, shouldn't we talk to them about it? I absolutely don't understand why that part was left out and why it says so. In the work – Foreign policy (4.1.) As regards national security policy, it is said: "The historical, close and comprehensive ties of the Republic of Serbia with the Russian Federation on issues of wider national interest have been strengthened by the strategic partnership in the area of energy. The Republic of Serbia will continue the process of strengthening bilateral relations, especially in the context of joining the EU and strengthening its regional position, which would create a framework for a new dimension of a special relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation. ''It turns out we only need the Russians because they have oil and gas and we tell them this way, read what we tell them. And everything else and some other kind of co-operation? Here, to compare, what the following position says: "The Republic of Serbia is defined to restore the tradition of good relations with the United States, more than a century long," well, what is the tradition of relations with Russia, "the currents which both countries have stood together in the defence of general values. 'Actually, it should stand like this. To be clear, I don't mind, but I don't understand why it doesn't stand for Russia as well.- I'm sorry. "Despite the differences expressed through decisions by the United States to recognise Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence," and the differences are recognised here, we are not yet being targeted by tape bombs, enriched with poor uranium etc., "The Republic of Serbia is ready to improve relations with the United States, in the interest of consolidation of democracy, stability and prosperity in the Western Balkans. '"Can't we work together with Russia in all this? And with the U.S., but also with Russia? Why is it written for Russia – interests strengthened by strategic partnership in the area of energy? Because it's obvious, "Nabuko" just a word. "Nabuco" is just a word, everybody knows it and nothing else, so obviously this is how it had to be written. Next, we have this economic policy. I think that part should be thrown out, at least while this government is, since there's no economic policy. Over 100,000 people lost their jobs. The average is 100 euros lower than the last year. Then what do we need economic policy for? When we look at a piece of defense policy, there's no mention of military neutrality. To conclude, as far as this strategy is concerned, it is totally unacceptable. We believe that a national consensus on the key national values and objectives that are being protected must be reached in advance, with the participation of all relevant political and other factors, to access the creation of a document that would properly install these adopted objectives and values into a document that would be widely accepted and usable, variable and applicable in practice for many years. As far as the Defence Strategy is concerned, it is much better written than this one, as far as general observations are concerned. It is obvious that it was done by people who knew it better, whose job it was in the Ministry of Defense and who should have been more involved in the work. And here we have some objections. Let's say, as far as attitude 4.1 is concerned, on page 8. (The basis of the defence policy definition) should more precisely stand a provision that the Republic of Serbia does not consider any state or alliance hostile. We think it'd be better to stand - "in advance of enemy," because we see what brings day, what brings night. We don't think of anyone as an enemy in advance, and what happens later is a question. We believe that this text expresses the tendency of inappropriate internationalisation of the national defence system, because they prevail in both the objectives and the tasks of the international character definition, and according to this text, it turns out that half of Serbia's defence tasks are in fact international relations. We believe that this text overemphasises commitment to dependence on international factors and military alliances. Also, at point 4.2. (basic objectives and tasks of defence policy) we have objections. So – from the strategic definitions of the defence policy of the Republic of Serbia, the following basic objectives arise: – an effective defence system, okay, peace and stability in the environment, okay, – integration into European and other international security structures and participation in NATO's Partnership for Peace programme. Instead, it should be written in the formulation that Serbia should be a military neutral country. I guess that's our goal. I suppose we believe that the state of Serbia should be a military neutral country? We made that decision. There's no such thing, absolutely nowhere! It's not a disputed engagement in the Partnership for Peace programme, but is that the goal? What does the objective of engagement in the Partnership for Peace mean? (President: Time at your disposal has been used, 20 minutes. [[Applause]] Thank you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27054	The word is from MP Vlajko Senic, followed by MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27055	Dearly respected presidency, respected ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, I think this is an important topic, and no matter what the minister said, it is not a political picture of what the military or government is doing that gives a clear political calling, which, reading this strategy of national security, makes me optimistic. At this point in the environment in which Serbia is located, the military and the defence ministry are indeed making every effort to keep Serbia on the course it has been on since 5 October 2000, thanks to the Serbian citizens' will. We've been listening to some of the predecessors here who, seriously, some of the unserious ones, have analyzed this document. We heard from a man who has, at least he says, an impressive military career, that it is to claim that security is indivisible – ordinary nonsense. Parliament is a place where such things can be said, but that is why I want to start at this point and talk to the citizens of Serbia with an explanation, i.e. an attempt to explain that we can't talk about the security of the orderly nonsense and that security is indivisible, because the citizens of Serbia in 1999, thanks to one poor policy, catastrophic policy, wrong politics, felt on their head what international security is and how security is unfortunately divisible and how what you are doing today cannot be something that concerns only the sovereignty of a country and one territory. That concept has long been overcome. This is why it is good that this is how the Strategy is presented to the public, because this is how we send both the domestic and international public a message of what we want, where we go, what our goals are. There's absolutely nothing hidden, and I think that's a really good thing. Furthermore, I think that in the military area, in the area of military security, in the area of our potentials, Serbia, unfortunately or fortunately, stands better than it is politically and economically observed in the region, and that therefore our orientation for international co-operation, our willingness to share our security capacities, our desire to integrate Serbia's security capacities into regional and international environment, can be something that the Army is safe, and I am confident that Serbia's citizens will have tangible material benefits. Because the policy ultimately, as far as citizens are concerned, is whether politicians are able to formulate power and run the government in such a way that citizens have a certain economic improvement. In that sense, I would like to say that defining such a national strategy is an open space for Serbia to become indeed a leader in the Western Balkans region. And we are given the opportunity to become a country that, from one country that was the main problem in the Western Balkans region ten years ago, will become a country that will be military, and thus, during a certain time, a political and economic leader in the region. To make that happen, we have to open up, we can't close down. I think that's why it's important for all these things to be spoken out of the open and unequivocally in the National Assembly, and it's good that, and that's the obligation, the strategy is being adopted here. And it's a good thing some other laws are on the agenda, and it's a good thing we're going to pass this law on the international engagement of our military and other forces. What I'm saying is that Serbia, she wanted -- she didn't want to -- has a key role in the region. We are the country in which everyone is looking at when we talk about BiH, we are a country that, as far as possible, has reacted with abstention to self-proclaiming independence of Kosovo and Metohija and which, since this government has been in office, has been working with the European institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, not thinking, not that the demagogical repeats every day what is already clearly known, but in what way it can help Serbs and other citizens whose daily lives on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija through that co-operation to do some concrete assistance. With regard to BiH, of course, as one of the guarantees of the Dayton Agreement, Serbia also behaves very responsibly and very constructively. I think it's one crisis that we're obviously going to meet, it's heard every step of the way, it's seen with the naked eye. And for this reason, the moment in which we bring this national security strategy, this law on defence and all other accompanying things, is another step in which we send a clear message to the international community that our constructive role in the region will continue to be as it is – that by strengthening and strengthening Serbia's military potential, the region can only go towards stability, not instability. In this sense, when we talk about Serbia's regional role, then the question and future of our integration is raised and it is mentioned in different ways than all previous speakers. Each of us here can express his personal or party attitude, but the question is, is it our goal to achieve certain goals or is it our goal to just promote a party attitude? We all know that the decision on military neutrality was made at a certain political moment as a means of pre-warning the country's dramatic path to which it could go that some other forces won the wave of Kosovo and Metohija independence. We all know that at that point it was a less or more willing compromise, which allowed us to have the presidential elections and the victory of the democratic candidate, after that, soon, parliamentary elections and the victory of the European coalition. Are all those who voted for military neutrality deeply convinced that this is in Serbia's interest when we talk about a picture in the future? Probably not, but unfortunately, we have entered a political system in which we cannot achieve all the goals immediately, but we have the right to dream and to believe that we will achieve all the goals that we have fought for in some real time. In that sense, I can say that I am convinced that Serbia's interest in a future, a close, real one, becomes a full member of the NATO Pact, but I must note that we have not yet fully exploited the potentials that exist through the Partnership for Peace with the NATO Pact, and I think that's a good way to go. I believe that in the coming period we can expect more activity in that area and that we are already sending a message where this country will be at the end of that road. Through that path and through such cooperation, I believe that we will win the most part of society for that final decision. Who will eventually take responsibility, whether citizens at a referendum or politicians in the government, the Assembly, we will see, that's a question for the future, but in any case, I think that's what people who are competent for the military area are talking about. It is clear that at some point we will be in a position to be perhaps the most powerful military country in the region without being formally in NATO membership, and it is clear that at that moment we will answer the question. What I'm saying is that somehow in the shadows there are certain other activities that lead us to that goal, which aren't sufficiently affirmed. I think Mr Jovanovic also spoke of a visit to a parliamentary delegation in the United States. Since I was a member of that delegation, I want to say that I felt really good, that we have an army leading forward Serbian society. So, if you had the Army, that you had an institution, which was often not quite connected in the past with some democratic process, anyway, yesterday was this tragic 'five-year-old', but that you felt at every step where you were admitted, that the reforms and things that were done in the Serbian Army opened the door to Serbian politics, I think it's a process that must continue and that this is a process where Serbia really has a great chance. I'm just saying that our co-operation with the National Guard of Ohio, which many here have laughed at, is something that has been assessed as the best bilateral co-operation in the area, that at this point one of our cadets is studying at the West Point, or a pitomac, as others might say. I think these are concrete things that Serbian citizens benefit from, that this is the direction that we have clearly taken and by adopting this strategy we remain on that path. In any case, it's a good thing the public debate was so open, so long, that everyone could take part in it. It's a little strange that this strategy will be voted by people who see completely differently what it offers, where it takes us, and what its goals are, but it's probably a picture of the political mood in Serbia today. The document stressed, I will conclude, that today it is a matter of energy security, stability, etc., one of the key, when we talk about the security and stability of a country. I think that's something that probably shouldn't have been processed anymore, but, in any case, we're practically living in a situation where our energy dependence on a country is large, because today Russia has a company that is the majority owner of our largest company. I think that's the question this strategy was probably dealing with, and that's something that's now our economic and political reality, and that we're also going to have to count with that factor in the future. I believe that it will be, regardless of all the differences and regardless of the different attitudes of some of us to this arrangement, something that will still make a constructive contribution to all of this. In the end, I want to say that the issue of joining NATO is not something that someone is forcing us to do, that it is in no way related to joining the EU, and that those who do not want to see Serbia in NATO are trying artificially to link Serbia's entry into the EU, that, unlike some others, NATO at least does not force us to change street names. But I do believe that this way and this kind of development is going to be our ultimate and natural goal, without some ideological debate on the road, because really, we are no longer living in some cold war period today. If you noticed, these two countries today cooperate very correctly, very professionally and very successfully. That's why I think that's how we have to think, too, if we want this country to grow into what the potential really exists, which is the economic, military and political leader of the entire region. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27056	The word has the People's MP Boris Aleksic, followed by the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundzija.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27057	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, since we were particularly able to hear praises at the expense of the NATO Pact, and now, I would suggest to Mr. Minister Sutanovac to launch an initiative in the Government of the Republic of Serbia to restore the monument to the children killed in NATO aggression, which has been desecrated in the Tasmajdan Park in Belgrade for five years. Among those children are Albanian children. The statue from that monument was stolen, cut and destroyed years ago, so I think it would be a good time to rebuild it. It looks really ugly if it's not complete. So that's the first thing. When it comes to the National Security Strategy itself, as well as the Defence Strategy, I have to say that there has been a chase of general concepts here. Mr. Minister, you're trying to reconcile two uncompromising concepts here. The first concept is the concept of human security or the so-called "Human Security concept". He was promoted to the UN by Kofi Annan in 2003, but under strong influence and pressure from the United States. Prior to that, it was promoted by a number of NGOs in the United States, primarily the Foreign Relations Council, which many authors believe is an informal power centre in the United States, and also the US Peace Institute. They promoted the concept in co-operation with a Canadian organisation, "Responsible to Protect", and also "Preventing Genoside", therefore, responsible for protecting and preventing genocide. Their theory is based on the results of aggression on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. They said: 'The time of sovereignty of the state is over, a new era is coming, we now, instead of the state, will put individuals first! ''But as you will see, it is an outdated concept that existed in the fourth century and later in the Middle Ages. So, nothing new. Under this concept of human security of the NATO Pact, US troops can intervene anywhere in the world to prevent climate change, to prevent pandemics, to prevent the threat of human rights, of course, as they interpret human rights, and as they interpret it, we saw it well in our own case when they violated the Charter of the United Nations and committed aggression on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 1999, threw poor uranium, etc. There are examples all over the world. So that's the concept of human safety. He directly opposes the concept of sovereign states, which was defined by the far-reaching Western peace in 1648. The peace has declared state sovereignty and has been accepted in Europe, among other things, by Russia as one of the signatories of the peace. He remained in force, practically, through different variants, among other things was accepted through the Charter of the UN until 1999 when these boys from the West began to develop the concept of human security and so on and so forth. Now someone might think that the concept of human safety is something new. Like I said, it's not. In order to make it easier for Muslims to devour crusades, they invented a concept of the Satanization of Islam, which was promoted by Tom Aquinsky and others. He was promoted earlier in the fourth century. Then the refugee religion was Islam, and based on that concept, crusades were launched. Later America promotes the concept of refugee nations – the Rouge Nations ('unobedient countries') which is based on the same principle. He comes down to fair war theory. So war can be fought if it's just. The United States can attack any country in this world if they have a valid reason. Toma Aquinsky and St. Augustine have defined some of these reasons in the distant past. So, the Americans have returned to the concept of human security in the distant past. Like I said, that concept is devastating. He has in the past led to severe and serious wars. It today leads to the collapse and destruction of the UN concept, a concept developed after the terrible Second World War, under which all states are equal, by which all nations are equal, whether small or large. The force can be applied, but in accordance with Chapter 7. Command OUN. In the National Security Strategy, you've confused these two concepts. On the one hand, you want to co-operate with the NATO Pact, the US and the EU, and on the other hand, you want to preserve Serbia's territorial integrity. Well, he can't, he can't, because NATO is a pact, the United States and the EU, and I'm going to present a little later on the documentation about it, openly against the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. They do not treat Kosovo and Metohija as Serbia's territory. You have even on the official EU site and a map of Serbia, where the borders between Kosovo and Metohija and the rest of Serbia are set as state. And I'll give you that, too. Let's see some other concepts. As you know, you should know, Russian President Dmitri Medvedev promoted a new concept of European security on May 15th. What is the essence of this concept? The essence of this concept is that the United States does not dominate European security. As you know, Mr Sutanovac, and your associates, co-operation between the NATO Pact and the EU has been defined through the "Berlin Plus" rules, where the European security system is involved in NATO's security system. They have a certain autonomy, but within the framework of NATO's security system, while respecting some basic rules, no duplication of resources, no duplication of the chain of command. It is very clear that European security controls the NATO Pact, i.e. U.S.A. So the Russian president presented this concept, the new concept of European security, very detailed. He is very good, unlike your defence strategy, based on Euro-Atlantic principles, this concept is based on continental Europe, the one he spoke of, say, De Gaulle, which is spoken of by General Pierre-Marie Gallo. It's a Europe that involves Russia. Europe without Russia is not Europe, but, of course, with Russia, it is Eurasia. So this concept is very important and it would ensure peace in the future. As you can see, the NATO Pact is slowly moving towards energy sources, spreading towards Russia, you have American analysts who speak very precisely about it and admit that they are surrounding Russia's military base system. The NATO Pact is not preparing for peace, it is preparing for a future war with Russia, for the control of the Euro-Asian mass, for the control of Euro-Asian resources, and they are the largest in the world. It's nothing new, it's done in the past, it's "Drang Nah Osten" or a march to the East, it's happened several times, it's been hit on their heads. Why is this proposal of the Russian president important, Mr. Minister, for us as a state? Because we have just been able to promote a new system of European security in our territory, because it is based on the sovereignty of the states. As you know, the Russian Federation considers Kosovo and Metohija an inseparable part of the Republic of Serbia. It is with the help of this concept that we can carry out until the end of Resolution 1244, that is the UN Security Council Resolution and return our military and police to Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, you can't talk about it. On the other hand, what Richard Has says, who is President of the Foreign Relations Council, in his text of 24 September 2009, is more specifically an interview – we are probably in an era where international agreements and conventions will rather constitute an exception than a rule. He makes it very clear that the United States will not respect international law and international conventions, without any problems. And I've already explained to you the impact of the Foreign Relations Council on American politics, among other things, their personnel are Madeline Albright, Richard Holbrook, President Obama has often participated in their hearings, etc., and before him and George Bush, too, and many others. You mention in the National Security Strategy the NATO Pact exclusively, not to mention any other organisation dealing with security issues. You also have the Organisation of the Common Security Treaty, which is made up of Russia, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Belarus and Armenia, which is slowly expanding. For her, the Americans, the United States, claim that NATO's counterweight is a pact and already have several analytical texts on the subject, where they talk about Russia militarizing the organisation. Of course, they realized that it should stand up to the expansion of the NATO Pact to the East or that famous 'treasure to the East'. Besides, there's a Shanghai security organization. More than that, look, and other continents are waking up. No one wants to be in the NATO Pact, no one wants to co-operate with the NATO Pact because they know that NATO is a'steel fist' pact for the United States. Recently, Hugo Chávez and Gaddafi presented the security co-operation project between Africa and South America, which should be a counterweight for the NATO Pact. So all countries, all nations who think about their freedom, flee from the NATO Pact. I will later provide you with evidence and information from Italian sources that NATO is a pact that promotes terrorism, not only promotes terrorism, but also organises terrorist groups across Europe. Of course, since we're part of Europe, we're organized. Let's see what the national security strategies of other countries look like. It'll be American too, so you don't worry. First, the Russian National Security Strategy, you could have guessed that I would quote it first by 2020. According to them, international law has primate. The multilateral world is irreplaceable and the planet can no longer return to the time of the universal world dominated by the United States. Russia thinks it's a priority to protect the Russians wherever they are. It also takes the view that it has special interests in certain regions of the world. You're guessing that one of these regions is the Balkans, i.e. Serbia, but this is nothing new, the famous English geopolitical Makindar spoke of the important role of Eastern Europe in the control of Eurasia, the Euro-Asian massimonial, and in the early 20th century, if I am not mistaken, in 1903. Now here's your favorite National Security Strategy, promoted by George Bush. It's really big, but the bottom line is, the United States reserves the right to prevent a competitor from appearing in its power in any part of the world. I think this sentence is enough. You know what that means. They promote the concept of human security here, actually interventionist politics. That's the essence of their story. There's their 2008 defence strategy, which is very interesting because it confirms the same principles. So you'll hardly be able to reconcile these two systems, these two concepts. They promote victory in the long-term war, the defence of the state, the promotion of security throughout the planet, and, as I said, preventing it from appearing on the planet any competition with their power. Mr. Minister, the NATO Pact that is being promoted here, Italian Professor Daniel Ganzer published a book entitled "The Secret NATO Army". Ganzer explains that these armed formations, therefore, are the secrets of NATO armies, created throughout Western Europe, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Spain, Portugal, Austria, Switzerland, Germany, Luxembourg, Turkey, etc. According to claims made by this prominent Italian professor, the organisation and equipment of these secret armies, in fact terrorist groups, were provided by the US Central Intelligence Agency, the British Intelligence Service MI-6 and, of course, the NATO Pact. Basic methods of these paramilitary, i.e. terrorist groups, yes, so-called. strategy of tightness and terrorist action, false flags or false flags. What does that mean? It's Markale's market, where Muslims planted the bomb and later accused the Serbs of it. It was also done by these terrorist groups under NATO's control. It's happening today in other parts of the world. The Genzer in his book reveals that NATO was the core of that terrorist network. It states that the secret committee for planning and the Allied secret committee were the foundations of secret armies throughout Western Europe. We can remind you that Giulio Andreotti, chairman of the Council of Ministers in 1990, recognized the existence of "Gladi". You'll find that interesting because they were involved in the murder of Alda Morra. He also admitted his obvious ties to the organisations mentioned, including the NATO Pact. Also, Vicence Vinciger, a member of Ordina Nuovo, spoke openly to Italian courts about the association of these secret groups with the NATO Pact. Speaking of "Glady," he confirmed that the militia was controlled by NATO. They executed a series of assassinations throughout Italy and Western Europe. For example, in 1985 in Bologna, when 85 people were killed, the primary goal of these actions was to accuse Moscow of these terrorist attacks. In Germany, 1990, representatives of the Socialist Party came up with data on the existence of a NATO secret army in their country, which was contrary to international law and contrary to the constitution of Germany. When they threatened to publicize everything, including links of paramilitary formations with the Democratic Party of the CDU, they were blocked by data on Willy Brant's involvement in the entire operation. Also, in 1990, an official initiative was launched in the European Parliament to expose NATO, CIA and MI-6's role in the creation of other terrorist groups. You have that official data in the EU. Even a letter was sent to the President of the United States, George Bush. However, the United States and most European countries remain silent, only in Italy, Switzerland and Belgium have conducted partial investigations. Let's not go any further, let's see what the US Embassy representative, Deborah R. Menuti, is telling us, the head of the US Embassy's political department. She commended you, during a meeting she spoke at, in Novi Sad, on June 30th 2009. She first describes your successful co-operation with the NATO Pact, what you should have actually done, and you did, and says this: "This co-operation with NATO and international partners, such as the United States, was one of the success factors of the defence reform that Serbia has achieved to date. Serbia's army has been reduced to 30,000 soldiers. “ That’s the most important thing that the US Embassy in Serbia has pointed out, and it openly said what your role was here. As for the documents I promised you, the official EU document on Kosovo's path to EU membership, here it is, the official seals of Eulex, the European Commission and the EU. So what does Kosovo have to do to become an EU member? Apparently, they treat Kosovo and Metohija as independent territory. The official EU site also includes this map of Serbia, where the borders of Kosovo and Metohija and Serbia are marked as interstate borders. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27058	People's MP, 20 minutes have passed, the time that is available has been used. Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27059	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will not compare the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy with countries such as Russia and the United States, and I believe that this strategy has a special value, precisely because it comes from the fact that it is Serbia and starting with that Serbia should objectively sum up itself, its place, its objectives, its own interests and finds a way to secure what is the goal of one and the other strategy. Of course, the MEP Group for European Serbia will vote in favour of these two strategies, because we believe that it is of particular importance that these two strategies are ahead of us today and that although they agree with those who claim this is not a political issue in terms of the party issue and the party understanding of the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy, this is still an important political issue for the citizens of Serbia as well as for the world. So we address the citizens of Serbia, but we also address the world, we address our neighbours, and in fact we show these documents who we are, what kind of society we want to build, what our priorities are, what our relationship is to ourselves, but what our relationship is to others, above all, to the values that we have declared. There have been objections that there has never been a national consensus on what national interests are, national objectives, I think we have no dilemma about what national interests are. National interests are defined by the Constitution, they are defined by the basic civilization values that this country has accepted and, in this sense, for us these two strategies have special importance, because these are precisely the starting points in determining responsibility, competence, and obligations of institutions when it comes to national security and the Defence Strategy. The Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the Constitution, is making arrangements for issues such as sovereignty and territorial integrity, the security of the Republic of Serbia, the defence and security of the state and its citizens, and the Assembly, according to Article 99 of point 9, adopts the Defence Strategy. In that sense, for us these documents are documents sent by the Government and they represent, let me say, the government's unique relationship to these important issues, the fact that these documents represent and defends the defence minister here, there is no particular importance for us, except, of course, the Ministry of Defence has the greatest obligations and the greatest share in what these two strategies define. What is crucial to us in the definition of voting these strategies is the fact that these strategies come from the real view of the world. So in these strategies we see that a fundamental analysis of what the world today is and what Serbia in that world is, can and should be. These strategies do not have ideological omens, nor are they burdened by what some, from the discussion, would want them to be burdened, which is sort of oscillating, overcome, historically defeated concepts of defence and security. So what for us is the reason that we vote for these strategies that some others dispute is the fact that they are based on the scientific insight of the world in which we live today. They are also important because they assume that this world is changing dynamically and that these strategies do not contain skeletal definitions that prevent Serbia's own strategy from changing in these areas, but rather allow us to change our own resources in accordance with the changes around us, change our own goals if we need to change the means to achieve these objectives. Another key thing, which is important to us, is that these strategies take into account other countries' experiences, take into account the country's experience, therefore, and the knowledge that we have from our own and not so long ago experience. What is of particular importance to us is that here the issue of security is increasingly a matter of international co-operation and international environment, so the country must not act as an isolated island in defining its own defence and security strategies, and these two strategies are stressing it right now. We believe that the objection that there is too much attention to the international factor and the importance of international factors is, in fact, the advantage of this strategy because the essential danger, or the essential advantage of Serbia, I would like Serbia to always benefit from and avoid any danger, is that if it understands and understands to what extent international integration into security structures is important to this country, and the assumption of its security and security, that so much will have less problems in the future. And that is why we believe that the issue of connecting with international institutions is a key issue in achieving these two strategies. What is now an open question and does not require an immediate answer, and apparently polarises our society, is a question of NATO membership. There is no doubt that the Partnership for Peace is sufficient framework in this time to achieve this co-operation. Of course, it is important that these strategies do not limit Serbia and do not set goals that cannot be achieved. Both as a parliamentarian and someone who advocates the establishment of civil and public control of the security services, i.e. the security sector, I believe it is important that these strategies provide for full control of defence and security. I think that also enables us to build what is one of the assumptions on which these strategies are based, which is building a truly democratic society. That is impossible if the issue of security is not a question that is perceived by the democratic public. So, all of these reasons for us are the reasons to express our satisfaction that Serbia also presents itself through these two strategies proves that it is a country that wants to build a democratic society, that it is a country that considers its role in achieving stability and peace not only within the country and in the region to be extremely important and that it is ready for its maximum contribution to, that Serbia is a country that is ready to build an international order, which will rest on defending all civilization values. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27060	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, want the word? No, I don't. ) The word has a minister, Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27061	Thank you. After these discussions that have been, hopefully well-intentioned, I have an even greater belief that we have made one document that meets the criteria of this high house and which I hope will be voted in Parliament. The lack of a national consensus on the goals of national policy cannot be an excuse for not working in Serbia. The fact is, there's no consensus, but I'd like you to tell me when it's gonna be, when we can count on it, so we can start working. In the meantime, we try to justify our position. It has been mentioned several times whether we did someone else's work. I have to tell you, the Military Act of Article 14 of Section 2 states that we are working on a draft national security strategy. It has already been defined in the law that exists, which was adopted in 2007. Don't get involved in whether we did someone else's work or not, we accepted then to do a job that may not have been ours, but now it's ours. What I think is really hard to say here, and think that you're right, is to say that'stupid' when we say - security is indivisible. I don't know how much consciousness needs to be narrowed down, so you don't see that in the 21st century, security is absolutely indivisible and that all the challenges, risks and threats that exist in the region are spilling over to all the countries. In particular, with us from Ankara, let's say, to Vienna or even Afghanistan, to all of Western Europe and the east coast of the United States. Saying such a thing with a tendency to say that you have all the authority of being a member of the Army is more than questionable. I have to tell you that we have really tried to put all the risks and threats that are absolutely regionally included in this strategy. We can't view anything as, so to speak indivisibly, as one of our own. Just look at the things that have been happening lately, the issue of organised crime, if you look at even these things about hooliganism, if you look at some other challenges of extremism, fundamentalism, all of this has a context of regional and it's simply inadmissible to say that "stupid" is to define that security is indivisible. Apropo monuments in the park, the honourable young MP, will remind you that I had an initiative to arrange a monument that was made after 10 years, or nine years, in a park near Dragisa Misovic hospital, where seven members of the Serbian Army died, it was my personal initiative, it did not go to the defence ministry's expense. I'd like to invite you to try your own personal example to do something like that. I think these very hooligan groups, which have torn down these monuments and printed various graphs, tend to bind to your party and to the parties that have your orientation. Show your example that you are building on those who have done so on your behalf. [[Applause]] To talk about that no one wants to cooperate with NATO, in a time when we all witness that Obama as president of the United States has just returned from Moscow, is absolutely absurd. At the time that we were under NATO bombs, they cooperated with NATO, so that story just doesn't stand. Unfortunately, in the 21st century security is now the most important thing. They used to be human rights, now it's security. And not only is it a trend in Western countries, it's a trend in the whole world. I remind you that at that time, the President, Putin and President Bush, both said the same sentence only in a different timeline, but in the same context, that they would protect their interests wherever they were at risk in the world. One sentence came after the collapse of the Tower in New York, and another sentence after a terrorist act in Beslan where a large number of children and women died. Analyzing one statement, not mentioning the other, is at least incorrect or shows one elemental ignorance, which I do not object to, it will be the citizens of Serbia in the next election but will analyse it. To talk about the Serbian Army and to talk about the numerical state of the Serbian Army, to quote, I don't know whose quote, and to say that I was tasked with reducing the number state to 30,000, is another one in a series of lies! Serbia's army today has a slightly greater number of states than when I became defence minister, so today it's bigger than it was when I became defence minister on May 15th 2007. And what happened between the period when the defence minister was Mr. Tadic, when there were about 78 thousand and the moment when I became defence minister, when there was little less than 30,000, you will look for this issue in your strategic partner who at the time led both the government and the state and the Ministry! It just doesn't seem like I've met any demands. On the contrary, I must tell you that I am convinced that the Serbian Army has not had better treatment in the government of the Republic of Serbia and amongst citizens for a long time, that it has not functioned better through professionalisation, even increasing in one segment a number of states. The last piece of information we're currently working on, we're going to make the Army modern and modern, primarily in terms of our society and our defenses. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27062	Now it's 2:00 p.m., the usual time in the Rules of Procedure to set a break. I ask the People's Messengers not to earn. ) Since MP Boris Aleksic is mentioned in the presentation, he has the right to reply, so we will start today later than it is 14.00 hours. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27063	Mr. Secretary, I just thought I wouldn't get a chance to answer your question, that you'd already be going to work. As for the monument, the monument included Milica Rakic, who was killed by the NATO Pact in 1999. I said he was destroyed years ago, over five years ago. I, as a MP, can launch that initiative, and you are a representative of the executive government. Don't distract us here and talk to the MPs like that. It is your initiative to do something, you have these possibilities much faster than the legislative body. If you do not know what the powers of the legislative body are, take it, open the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What about cheerleading groups, what cheerleading groups?- I'm sorry. Those cheerleading groups you're dragging through the paper today, they all have American symbols on them. Why can't your police arrest that part of the group that's dealing drugs that make those incidents? - You're accusing patriotic organizations, patriotic organizations! How can you not be ashamed?- I'm sorry. Those drug dealers are doing it! And whoever's holding drug dealers, we all know that. Cocaine in this country and in other countries is torn apart by Americans, and heroin is a public secret. Don't make fun of us. Who are you accusing? You're accusing Face of attacking strangers!
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27064	National MP, if you have information on who is involved in the drug trade, please remind you of the obligation as a representative in the legislative body to share this information with the competent services, not to use them and abuse them to participate in a political fight or rhetoric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27065	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27066	If you want to help fight organised crime and drug trafficking, and you own information, I publicly oblige you to share this information with the competent authorities in the Republic of Serbia. The Department of Defense. ) It is a very serious matter spoken at this time during your right to replication and it is my duty to remind you how serious it is. If you're showing a rude gesture to me or...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27067	No, I just showed you handcuffs, just to arrest me if you want...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27068	... Minister or public, I'm going to ask you to translate the gesture you're showing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27069	I've shown you can arrest me if you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27070	People's MP, I can warn you of your obligations as representatives of the National Assembly, I can warn you that you are violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and then if you disobey the warnings, it is my duty to punish you in cash, or that the Administrative Board punish you, if I give you my first warning, second warning, by taking you away from the session or by taking away your words. These are my obligations, I know my obligations, and that is why I am obliged to remind you – if you possess information about drug trafficking, that you are obliged to share them with state authorities. I ask you, during the replica, to replicate the minister to what he has spoken as a comment of your presentation, and part of my warning to you and reminds you of what your obligations are, to be forwarded to the state's attorney's office and to the competent authorities who are fighting drug trafficking and organised crime, so that they can get information about the needs for their work. Go ahead, you've got another minute and 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27071	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. First of all, the information was presented by the minister. If you're warning me, you could have warned him too because he started that story. So, what I said, I'm behind it. I didn't finish the face story. So you started accusing them of causing violence and attacking foreigners, even though their leader is in Guca every year, he wrote a monograph of Gucci...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27072	National MP, I have just reminded you that you have an obligation as a representative of the National Assembly to respect the decisions of other state authorities. So, if you want to express your position on a subject that has neither been presented by the Minister nor yours, then you can only do so in the event that you respect the Constitution of this country and respect the fact that the organisations mentioned are the subject of the prosecution's investigation. You cannot defend them in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia until the investigation is complete, nor can you influence the investigation. Thank you. National MP Velimir Ilic asked for a word after part of the session was scheduled for the presidents and authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups to be completed, so I am now giving you a break at 14.10 p.m. The afternoon session will begin at 3:10 p.m. and will be held by MP Velimir Ilic, after which we will move to part of the session and discuss in order of the MPs. According to statements for the word, the first to be declared is MP Sasa Dujovic, followed by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27073	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The People's Messenger has the word, Mr Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27074	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very sorry that there is no minister and no one from the government to listen to this discussion of mine. I wanted the minister to hear some sightings of New Serbia and me as head of the parliamentary club. Unfortunately, you can see that interest is not going to be heard, but I will say, for the sake of the public, that some things are being found out. I'm glad that every ministry comes forward, including the Ministry of Defence with a strategy, and now that you ask one of the ministers what you do, what you do, what you did this year, last year, they say – we made a strategy, we have a national security and defence strategy. We have a strategy, that's what every ministry says, and it's a job done for them. However, these strategies, which are written, adopted, agreed, do not benefit us. Serbia has an extremely big problem, right now, and I expected here a much more serious discussion of the defence minister when he gave an opening statement, which lasted a few minutes, about an extremely problematic situation for Serbia, when it starts a series of projects that stretch, the fight against violence, the fight against terrorism, the fight against corruption, the fight against bribes, is all the fight to fight. It's simply not enough to say about this whole five-word strategy. I expected to hear from you, to see one serious strategy that will help Serbia get out of this whole situation. I wanted to ask Mr. Defence Minister -- how is it possible to build a National Security Strategy for the State of Serbia, if he doesn't even know where our borders are now?- I'm sorry. Under the constitution, Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia. Since the minister travels extremely much, he has good co-operation with both the Americans and the Chinese, and with Brussels, Moscow, have we seen, in all appearances, has anyone told him that he is obliged as defence minister to make this strategy for the entire territory of the state, what is defined by the Constitution as a state of Serbia, or is a strategy being made for part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is now in force? I'd like to ask for this little presence we have in the O.R., here, Mrs. Comic, at least don't speak. Let's hear from each other a little bit. So now I don't have to talk here, and the minister's gone, we don't have anyone from the defense, and you still talked, and then there's no point. I am pleased to see Mr. Minister enter and that this discussion will not be, although it has long begun, as our people say, "dangerous". The first thing that interests me is – where are the borders of the Republic of Serbia? Does the Strategy apply to the entire territory of Serbia? Does the Defence Strategy apply to the entire territory of Serbia? Do we have, since the minister had contacts, I see and is constantly mostly in America, talking to the US military summit, visiting them, etc., and what is our obligation to those parts of the territory that are constitutionally covered by Serbia, which is officially in the Constitution, because the oath has been passed and we are told to defend those borders that are constitutionally defined. However, strategies are being adopted and passed, but one situation in Serbia is extremely difficult. One strategy cannot be implemented. When the balances of the Republic of Serbia are currently looked at, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr Minister, we currently have 492,000 people in Serbia who are actively working and receiving salaries. About half a million people who are led to work do not receive salaries and are in those 900 companies that are before bankruptcy, blocked etc., which are all large companies, which total 70% of the losses of the Republic of Serbia in the economy. Can the state implement any strategy at the Ministry of Defence, if Serbia's economy is currently, if these 900 large companies are in charge outside of credit lines with 2,000 billion dinars? Of which: 1,500 billion dinars of long-term loans and 500 billion dinars of short-term loans. The annual Serbian economy spends 200 billion dinars to service interest on these credit lines. In addition, the state of Serbia is in charge of about 22 billion, the total debt of the state. This morning we heard in the news that we are in charge of the budget with new Russians a billion euros and with the World Bank 400m euros. What strategy at the Department of Defense can be implemented successfully if we are currently working on credit lines? Serbia currently raises its salaries to budget users in these last months of the calendar year, loans and service budget users. It was never in the history of the government of the Republic of Serbia! A commercial loan was recently taken, which we adopted at the last session, to pay the educators, so that there would be no strike, etc. Do we have a perspective and what the position of the Ministry of Defence is in a situation where the Republic of Serbia serves with the credit lines of these 550,000 employees in the administration. After so many failed privatisations, after this disastrous situation in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, we are now in debt after a loan; three billion at the IMF, 400 billion at the World Bank, one billion we ask of the Russians, one billion we asked of the Chinese. Well, folks, our grandkids are gonna pay for all this! How to survive if the economy, I repeat, is in charge of two thousand billion credit lines, i.e. the economy annually with 200 billion serving interest only in loans. These credit lines haven't arrived yet, some will arrive this year, and some will arrive next year. So in two years, we'll have a total bankruptcy of the Serbian economy and the state, together. There's nowhere to fill the budget. A million people are unemployed, a million and over three hundred thousand pensioners, disabled people and a variety of social benefits for budget users. It is proof that Serbia cannot get them out of this wagon that it has gotten involved in and is not helping any strategies. How do we organise the country's defence, how do we organise national security at a high level, if we have nothing to do with what, if we are fighting for the naked survival of Serbian citizens? At this point, Serbia is taking credit lines, literally, to ensure that Serbian citizens survive. A total of 57 billion euros have been injected into Serbia since 2000, based on privatisation, based on loans and donations, so 57 billion have entered the Republic of Serbia from 2000 to today. If it was lucky that it was used in infrastructure, in employment, in new jobs, in construction, in cheap apartments, then we'd have more real budgeting. Mr. Minister, your government has annulled the concession that was to be injected into the 360m-euro budget of pure money that would come from the outside and that was all over. It was annulled because some wanted to support the government to undo it. Now, when we analyze, in all these fights you've been talking about, strategies, etc., and I suggest you turn around a few of your friends in DS, two or three friends from the top of the DS, their companies, since you're the defence minister, have made media traffic, over their six daughters, 500 million euros. - Mr. Gilas' firm, which is why I'm with him in court and I'll be glad this process is going on, has increased traffic in this year, compared to 2005, 231,000%! Mr. Minister, everything the government does, the fight against breast cancer, the fight against breast cancer, the Ministry of Health, is now on the move, the fight against the disease of blood vessels, the action "let's clean Serbia", all that is done through a certain group, and the ministries are injecting money into certain private enterprises, which are very often washed, and have more budgets than you in the complete Ministry of Defence. I ask the authorities to check it out, and you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to look at it, it's official on the Agency for Economic Registers website. So, open the site, look and you'll see. It is therefore impossible to survive in a situation like this. We are now going into some fierce fight against violence, here someone was talking – drugs hara, gambling, bookies, but youth has a perspective. Let's see who the people are, and some are sitting here in parliament, representing the bosses holding the bookies, and some of the people in the government are there, moreover, shareholders. Let me check it out and request UBPOK and certain services to check it out. That's obvious. Mr. Schlaff, who came to the government, has a representative among us here, a lawyer who sits in this room holding all these strings, who knows everything. So let's solve these problems, if we can, but first we have to finish some state affairs, very important, because we're coming into a position to lose the state, that we won't have any serious defenses, or security, anything, if this is a bad situation. Mr. Minister, I was recently disappointed, after this tragedy at Uzic, when I saw that women who worked in the most difficult and responsible jobs were employed by a student cooperative, that they had 82 dinars per hour. So, can anyone work on gunpowder charges, be employed for years by a student cooperative? It's something inappropriate, unremembered! I expected to file some resignations after that report. That's what stopped talking and talking. I would like payments to be published in direct production and wages in the SDPR, which deals with trade, exports, etc. What about the debts and obligations that the SDPR has achieved and the responsibilities of certain countries whose leaders you meet? What is the future of Serbia, which is the future of our youth, which is a strategy to get out of this troubled situation, to normally live as a country, to organise ourselves in a safe sense and in a defensive sense? That's what funds are needed for, and we don't have those resources. I don't see any talking about the property the Department of Defense has. I want you to settle this matter with the Property Directorate. Hundreds, thousands of objects all over Serbia, are in total destruction. As it was bombing, I watched in some cities, I can bring you photos, and I can invite you if you have time to look at: cannons, tanks and everything, it's left in the weed, in the grass of two metres, it's healed and becomes a mockery of the city. Mr. Minister, military facilities have become a mockery of many of our cities; the wind has broken windows, facades fall apart, roofs fall, military equipment is left in the grass, abandoned, completely neglected, that's how it stands. And no one's coming and no one's taking care of it. Not to talk about the situation in other segments of the economy right now, not just criticizing you. I agree and I'm glad you got out, but I repeat, the situation is very difficult, very dangerous, and don't play with NATO and talk, hundreds of times, that we have to join NATO. It is also known how, until the Constitution and the assembly decisions are changed, Serbia is militaryly neutral, we must act as such, because it has been made. If we respect our own institutions, we need to figure out where we belong and how we're going to organize ourselves. I have to do it again from the beginning, where are our borders, Mr. Minister?- I'm sorry. Where are our borders, where's our line of defense, where are we gonna stop if someone attacks us?- I'm sorry. Where's our stone?- I'm sorry. Can this successful government run a successful foreign policy, which is a great friend to all the giants of the world and these big pillars around the world that are being set up, but say, people, before you kill that pillar, as long as we've stopped, as long as you measured us, where and where we are, well, let's get it in line with the law we've got right now. Therefore, I do not want some party institutions to be created, that much is expected of them. I don't think that's gonna do anything. Let's not create a party army! Let's not create a party state! Let's not create party justice! Let's not run from the democracy we've been fighting for years! And let's not just attack each other! Some who have worked hard to join the EU, you declare... When you didn't exist, gentlemen, many of you from the government, when you didn't even know what "d" was from democracy, we were in a battle for democracy, we advocated. That's when we visited Washington and those pillars of yours. They agreed and knew how to run, respect and appreciate one state, and that's why they wanted to put us away, because we weren't as generous as the individuals of the current government, who run a completely confusing foreign policy, who only ran from one to the other, who sold the Russians one refinery, across the street, to satisfy, and on the other hand, the Danube hastled to sell to the Americans. Define what you want, we'll be glad. Or, one of these strategies that you bring, which you adopt, respect it to the end. We'll like it even more. Don't get me wrong. I appreciate you and I respect you as Minister of Defense, and your associates, but I say that your efforts are in vain if the economic situation, especially the macroeconomic situation, is mishandled by an extremely bad... (President: Time. Mr. Minister, you can be the greatest genius, but you won't succeed unless you have the financial resources to realize your projects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27075	The word has a Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27076	I'll certainly understand your discussion in a well-intentioned way, because I think if one bile went from your side, it wasn't intentional. You and I sat in the government for almost a year together and shared both good and evil, just at the time when the "First Partisan" in Užica was the most employees through the Youth Cooperative, then you were visiting Užice as a local leader. You know what was going on, and then you didn't want to tell us it was a problem. No, I don't want to sit out of respect for the others. You say military facilities are in the grass. You're talking about how the Army left certain facilities, how it fell down -- I hear here that it was a project. Mr. Ilic, just when you were the minister, it all happened. The objects you mention, and I'd like you to mention who they are, that happened during your colleague's ministry in the government where I was an opposition. If you're talking about an object in Chačka and that facility, we find a solution. Unfortunately, local self-government doesn't always stick to the words it says publicly, so when we make a deal, it won't be like she promised. That's the only reason it's not over. To talk about "The First Partisan" from Uzic and to expect resignations, you, who were the minister when a huge explosion occurred and half Paracino died, none of your colleagues then did not resign, but did not even show up where it happened. No one came to see that. You've left us nothing but debts on this matter. The other problems we have are also from when we were together or before that time. Today, when you're talking about economics and the necessary resources, I expected you to say – Mr. Minister, thank you for what you did for "Freedom" from Cačka, thank you for the jobs that this factory gets, thank you for hiring the factory, which was collapsed at the time when the ministers were from your party. I didn't come here to be praised. On the contrary, but just to say, if Gilas' firm had that from 2005 to 2009, how long she was in 2007, when you were in government. It would be correct to say that in 2007, she had so much, and now there's so much, and then to say you were in that place, not to connect 2005. You were in power in 2005. You forgot that we shared both evil and good until a year ago. Let me tell you something, I can see you're proud of going to America. As Secretary of Defense, I've never been to America. The defence minister from the Republic of Serbia, from Belgrade, has not been in America for 25 years, including me. As long as you're attacking me on that point, at least be a little more specific. I'm going to America, so you know. I'm the first minister to get a call, 25 years later, to visit America from that position, and I'm proud of that, but I haven't been up until now. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27077	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ilic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27078	Mr. Minister, I'm glad you did something so correct, but there's no criticism. It is true that some of the facilities have been emptied and there is no army, but, Mr. Minister, you've been minister for three years. They're going down! That's what I'm complaining about. There's been funds to buy the House of the Army in Cachak Municipality for years. There are, but you can't tell how much it costs. Mr. Minister, I personally addressed you with a letter five times and a dozen times orally when we were together in the government to solve the Chachanic barracks problem and you said the services were working. The service works, works, and when they're done! You remember how many times I called you on the phone. You called, however, your associates. We've been working on it. Services assess, evaluate, measure, weigh, weigh, but it takes three years. Objects are dropping. The city mockery downtown. It's ugly. As far as Paracina is concerned, Mr. Minister, there's a warehouse that's unprotected that went into the air and damaged the facilities. As the minister and the man in charge of these emergency situations, I built all the new facilities, schools, and fixed everything in Paracina, Čupria, Jagodina. I'm done, but no one's dislocated the warehouses they needed yet. That's when you came for the minister. He can do it again, not God, to make a tragedy. Therefore, solve this problem. Mr. Minister, I've transferred large funds from my ministry to the Poniks and I've done all the work, I've fixed the runways, I've taken the bombs out of the runway, I've paid for everything, I've finished it, I've brought the end, where I've left it, and today it's standing. You recently said on Chacan TV that "shipmen" were not detained. I've been working, there's a project and it's found in Aeroengineering. The military ministry should take it and hire it to be "shipmen" for civilian and military traffic. It is true that a project has been done to extend the runway, expand, and control tower, etc., not to tell you that there has been a lot of work. Don't go off on me -- that was in that government, that was in this one. It's true that in 2007, Gilas worked, but you and G17 had a majority in the government. And that's why Kostunica and I left the government and called the elections, because you voted us and you always had a majority. That's why we called the election properly. So it's also up to you to be fair to call the election, if there's nothing more serious you can do. It's nice that "Freedom" started working, part of it, and it worked just as well. These contracts were signed by the director you replaced by a decree. Mr. Ilic, it's been three minutes. Thank you. ) Don’t, I wouldn’t want to do this now and get into some personal problems and conflicts, but be correct. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27079	The word is Mr. Sutanovac. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27080	I don't know what your personal problems are, and I don't want to get into them either, and I don't see the "Ponicua" propo, I don't see what's wrong with the Department of Defense. What are you talking about? What's the matter with us? So, that airport, in the government, is determined to be civil-military. He's not prosperous to us, let me say. What's the problem? That you're writing that you've ironed the runway? You know there are planes out there that are airing and day-to-day. That's what you knew then. The fact is, you and I have talked more than once about the property in Chačka, but I always told you it couldn't be free. He can't do it for free. No local self-government, none, I'll tell you all here to get something belonging to the Department of Defense for free. And that was the biggest problem between you and me. It's just that I'm not brought here to run the Department of Defense by every local leader asking me to give him something from that same army, and then to listen that the Army isn't ready for defence. That's the point. On the other hand, the House of the Army, which was evaluated and agreed, but now they don't have your money from the municipality. Well, I gave, I even gave permission to pay in two wars in two years, so this year and next year by March of the month. Check it out, before you talk, with your colleagues from the city of Chačka, after you criticized me, that you have complete information when you talk about it. And, believe me, I thought you left the Serbian government for Kosovo, not because there were more of us in that government. We were more than the first day. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27081	Mr. Ilichu, you wanted to do it again. On what grounds? It's a replica again. Okay, here you go, but, please, let's finish the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27082	Very short. The funds exist. Decisions have been made for years. It's all over and it's over and the building that was standing there, I've talked to the minister more than once, we haven't finished anything. You have to insist on doing the job. Yours was the director of flight control. It was necessary to install equipment in the Ships, to bring the airport into order for cargo flights. We were looking for it and we wanted it, and it was about to end. And there are municipal decisions from two municipalities, Kings and Chačka, because it's on the border of the airport and it's supposed to end. Do you know what the problem is, Mr. Minister? You have planes in the Ponikuas with nuclear ammunition, buried, that you can't unmount and remove, so it can't be over, because you can't do it for years and you can't solve it. Ask around. Your planes are stocked and lying there, and there's nothing to do about it because it has to be removed! So, come to me, I have all the information, I can help you solve everything, believe me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27083	I would like to inform you that, under Article 93(4), they are in agreement. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint single search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the Socialist Party of Serbia-United Serbia, New Serbia, G17 plus, the Liberal Democratic Party, For European Serbia, the Democratic Party of Serbia, Serbia's Forwards and the Serbian Radical Party. The word is Mr. Sasa Dujovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27084	Dear Presidents, respected colleagues, respected defence ministers, the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia and the Strategy for the Defence of the Republic of Serbia are at the moment where our country has significant documents, which are a prerequisite for our country to finally establish its direction and to start creating its own path towards establishing the issue of national security and defence of the Republic of Serbia in its future. Serbia must, after many years of wandering, as well as major war destruction and destruction, establish its safe path, raise its fighting power, and all in line with its historic heritage, as well as the economic situation in which it is located. At this point, it is important to be extremely realistic according to the opportunities we have, in order to implement the proposed strategy. The fact that the work of the territory of the Republic of Serbia contains foreign armed forces, in particular the NATO Pact, makes it difficult to implement the proposed strategies, it is clear that it is the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, and according to our current Constitution, Kosovo and Metohija is still, and I hope forever, an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. If we realistically look at the facts, the Republic of Serbia, apparently, cannot fully implement its strategies in the whole territory. The overall security situation in the Republic of Serbia is significantly affected by the multi-annual war waged on the premises of the former SFRY, international isolation, imposed sanctions on the SRJ and as the ultimate method of repression -- NATO bombing. An integral part of the difficulty in implementing security is preventing or slow return of exiled, refugees, displaced Serbs from former SFRY's space to their homes and to their properties. The defence system must be a structurally decorated overall force and defence entities, whose primary objective is to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia against the armed threat of a possible external enemy. In that case, the Serbian Army is the main subject of the defence system. It is necessary for the security system to be unique, as a well-organised force and means, aimed at protecting national interests in the domain of internal security. Internal security requires the backbone of the internal force to represent the MUP, as well as the security services. This fact is particularly important when we know that the threat of terrorism is great and that no one is spared from terrorism. The assumption that aggression on the Republic of Serbia is unlikely does not exclude it. The aggression itself is set as a presumption of armed conflicts of global or regional proportions. However, I believe that we need our defence forces to be ready for direct contact in terms of primarily armed provocations, especially in risk areas in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as preparedness to protect our people in the area of AP Kosovo and Metohija. The proposed strategies are needed by our country. We considered our suggestions and suggestions that the proposed strategy would be improved. In any case, I would like to point out that the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club will support the proposed strategy in the day of voting. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27085	Thank you. The word is Alexandra Jankovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27086	Mr. Minister, I must thank you for honoring us with your arrival in the Assembly and I am glad that you are not a Cave, so that these laws concerning Serbia's defence and security will not be defended by the minister of trade and services. I must admit that I find it very unusual, it seems to be some reform tendencies or the fulfillment of Djelic's remarks that there will be rotation in the government. As soon as the Minister of Trade and Service can come to defend a set of military laws, then probably when we discuss trade, you'll be the government's informant. I certainly won't thank you for what you expected, and that's to say how you did and brought the "Freedom" jobs from Chačka, that's your responsibility. What I think is good and what starts practically this decision to adopt the National Security Strategy is a finding that the world is facing challenges that imposes a harsh violation of the UN Charter and the universally accepted standards of international law, and in particular interference in the internal affairs of sovereign states, as well as the concept and practice of preventive attack and military interventionism. The attempt to give legitimacy, the creation of new state-owned structures in the territories of the sovereign states, UN member states, violates the existing international order and significantly threatens the general state of security in the world. That's where we totally agree. My question is -- why did you sign a new protocol with Eulex establishing a border between Serbia and Kosovo, and how much of these protocols will you sign from both Serbian citizens and the Serbian Parliament? A huge propaganda by the DS is trying to hide, and from citizens, what does this agreement really mean to establish a border and cross-border co-operation between Serbia and Kosovo. On the one hand, the honorable Tito's pioneering word is given, because you DS are obviously good followers of Broz's policy, that he will never give up Kosovo, and on the other hand, agreements that are signed step by step by step by step by step by independent state of Kosovo are signed. You seem to assume that Serbs are a stupid people, so they can't imagine that it is the government of the Serbian state that is practically an accomplice to the recognition of the false state of Kosovo! Does he know, for example, that this authority, that I will show you later evidence that in the middle of the Serbian capital, in Belgrade, you can buy cigarettes with the sticker of the Republic of Kosovo?- I'm sorry. Do you know that? So we agree that security is indivisible, that no country is able to solve increasingly complex problems of preserving and strengthening national security, but it is also true that the solution to global threats is in the integration of national security systems, with no sign of equality between integration of national security systems and Eurointegration, however. In this second item, speaking of a regional environment, you say something that was almost amazing to me. Southeast European countries accept and improve the value of democracy, economic and social stability and security, are pushing for dialogue. This, I suppose, applies to Croatia, and we are witnessing the persistent refusal of the Republic of Croatia to enable the return of exiled Serbs, to recognise their human and collective rights, which, of course, burdens both countries and, of course, that in the future can pose a serious threat to peace. We were almost even faced with a proposal or a request from the Croatian Association of Patriots, Volunteers and Veterans "Vukovar 91" who submitted a proposal to raise the memory of the plate in Serbia at the site of "suffering", according to Croatian prisoners in camps located in Stajic and Begejci. The Serbian government was even ready to do this. However, the Serb people decorated in the Zrenjanin War Disabilities Association and the municipalities of Zitiste rebelled against the decision, determined to disable the mindless intent of the Serbian government, which then eventually had to give up. It would be one zero for the people, if it weren't for the Serbian authorities to protect someone else's interest, except for the interest of their people, so the government did, so it may have lost one battle, but not the war against its people, so it kept quiet, and of course silence could mean approval for setting up a memorial plate on the Kamakcalan to the fallen Macedonians, victims of the violent recruitment of the Serb army. I mean, this kind of gesture best shows how much this party state and party authority actually care about the safety of its citizens. In addition, I think that previous counterpart Sasa Dujovic and many in this Assembly would agree that it is not a failure, but may be able to talk about the motives of the promoters of this strategy, the fact that there is no mention of NATO aggression, therefore, that NATO aggression has been committed against our country. It says that the overall security situation is significantly affected by the consequences of the multi-annual civil war and NATO bombing. It should stand – NATO aggression, because it is very important because of the finding of the threat to the outside, which makes it quite different to define the risks of the Republic of Serbia, but also our commitment to multinational and coalition forces and, of course, that civil war why it is waged. Nowhere has it been inserted again that it is the violent crackdown of the SFRY and the subsequent NATO aggression. Speaking of NATO aggression, here you are saying that there are threats and risks to destabilising the region and, of course, the Republic of Serbia in the form of paramilitary so-called wartimes. Kosovo security forces, which pose a serious threat to the existing regional arms control regime and threaten the region's balance. The security of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Defence Minister, may again be at risk of armed rebellion. The existence of a foreign military base on Serbia's territory, such as Bondstil in our southern province, poses a threat to the security of the Republic of Serbia. It is said here further in the text -- the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is the biggest threat to global European security and, of course, Serbia's security. This is usually a very common excuse for the great powers to conquer an area rich in mineral wealth, such as the examples of Iraq and Iran, and now, unfortunately, our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija. In addition, you are not in charge of public messages, national conscious organisations, youth organisations and, I say, the media saber and some other kind of saber, because you are only bothered by some inscriptions in that newspaper and the use of minor characters. You have set out to hide from the people and citizens of Serbia the fact that a new 'anti-air shield' is being created in the Balkans and that virtually NATO's aggression for the consequences has had the formation of the first NATO state on Europe's territory. After that, a NATO base was formed, and now we're getting a shield. Professor of Stanford Dan Wilking, otherwise an architect of Obama's shield, now believes that instead of Poland and the Czech Republic, optimal sites for missile shields are Turkey and the Balkans. Now, when the Balkans are said to be thought primarily of Bulgaria and Romania, although, of course, Tirana and Pristina offer, guess what, Bondsteel in Kosovo. When this is added to the fact that on May 31st, a tunnel opened in Kalimash, as part of the highway between Albania and Kosovo, which of course representatives of Tirana and Pristina viewed things as very historic for the development of Albania, Kosovo and the whole region, things became clearer. On May 31st, right at noon, the prime ministers of Albania and Kosovo, Sali Berisha and Hashim Thaci, were located somewhere in the middle of the tunnel, where others are not there, mostly what is very important is that Thaci then said that this highway is the masterpiece of Albanians, the highway of hope and integration, the main element of this spiritual, moral and physical proximity to Tirana and Pristina, is Kosovo's independence. And, now, guess from three times who performs construction works on this highway, whose company is famous American company Bechtel-Enka. Is that an accident? Hardly. If you've read, if you're following, and you'd have to follow the comments on various sites as defence minister, I'll mention your favorite "New Serbian Political Thoughts", here's what people say about installing this "protection". In translation -- the US administration expects the next year to officially recognise an independent Kosovo by the Republic of Serbia, you are practically, by signing these protocols, doing so, and establishing good neighbourly relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Kosovo. When that happens, and the persuasion on the Serbian side is firm, it can move into the deployment of the 'protection' component in Kosovo. So, there are a few small things left -- to break every resistance to NATO intervention in Serbia, so we now have a set of these laws, where in fact lobbying for NATO, to spoil every business with Russia, and that everyone who thinks differently about Euro-Atlantic integrations is being forced into the mouse hole. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27087	Mrs. Jankovic, time's up. Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Ivanji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27088	Thank you. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the Assembly, what's important to say, and what's left in my ears in some previous presentations, that's the concept of national consciousness. When we talk about strategy, then we must keep in mind what national awareness is, but if you replace national consciousness for economic patriotism, then you have the national pride that was defended in the previous term, the national pride that ended up in Istanbul field. It's actually a picture of something that is demagogy, replaced and defined by something called economic patriotism. It is important to have a strategy, and I think this is a good job done by the Ministry, given that I believe this ministry is doing an important, brave and successful job. What is also important is that these strategies must be taken into account for the first time in history and I commend the endurance shown in insisting on the adoption of these strategies. I am sure that they will not remain stoned, and undeveloped and unchanged for the reason that reality is changing daily, given the growing dangers that are from natural disasters to terrorism, and we can see that every day. This strategy is made under specific circumstances and thus needs to be interpreted, given that there is a decision that obliges us, which is a decision on military neutrality and the unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence. Therefore, the adoption of such a strategy constitutes a courageous act and in any case implies that we must have a strategy, but of course we must realise the strategy. What we must consider in terms of national interests is that today no country is able to solve increasingly complex problems of preserving and strengthening national security. Of course, in this field, the most pronounced issue is the sovereignty of each country, and because of this issue, sovereignty may be the weakest pillar of the European Union's common foreign and security policy, which is at the stage of development and changing on a daily basis. Of course, this is not about losing identity or sovereignty, but about the security of every citizen living in the territory of a country that is primarily an EU member and the EU itself. If every citizen, who is the basis of the security system, does not feel safe, no story of identity or sovereignty is pointless, but it is a prerequisite for everyone to be alive. The other day I read a statement from someone who represents themselves as a politician and said in his statement that we need them, as he says, both the Americas and the Russians, but I'm asking a question -- are we needed by the Americans and the Russians? That's the answer to many of our questions we ask. Serbia's position must be the position of the desirable state, not the states of the dark villa, the cheap life, the affected privacy, the black market. So, Serbia is not exactly supposed to be the kind of country that those who are now calling and calling on the Russians and the "Americans" and think that our need to be with them is not their need to be with us. Why are we in that position? Because we missed our chance to be Switzerland. Why aren't we Switzerland? Because we didn't have any politics or strategy, but through history we used to wander led by those who were led by personal interests trampled on us. It is not most important for us to have the Americas, the Russians, the countries of the unclassified, China, and I don't know who else, we need to clearly define our national interests, we need a responsible policy, but we also need politicians who will courageously take responsibility for a policy that will be in the interest of us not ourselves but of those people who will live after us. That's what the strategy is, and that's why the strategy is being adopted. We simply don't bring it in for today, but we bring it in for a future time, and we need to take care of both reality and security policies, we need to take care of our officers, that they too have to have knowledge of what the currents of civilization are, and they can't stay closed because they can't come to that knowledge. In both strategies there are well-recognized dangers, but what is unequivocal and what I always underline is that we can't do it alone. And when the official policy felt that we could do it alone and the world would know our truth, there was a disaster. Principles – international law, friendly peoples, brothers and similar terms, may exist in international politics, but they are certainly the smallest link in it. We need to define our interests that responsible policy must recognize, which are; very simplified: that when we get out of the house on the street we're safe, from not falling potty on my head until someone beats me up, because it seemed to him that I looked at it a little bit, that the state wasn't burdening me with taxes, that we weren't putting millions into buying new planes, that was to get a clear account of how much it cost me and what I get as an individual for it. There are many more questions -- how much am I out for my safety now, and how much would I single out if the state were a member of some military alliance, how much would it cost me if I were military neutral? Only then can I make a valid decision and then we can have a referendum on the state, common interests of our families, but with all the memories of all the bombings that were both Allied and occupied, ready to forgive, but certainly not forget. These are the basic postulates that should lead this country, starting with interests that are our own, personal, interests to live safely, in peace, but which together represent our national interest which must be defined. And that's what's most important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27089	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27090	We have already made it clear that our main objection to the National Security Strategy is that important elements of security integration have been left out. But for one moment, I would expand and say that it is precisely from this national and security strategy that the main problem is, especially since 2003, the blackout and lack of clear profiling of Serbia, its position, its future, security, in general, the direction in which it should move. In other words, it is not clear that through this strategy Serbia is somewhere between the East and the West and that this undefined position between the East and the West, which we hear very often, is in fact kind of politicizing the idea of security, because it does not know what it means to remain undefined in such a way. I believe that the biggest failure is almost completely ignoring the security issue of integration, and I say in the context that Serbia has not set itself by this document in relation to the most important alliance, where we should belong, since we are preparing to join the EU, which is NATO integration. In addition, there is no mention in this strategy of the National Assembly's resolution on military neutrality, nor is there any explanation of it, nor is it mentioned here, so if it is a basic strategic document, I do not know what relationship this document is with such an important document as was brought by the Assembly. Because, as I can see, there is no such thing in this strategy at all, nor is it said what kind of military neutrality would be, when it comes to this strategic document. This strategy, instead of establishing Serbia's strategic direction, actually contributes to the strategic confusion in which Serbia is moving in general. Also, it is said that the basic security issue is an attempt to secede the territory of AP Kosovo and Metohija. This is, and we're all aware of it, one difficult and very sensitive question, and if it's a fundamental security issue, then I have to tell the citizens that they are truly in every way completely insecure! Why? Because almost all the countries in the neighbourhood and members of the European Union have recognised Kosovo's independence, and it is logical that these countries are also the main threat to Serbia's security. However, the strategy states that Serbia is seeking to develop good neighbourly relations, means with countries in the region that have recognised an independent Kosovo, and also seek to integrate into the European Union. Then it turns out, since these countries have recognised Kosovo, and in most cases, almost all NATO members themselves, that we have one schizophrenic situation, instead of coherent, and confusion in the strategy itself, and that this is the weakest point of the whole document. I can also list some of the parts that are well made in this document. Let's say when it comes to national values. I really don't see what I'd like to add to those values that need to be protected, but this, fundamental, fundamental confusion over determining Serbia's position, of course, and when it comes to the neighbourhood and the European Union, I really don't think it can be avoided and that this whole document, practically with that internal contradiction, falls under the test of a clear and valid national security strategy. Now I'm just going to look at a few things specifically. It seems to me that some parts of this strategy are written as if they were written by Veljko Kadjevic. It's like they're reminded of another time and they're very politicized. At the beginning when you speak – a regional environment, you say: 'The risks of the outbreaks of wars and other armed conflicts in the area of Southeast Europe, although reduced, are not eliminated. An attempt to revise the provisions of the Dayton Agreement, which would be contrary to the interests of any constituent people, would destabilise the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and thus the region. ''I think that this formulation ''contrastity of the interest of the constituent people'''' - well, because these interests were opposed, which is why there was destabilising, which is why there were wars there. The Dayton Agreement was an agreement that stopped the war in BiH. But to form an effective, functional state, the Dayton Agreement is not enough. Perhaps, and that is what is now being done, that all three constituent nations may have to, in order to make that state not to be ruined, but a state that can function, to give up some of their opposing interests so that that state can function. Since this is the case, this seems to be very harshly said, that if you step away from the Dayton Agreement, therefore, that the peace agreement is basically, rather than the construction of a future state that needs to work – this is how you put it in a sharpened form as the possibility of even the outbreak of war conflicts. That would be the first remark, which seems to me to be preceded, when it comes to the region, not to mention other countries that recognise Kosovo. I've already said it causes a double feeling, on the one hand, the safety component is good relations with our neighbors, and then we cite them as a source of instability. These are all the opposites that are evident. When I said that it reminds me of some old times of terminology, I have to tell you that, let's say, it keeps being mentioned in Chapter 2: Challenges, risks and threats to security, and even here, in the end, when it comes to the region's security, it's constantly about a multi-annual civil war being waged on the premises of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, about international isolation. You write about it as if we had nothing to do with it. You speak further – sanctions that have been imposed, bombings, and especially these sanctions, and then you say, "transition." Well, we run that transition. What's in that transition that's causing some kind of security threat remains completely unclear. When you refer to the sanctions we've had, I remember that phrase that was often pronounced: "sensions of nothing caused and undeserved." Do you, gentlemen, from the military service of the Ministry, know why Serbia received these sanctions on 31 May 1992? Because the UN and all states voted and because Serbia was involved in the war in BiH. Now you're showing it as some objective circumstance that's going on and on and on and on, that nothing deserves sanctions, they're now the cause of all of it. You go so far as to claim that other people in the government participated in writing this document because you say, in the same sector, that the problem of economic development of the Republic of Serbia has arisen as a result of years of economic sanctions and the destruction of vital facilities of the economy and of transport infrastructure, during NATO bombing – means the economic situation and development, and not of what took place in the 1990s, not those catastrophic inflations, not the total destruction of our economy, but the 'undeserved and nothing deserved and the sanctioned'. That's why I said this termology wasn't depolitized, but it really reminds me of a time when maybe Bozidar Adzic and Kadjevic could have fun with this termology. I would add something else, perhaps a little excessive, that the National Security and Risks Strategy discusses the destructive functioning of certain religious sects. You know that our law has divided religious communities into traditional and non-traditional, and that small religious communities are exposed to discrimination. What kind of satanic sects exist? That's what I wanted to show you, is it possible that you had to name something like that, because some groups can really feel threatened by this kind of guidance. This is what I'm going to end with, this is where it comes from because the document, which we have in front of us, was done almost exclusively by the Ministry of Defence, was not part of the civil sector, many were not consulted, when it comes to the National Security Strategy, and it should have, because if they had participated, these things would probably have been removed. Here you can see more this military – a central approach that always seems old-fashioned and not modern enough, so some things have slipped through. In the end, just to end it, you really don't know, if Serbia doesn't solve its security issue, if it doesn't solve its security integration issue, I'm asking you a question, you haven't explained here, do you think Russia will be a guarantee of Serbia's security? I think such a concept that has forced you to practically avoid the issue of security integration as part of Serbia's closer and membership into the EU, which is NATO's way of saying, that this is one concession to Russia, which, I think, puts us in a very insecure situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27091	Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27092	I hope I won't offend you if I say you don't have an understanding of the spirit of the whole strategy. You've had some facts, which exist, but it just doesn't process the strategy that gave rise to sanctions. We're interested in the consequences of the sanctions. As a result of the sanctions, it is something that the Strategy as such does not deal with as a topic. That's right. You ask what extreme religious groups are problematic in Serbia. There is currently a trial in the Special Court for a group, which is, in the context of extreme, terrorist circumstances, and you are also attacking when an extreme, even Orthodox, group attacks some other people, simply, all extreme groups that want to bring unrest, instability, fear, etc. On the other hand, you said Serbia was involved in the war in Bosnia. Please don't bring such a thing to Parliament! Otherwise, Serbia is not involved in the war in Bosnia. There's a trial going on about it. I hope this trial doesn't burden us and our children. It is true that the schizophrenic situation is related to Kosovo and Metohija. It is true that certain countries have recognised Kosovo and Metohija within the borders they have made with a unilateral declaration of independence, but it is not true, even they have given up saying it is the biggest current security challenge in Europe. It is totally inappropriate to talk about it, if Germany has recognised Kosovo and Metohija, that Germany is relaxed on security, or destabilising security. Sunday you have planes that return illegal immigrants who have come to the EU without rights and who are going back to Pristina. I'm sorry that you weren't at the very beginning, we didn't analyze why and how something came about, but the consequences of what exists. Kosovo and Metohija are at this point the most insecure part of Europe, we wanted to admit it or not, love, dislike, and whoever recognised Kosovo and Metohija or not admit it, that's how it is. So, the highest degree of unemployment, corruption, organised crime, illegal migration, sextrafficking, proliferation of weapons, all that one civil society should fight, that this thing doesn't expand further, you are now saying it's all irrelevant because the EU countries have recognised it. Again, in November 2002, there was a major conference in London on organised crime in Southeast Europe, all those who have now confessed said then that the biggest problem comes from Kosovo and Metohija. So, it's not about whether we love, we don't love, whether we're in love, we're not in love, simply, we've got a document saying it's our problem. The way it came about, it's another thing now. I'm glad now that he looks old-fashioned to you, your colleagues from the Progressive Party seem modern, he's a little short on foreign words, he's got extra foreign words. I also said that I expect that we are having a debate in Parliament about something where we probably won't all agree, but there are simply things that are used in terminology everywhere in the world, including us. It's not true, it's not the same "non-secure" and "state security", national security and national security -- it's not the same. Whoever's teasing and saying it's true, that's not true. I'm sorry they didn't get a chance to learn English in time, because in the old days they obviously can't understand the best. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27093	Mrs. Vesna Pesic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27094	I just wanted to say when I was talking about the religious sects that you've brought here that I'm aware that you've properly cited national and religious extremism, which I've spoken about in public and who we've been exposed to very often, and now almost because of that "courage of pride," but I've looked back on one destructive action. Really, I don't know how much it is to mention in the national security strategy some kind of cult. I don't know what percentage, zero comas I don't know, and there are small religious communities, especially Protestants, who here out of misunderstanding people call sects, and Protestants have the right to interpret the free Bible and then form Methodists, Baptists, because they don't have any central church. That's why we're constantly exposed to this kind of harassment, and that's why I reacted, especially because it's so small, it's percentageally insignificant. In America, you have huge cults, no one will make it a threat to the national security of the United States, and cults, religious sects, that don't even exist in us, are causing these possibilities. So that's all I was talking about, and I didn't think there was room for it, that it was exaggeration and that it could be arranged, that it could be thrown out. I totally agree when it comes to religious impatience, I didn't look back at it at all. In addition, I did not look back on my main argument that Serbia's security is not assured that you have avoided saying that Serbia, in due course, together with stepping towards Europe should enter security integration with NATO, where all its neighbours are, and that we are left with one security hole and, ultimately, completely insecure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27095	Mr. Sutanovac, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27096	Very briefly, with really good intentions, we put out here which are potential risks, threats and, let me say, challenges. We didn't get into whether it was a small group of people who could cause a big problem or a big group of people who could make a little problem. Simply, these problems as such exist and we want them to be listed and clearly defined in this document. As far as NATO integration is concerned, I don't know where you got the information and who told you that someone conditioned us by entering NATO, then entering the European Union. Simply, given the circumstances, with the position I am in, I have spoken to people who are very influential in NATO itself, and among the countries that decide on it, and no one has yet put or placed that account before us. So there's no reason to worry about it. What is a fact, it is that as early as 1996, we became partners with NATO in the Partnership for Peace programme, unfortunately, we have not yet opened up full capacity within the Brussels office, and that several weeks ago, on a proposal from the Foreign Ministry, we appointed the first ambassador, so we made a step towards the past time. We expect to form an office very quickly and begin to benefit and benefit the benefits of the benefits of all the countries that are members of this Partnership for Peace.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27097	Mr. Konstantin Samofalov has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27098	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly I would like to welcome this debate and the fact that these two strategic documents are normally rounding up the process of reforming the defence system. As the minister said, the government has already adopted a strategic defence review and this is one very positive thing. True, it is better that we received these documents years ago and then entered the process of reforming the Army, but because of objective circumstances it was not possible and this Ministry's leadership deserves one recognition for what we are getting and all necessary strategic documents. Also, I would like to commend the public debate the Ministry held at the end of the last year. It was attended by representatives and state institutions and NGOs, members of the academic community, experts. I had the opportunity and personally to participate in some of them. I think they were very high-quality, and that shows that this ministry is ready to work in a completely open way. As has already been said, the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia is the most important strategic document setting out the fundamentals of security policy on the protection of national interests and its starting points are the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, then, economic prosperity, social stability, the development of democracy and the rule of law, respect for human and minority rights, European foreign policy orientation and co-operation with the most influential entities of the international community, and what I consider to be particularly significant, regional co-operation. The strategy analyses the environment of the Republic of Serbia, primarily the global environment. The environments that contribute to the growing number of security challenges at global level are firstly large differences in the degree of economic and cultural development, leading to poverty and the social threat of parts of the population, and hence to negative demographic and psychosocial phenomena. There are also regional local conflicts, religious and ethnic extremism, as already mentioned, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, terrorism, organised crime, illegal migration, climate change, and then, energy resource deficits, all of which endangers the security and stability of certain countries of the region and global security. In that sense, I really cannot agree with the comment that the conclusion in the Strategy that security is indivisible is some kind of nonsense. These are confirmations that security is indivisible, because these challenges today are completely unpredictable, asymmetric and truly transnational. No country in the world, nor Serbia as a small country, can fight them alone. The best way to find an answer is to combine the security capacities of the states. Also, this strategy finds progress in the area of common European security and defence policy and highlights Europe's growing role in this area. It has been mentioned that it is, for example, Eufor in Bosnia and Herzegovina or, for example, the European Union forces that are engaged on the far shores of Somalia. This will be important for Serbia especially when we become an EU member, because then we will be part of this European defence policy security system. When we talk about a regional environment, I would refer to the geostrategic position of the Southeast European region. It is very specific, through it cross energy and telecommunications routes linking Europe's most significant countries with regions and Caucasus, and the Middle East, and the Caspian Baseline, and the Mediterranean, and this particular region directly affects the security of the most developed European countries, but has the potential to become part of a stable European security architecture. A colleague of Shormaz mentioned "Nabuko." After last year's gas crisis that affected us when we had to get help from Hungary, when we had to provide assistance to Bosnia and Herzegovina, it became clear that both routes and sources of supply to this strategic energy must be diversified. And I think that for Serbia as an energy corridor, which is optimal for the construction of energy infrastructure and as one hub connecting Central Europe with the Caspian Base and Middle East, it is useful to have as many of these initiatives as possible, therefore, not only 'Nabuko', not only the South Stream, but even if there are other initiatives, it is more useful for Serbia. What is a threat to the security of Southeast Europe is, of course, potential conflicts over the use of those transit routes and the availability of these resources that can endanger this region, but also the separatist aspirations. Here we have a situation with the illegal unilateral declaration of independence of KIM, there are problems and terrorism and organised crime, corruption, drug trafficking, weapons, human trafficking, but not an adequate solution to the problems of refugees, exiled and internally displaced persons in the area of the former Yugoslavia. This document identifies challenges and risks, threats to our country's security. So, the danger of armed rebellion, as I said separatist aspirations, the danger of armed aggression, the spread of weapons of mass destruction, a global problem of national religious extremism, economic development problems, the uncontrolled use of natural resources, but also of unbalanced economic and demographic development. So demographics is a question that affects all countries in Europe. A question that particularly affects our region and especially our country. We lose, as far as I know, about 30,000 inhabitants every year. It's a serious security issue that we're going to have to face seriously in the future. The strategy, of course, also sets out national interests, which are protected by national values, and these are: the preservation of sovereignty and territorial integrity, the preservation of internal stability, the rule of law, the development of democracy and European integration. When we talk about European integration, it is doubtless that Serbia will align its foreign and security policy to the greatest extent with the EU's functions and positions. On the other hand, the Strategy also mentions NATO programme – Partnership for Peace. By joining the Partnership for Peace, Serbia has confirmed its long-term commitment, to contribute to common democratic values and to contribute to regional and global security. The strategy also stresses that the national security system is under democratic and civilian control. This is for our Parliament, for our Committee on Defence and Security of particular importance. As far as the Defence Strategy is concerned, it is a key strategic document in the area of defence based on the Constitution, the National Security Strategy and which is intended for all of our citizens and state bodies. The vital defence interests of Serbia are: preserving sovereignty, independence, protecting the security of citizens, building trust, improving stability in the region and co-operation with other, different international and security organisations. Serbia's defence policy is based on strengthening our own defence capacities, co-operation with democratic and peaceful states and European foreign policy orientation, but also on the willingness to actively participate in joint action and co-operation processes with other countries and international relations entities in the construction of national, regional and global security. The main objectives of the defence policy are – an effective defence system, then, peace and integration into European and other international and security structures, but in the Partnership for Peace programme. It is also said that Serbia is ready to protect its defence interests by preventing an effective defence system, building a reliable partnership, and by working together to build a favourable security environment and a decisive defence of the country, with its own capacities, but with the help of partners and allies, and by participating in multinational operations. As for these operations that have been mentioned several times today, I really welcome the decision of this parliament, as of June this year, to refer a synthetic team within the 'Norway Contigence' to the UN peace mission in Chad and the Central African Republic. It is now the fourth mission in which members of our army participate, alongside those in Liberia, the Ivory Coast and the Congo. I will remind you that our country has a great tradition of participation in these missions. Remember all the Sinais from the 50s and 60s, when the 'Yugoslavi contigent' was the most numerous of all. More than 14,000 people went through it, and our forces then accounted for over 20% of the total peace force. Therefore, this is a very positive thing, to mention Serbia's insistence on contributing to global security in the multi-stakeholder strategies. It is very good that we have in the procedure and the law on the use of the Serbian Army in multinational operations. Also, the Strategy defines defence system entities, as well as the missions of the Serbian Army. These are defences, of course, from the armed association outside and, as I said, the contribution of building peace and security in both the region and the world through these multinational operations. Therefore, today we are discussing strategies that will be adopted for the first time in the Republic Parliament. They are one starting basis for what lies ahead. It is very important that today we define our goals and interests in the years to come. We will certainly have the opportunity to build on these two strategies, under the circumstances that are changing. Taking into account the importance of these two strategies, I call on representatives of all parties, regardless of their political orientation, to support these proposals. The representatives of the ZES coalition will certainly do so. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27099	Thank you, Mr. Samofalov. Right on the line, Mr. Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27100	I'm directly mentioned, that this is not a misreading, I know that Mr. Samofalov did not have a bad intention. He and I have excellent co-operation within the Committee on Defence and Security, but in a number of calls. But, to be clear, often the Democratic Party of Serbia, recently on a daily basis, is burdened that it is against joining the EU, which is incorrect, the Democratic Party of Serbia is for European integration. There is only one thing we insist on being resolved in EU and Serbian relations before the decision to join the EU is the issue of AP Kosovo and Metohija. That's what we insist on, and we'll always insist on it. As for European standards and everything else that needs to be done in the country, it never prevents it, we have worked on it and we will work on it in the future. Also, it's a misreading, and it might turn out that because I said that Nabucco is just a word, the DSS versus Nabucco. That's not true. "Nabuco" is just a word, that's a statement. "Nubuko" is just a word, there's no source. You don't know where to buy gas from. Turkmenistan sells 50% of its production to China, 50% of "Gaspromneft". Azerbaijan 100% "Gaspromneft", Kazakhstan 100% "Gaspromneft". You don't know who would build it, whether it'd be built by states, whether it'd be built by companies. You don't know which way to go, you don't know who's going to secure a route from terrorists, Taliban, etc. None of it's been solved. Recently, as a representative of this parliament, I was in Kazakhstan, which was discussed in the framework of the NATO Pact parliamentary assembly, which was the topic. There's been a lot of talk about it. These were people from EU Member States. What I'm saying is not something I came up with. It's what the English said, the Germans, the French. In fact, the Germans and the Italians don't speak anymore, because they solved the issue to the North and South. So it's true that we should also be able to get involved in everything, but it doesn't exist. There's only North and South Stream, there's only co-operation with Russia. But what I was about to say, and I'm going to end it, it's rude for this strategy to say that we should build only on this basis good co-operation with Russia, as if we don't have traditionally good relations much longer than, say, with the United States. Well, the strategy says only one sentence about relations with Russia, and one five-six on relations with the United States. That was the point of what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27101	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27102	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, Mr Minister, there is no doubt that such a document as the National Security Strategy in each Parliament is an event and calls for serious debates on national objectives, national values and, of course, in a number of countries where such discussions are being conducted, national consensus on national values and national objectives is also being reached. Although the minister himself said that there is no consensus, this is the opportunity to talk about all the dilemmas that exist in the public, between various political entities, and to try to install in one such document what should be the basis of our national security, it is quite certain to discuss the implementation and implementation of all these objectives defined here. In one part of the discussion, it was said that this was not a political document, that we should focus not on political issues, but only on security issues. This is a political document of a couple of excellencies, because here many political issues are defined and processed. Before I move on to the debate and make fundamental remarks, there's only one thing I want to say. In our opinion, it was better to separate the debate on the National Security Strategy from the debate on the Defence Strategy. There is an impression that the National Security Strategy, due to the presence of the defence minister, exclusively has the military aspect, which it does not have. Perhaps it was better that only the debate on the National Security Strategy was held and that the Prime Minister was present here, perhaps the President of the Republic, who is the President of the National Security Council, and that the whole debate on such an important issue should be raised to a higher level. In addition, we could certainly hear some dimensions about how this strategy is implemented, because, as I said, it is not only the Ministry of Defence that needs to implement this strategy, there are a number of ministries and state bodies here, and this is a serious document that should cover a series of sectors and a series of policies that would have a national security policy in their collection. The dilemmas and problems that exist in this document are many. There are many contradictions, but I think there is also a lack of coordination in those sectors that have been defined here and given their solutions to certain national security issues. Of course, this is a political document because it is determined on the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, on the issue of European integration, on the issue of the NATO Pact, on the issue of foreign policy, relations with the Russian Federation, the United States, other major forces, countries in the environment, according to an international agreement such as the Dayton Agreement and a series of other issues. It's politics, and it's certainly political factors that have helped to define these things this way. As far as relations with the global environment are concerned, I can say that a number of real issues have been touched in this document itself. There is globalisation about a number of things, such as security, economics, environmental protection and, in that sense, it cannot be said that security cannot be indivisible. The problem is that all these issues, when they move to the policy sector, are defined differently. We will come from Kosovo and Metohija. It is quite justified here that the unilateral declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija poses a threat. It certainly poses a threat to state subjectivity and territorial integrity, poses a threat to everyone in Southeast Europe. Then it goes on to process what segments currently exist in Kosovo and pose a threat. One of these is the application of Ahtisaari's plan. That's what it says here. We are now entering the key contradiction in which this government is located. Who's applying Ahtisaari's plan? It's applied by Eulex. Who brought Eulex to Serbia? The government of the Republic of Serbia, which here defines that the application of Ahtisaari's plan is a threat to the security of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, this thing acts only as a parole, and in practice, the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is something else entirely. The threat is Ahtisaari's plan, but Ahtisaari's plan is being implemented by EULEX, and EULEX has been brought by the government of the Republic of Serbia. According to the NATO Pact, we have a parliamentary resolution here, several times in the National Assembly, it has been demonstrated that on 26 December 2007, a parliamentary resolution declaring the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia was passed. It was normal to expect that the government of the Republic of Serbia, chosen by this parliament, would install this military neutrality into its strategic document, even if it were to move on – to define a policy of military neutrality. As far as I know, the National Assembly didn't put that decision out of effect. It just says that the government of the Republic of Serbia does not want to implement that resolution and that this resolution, as someone here said, is probably the most sincere thing he thought, in fact, the position of these political parties was pragmatic according to one election moment, not the long-term commitment of the Serbian state, nor their policy. We voted for military neutrality back then, and we're actually a NATO pact. Approximately, what a representative of a government political party said is likely also the position of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Then that's what you have to say, and then there's the clean stuff. In this way, it is silenced and we are not in a position to clearly and concretely respond to what the government of the Republic of Serbia is, but hides it from the public's eyes. As for the relationship with the Russian Federation, not only the Russian Federation but all the great powers, I have the impression that there has been a serious absence of coordination between the Ministry of Defence, which was done by this document, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because for days we have been listening to the story of four pillars of foreign policy. I just want to read what the Strategy says, because the pillars of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia are: the EU, Washington, Moscow and China. Here it says: "The Republic of Serbia will continue to pay special attention to deepening close ties with the People's Republic of China, India, Brazil and other countries. "We did not see from this part of the text in the Strategy that China is a special pillar of foreign policy, but it is classified in a number of other significant and less significant countries. In that sense, when the Strategy was written, it was necessary to agree, if this is the need of this government, that China is one of the pillars, and then other countries could be listed. As far as relations with the Russian Federation are concerned, he's been potent around here more than once. I just want to say that there is an impression that there is no strategic concept in this development. In addition to deepening the partnership in the field of energy, it binds itself exclusively to our European integration. We will build relations with the Russian Federation and they will deepen by being more and more on the path of European integration. It's really not clear, and anyone who reads this text stays confused. As far as relations with the EU are concerned - why do I say this is a political document? Because most of the time, pro-European politics is potent. It's this government's policy and it's one legitimate position. However, in light of this strategy, we have one view: "The pro-European political orientation of the Republic of Serbia reflects positively on its security". Now we're talking about the Eulex presence. I would like to say has the Government of the Republic of Serbia assessed any security risks in its policy segment as well? The presence of EULEX in Kosovo is certainly not something that contributes to the security of the Republic of Serbia. Eulex, as we know, is a mission sent by the EU and accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We are exposed to different types of pressure from the EU, when it comes to further European integration and this new announcement, I believe that the Minister and representatives of the ministries know that the European Commission will include in its new report the issues of adopting the Vojvodina Statutes as a problem matter – why the National Assembly has not brought the Vojvodina Statute so far. This issue is slowly beginning to stand out outside the constitutional frameworks of the Republic of Serbia and to gain its wider dimension. I would like to hear whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia considers such an attitude a possible threat to security, as such attitudes will surely produce certain consequences in Serbia. As regards another aspect of security, which is mentioned in the Strategy and it is important to mention it, that is, as regards our policies, policies of individual sectors and ministries within the government. Now the question is, how do you protect the security of individual policies? It says, "The national interest is to strengthen institutions." We are witnessing that institutions are being abolished, courts in municipalities, school terminations are being announced, maybe health homes. The issue is developing democracies – for months we hear whether they are good for democracy to amend the Information Law. Certainly not, but they are a step back in the development of democratic processes in Serbia. Demography – a very important issue is regional development. It's a good thing it's potent here, because it's a serious threat to Serbia's security. But if you abolish courts in small municipalities, schools, Serbia, if infrastructure issues are not resolved, that is the government's policy, because institutions are being abolished, then the question is – how can the problem of unbalanced development be solved and how can demographic policy be resolved? The representatives of the ministry probably know this, but it is certainly worrying for national security, that in the border municipalities, from northern Banat, Novi Crnja, Senti, White Church, Majdanpek, Presevo, Bosilegrad, Medvedji, Tutina, Shop, Prijepolje, Pazar, Priboj, Bujanovac, Mali Zvornik, Dimitrovgrad, Babušnica, a huge demographic decline has been recorded, that these municipalities are the most underdeveloped, that a large depopulation is in those communities. With encouraging information that a growing number of people serving the military, the question is, in a perspective, how, if these parts of our country are not seriously approached by this problem, the demographic policy of regional development will be further resolved. Over 22 Serbia's districts have negative natural growth. This is a serious issue for national security, and I believe that the government's representatives, probably some future government, might be dealing with it. The issue of the economy - we have layoffs of workers, notices of layoffs. Big social earthquakes are possible. What can they do to cause national security? I'm saying it was caused by the government's measures. These are all issues which, as a whole, leave doubt whether in such a document, along with the part relating to both the global environment and a kind of threat to society concerning demographic development, and also, I agree, it was necessary to include in this document questions with extremist groups and religious organisations, so to be honest, whether it is possible to implement all this in this document at all. When it comes to national values, general civilization values have been counted and that is something that is not controversial, but we should have said that we are protecting family and family values. How are we going to fight negative demographics and even the problem of demographics if we don't protect our family and defend our family values? It was supposed to stand for value – patriotism, no matter what someone wanted to show it in a negative context. Patriotism is a value that must be defended and should be defined as a goal to be achieved. In any case, many open issues related to these major topics, and especially to the NATO Pact, are something that remains unsaid in this document. It was said at one point in the discussion that it is not true that major forces, including Russia, do not co-operate with the NATO pact. No one was talking about non-cooperation. We're talking about how we define a NATO pact in terms of security. Is that good for us? I believe the minister has read the Russian Federation Security Strategy. No one argues that the Russian Federation is in the Partnership for Peace, but how it defined NATO's pact in its strategy. We didn't define him as a threat here. Maybe the government's representatives think he's a threat, so we'll solve the threat by entering them, and that's what we have to say. The best solution is to open the issue as a topic – to call a referendum, to have citizens say, and to remove all the dilemmas we have heard in Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27103	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27104	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman-in-Office, respected presidency, respected ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry have proposed and forwarded to the Republic of Parliament for adoption and consideration of the Strategy for Defence of the Republic of Serbia. The defence strategy, as said several times, is one of the country's most important documents, and Serbia became independent, independent and sovereign after many years. The Republic of Serbia is not such a large country in the Balkans, but through the centuries it has had a strong army and celebrated officers and should certainly always be kept in mind. Wars have ended on the premises of the former Yugoslavia and it is perfectly logical that the participating states, an independent state, are looking for a place under the sun, strong allies both in military and economic terms. Serbia is geopolitically in a place where many roads to the East and the Middle East, for which destinations are both interested in America and most European countries. If the interests are at stake, there is no love and true friendship, so we should plan, among other things, a strategy. The proposal for a defence strategy is good and, as has been said in today's debate, will have the support of the SPS-JS Parliament Club. The policymakers proposed one thing, I would say, a realistic view of our situation, which is to create as many allies as possible of friendly countries in the world. It took a long time to convince some countries that we are not savages from the Balkans who would only war. Major challenges lie ahead of the Republic of Serbia due to an environment where several states were created. Expectations are high. Everyone expected a lot from the wars themselves. The foreign policy orientation, which has been so much said today, and the strategic definition of Serbia is quite clear – we want strategic relations with both the East and the West, America and Russia, China and non-classified countries. During today's debate on the Strategy several times so far, the NATO Pact and some European institutions have been mentioned. The question arises – why do we not mention the other institutions when it comes to the Strategy. In doing so, I would like to say that the relationship between the SPS, the MP's club I belong to, on the issue of the NATO Pact, is quite clear. Serbia's security is at risk, as stated in the strategy, intelligence, genetic engineering, organised crime, and with such a finding, we can fully agree. Serbia's defence interests are: preserving sovereignty, i.e. territorial integrity and state sovereignty. I am convinced that the topic relating to the question that I will ask far above us, that is, that is, the distant past, is something that will never happen to Serbia again, but I want to ask – are we ready for military and economic action if the price of peace is high? You can't see it in this strategy and you can't see it. In order for a country to be ready to defend itself surely must have much more than we have today in both military and economic terms. The country is in transition, many times said, many companies are in bankruptcy, many companies have failedly been privatized and many have failed. Serbia's military, to say the least, has problems with a technique that has not been adequately arranged, it seems to me, since 1984, and since then there have been wars and there is unfortunately no financial resources. I am convinced that Serbia's integration into international institutions and as the ultimate goal of EU accession would greatly facilitate our security positions. On the other hand, without a strong economy, that is, among other things today, there is neither a strong state nor an army. The defence strategy is very good and needs to be adopted, although it can be improved by amendments if there is room, especially with respect to what we want and what we can do. The strategy should be adopted by consensus of all relevant political actors, at least because we are changing strategies less by ministers. If every minister proposes a new strategy, I don't think it'll work. Security in Europe, including Serbia, is being improved after the establishment of co-operation between America and Russia, i.e. giving up the installation of an anti-missile shield, although the idea can be realised from the moment the economic crisis is over. It would be high time for Serbia to decide which reforms the military will go to. If this is a professional composition, the strategy should be adopted accordingly. In addition to the overall economy, an important segment, and I especially want to point out, is the dedicated production, which is starting to recover, although technological processes are outdated, the programmes are obsolete, and they need to be innovated or purchased licenses of more advanced countries. When it comes to the Security Strategy, the legal aspect of the Security Strategy is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the law of the Republic of Serbia. From an economic point of view, it seems to me that the financial structure for this exceptional, I would say, a decent strategy is not realistic, because the question arises – whether the figures are well collected and whether with this budget, which is decent for our country, will be able to finance the strategy and reform of the military, which are expecting us, and the renewal that I mentioned, serious techniques. In the National Security Strategy, it is mostly the same content as in the Defence Strategy, which is normal because both strategies are very important and dependent on the same factors. In order for one country to be safe enough, it is necessary to reduce security risks, which is what the leadership of this country does. The security environment is quite complicated and we heard about it during today's debate. The problems with KIM are very big, national impatience, the insecure life of the non-Albanian population, drug trafficking and trafficking in human beings and weapons, all of which makes a negative security environment, and it seems to me that we are all in agreement today. In KIM territory, several terrorist groups need to be controlled, and these terrorist groups are just the result of a unilateral declaration of KIM independence. The BiH population, on the other hand, is unsatisfactory with the Dayton Agreement, and we can expect some turbulence, which should be prevented from being prevented, because we are a guarantee of security. At the wider areas of Southeast Europe, the situation, I would say, is significantly improved, although some republics of the former Soviet Union can be a security risk in the future, especially because of the passage of energy from the zone, and large countries in search of energy pools can make a war of wider proportions. It's positive that many nuclear forces are negotiating nuclear disarmament, but I think it's very dishonest. The Security Strategy came more realistically, from a more realistic perspective, on co-operation with Russia, China, India, non-classified countries, while in the Defence Strategy they were not mentioned, but I suppose that's what it means. In order for the state of Serbia to be ready to act preventively, it must adequately respond to the new weather, which is the creation or renewal of VBA, in co-operation with the intelligence of the MUP, in order to be able to exchange information on regional security risks such as, among other things, CIA and MOSAD and BND, etc. A major security risk for Serbia is the increasing dropouts of hooligans that can cause major damage to Serbia's political position in the world. For Serbia's national security, human resources, trained personnel and high-moral people are much more important. So, to develop your own means of defense, so they don't depend on others. The reform of the military and strategies on defence and security should create such a system that will guarantee the security of the state and the citizens. The military needs to be efficient, well-technically equipped, security services need civilian control, but there must still be something that can be defined as a military secret. Serious security jobs should be left to professionals, not political analysts. I think the role of the National Security Council should play a key role as co-ordinator of the Security Service of the Army and the Police. And finally, I want to say that the second legislative proposal will have the support of the SPS-JS Parliament Club. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27105	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word is Mr. Mirko Chikiriz. Excuse me, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27106	Just for a little while. I was waiting for Mr. Palalic to return. We do not think that countries in the environment are hostile to Serbia, whether they are in NATO or not. If we put them in the context of enmity, then we would put them in the context of hostility, let's say, and a country that doesn't recognise KIM, which is Romania, so that if I'm wronged, I apologize, the animosity that you've brought out simply doesn't exist. What is happening in the world today while we are here talking about the National Security Strategy, which is to quote the Rogoznicas, the 'no precedent in the relations between Russia and NATO', means today it is agreed that Russia and NATO will approach a common analysis of security threats in the Euro-Atlantic region. We are having a debate here today and you are talking about the public that in their national security strategy Russia has something concrete against NATO and treats them as its enemies, and they have today agreed on a historic shift, that NATO Secretary-General should visit Russia by the end of this year. So, at all, this kind of phobia that's being displayed here, and we didn't deliberately deal with NATO because we knew it would cause interest, there's no need to exist. It would be fair and correct to say, a little while ago we were talking about Nabucco, we're talking about South Stream, we're talking about where the gas comes from, where will the gas come from in Serbia? Will gas come to Serbia from some NATO country, EU countries or another country? And that thing, when we talk about energy stability and security, when we talk about the source, but let's see how we're going to get that gas. I understand that you have some resistance against it, which I'm saying now, but simply, it's a fact. So we didn't want to put anyone in the context of hostility, because we don't have the experience of that kind of backwards for a certain number of years.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27107	Mr. Palalic, replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27108	I'm reporting because I'm misread. I wasn't talking about countries in the environment as threats, I was talking about the NATO Pact as a military organisation. I was talking about threats, as I said, when it comes to the National Security Strategy, about what I read in the strategy written by the Russian Federation, because they are not talking about enmity, but about threats, about spreading the NATO Pact as a threat, I was very specific, not about the absence of co-operation. We are in the Partnership for Peace, and that implies a certain co-operation. But you must determine what this military organisation represents for the state of Serbia – whether it is a chance or a threat. We don't see it from this at all if we want to. If your policy is to go to the NATO Pact, that's what we have to say - we're going to the NATO Pact! Is he a threat because he is in Kosovo, because he has a Bondsteel base in Kosovo? Is that a threat to the state of Serbia? That's the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27109	The question you have now raised – whether NATO is a chance or a threat, we have considered another November 2006. By joining the Partnership for Peace programme with NATO, we have defined that NATO is our chance. You entered the Partnership for Peace because it was a threat? I'd like you to explain. So for us, NATO's Partnership for Peace programme was a chance, such as today's chance for a large number of non-NATO countries. What makes us different from that organization? Today, simply, all the countries of Europe that are not in NATO alone are in the Partnership for Peace, including the famous Russia, which you mention all day here, even though it is not a topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27111	Mr. Minister, as you know, you were in that government, it happened February 17th. On February 17th 2008, there was a unilateral recognition of Kosovo's independence, and then a series of recognitions by the countries and what role NATO's pact plays in it. I remind you that the Ahtisaari plan itself defined that NATO's pact would be the key, supreme, authority of the KIM government. This happened after Serbia joined the Partnership for Peace in 2006, as far as I know chronology, without saying what these people mean, the NATO Pact units are doing down there, what is the relationship to Kosovo's security services and everything you know. So there's no need for me to remind you of that, when it comes to the NATO pact's relationship with this false creation, such as Kosovo. Circumstances have changed. If you say so - there's no change in circumstances, then it's something else. We believe that the circumstances have changed, that the NATO Pact has participated in the creation and encouraged the creation of an independent state of Kosovo, and that it has supported the institutions that act there, who have done so. That's what happened after 2006.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27112	Mr. Mirko Chikiriz has his word, please. You must re-apply, Mr. Chiquiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27113	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, the Honorable Associates of Mr. Minister, the one who monitors the processes, and when you say defence and security, our citizen usually thinks about the army. Of course, today's distinguished colleagues have said a lot that all institutions, both economies and social policy, both internal and foreign policy, and foreign security policy, influence the security of one country, but whoever follows what the Serbian Army has done in the internal reform processes since 2000 must note that one institution, which has always, somehow, at the time of ideological acuity, followed a sign that it has ideologically, that it has yet made perhaps the most significant reform moves of all our institutions, that it has significantly integrated into international security structures and that, by doing so today, our country's security position at a significantly higher level compared to the period of 2000. Why is that? Simply because of what these two strategies offer. We, 20 years ago, at the time of the destruction of the Berlin Wall, had no ear for what was happening in Europe, did not understand what it means when a great Soviet creation was withdrawn from the countries of the Eastern bloc, we did not understand what it means when Germany was united, we did not understand the process of EU integration and we did not understand what Euro-Atlantic integration meant for Serbia at that time. Serbia has paid a huge price for this misunderstanding, and I, as vice president of the Serbian Renewal Movement, belong to those who were speaking to the deaf at the time. However, today I have listened carefully to all respected colleagues, the quality of the discussion has been surprisingly high and what I particularly liked and what I will potential, that is, that some of the topics that may have been sufficiently elaborated in these strategies, which are announced and will certainly be topics that we will discuss in this parliament in the near future, is that, should Serbia remain a military neutral country, what benefit for Serbia's security has from military neutrality, should Serbia be a member of the NATO Pact? If he is a member of the NATO Pact, will it benefit him or her, and will the situation of our country be better, not only economically, but also in a safe way? Let's take a look around. This strategy fully elaborates, respects and respects it in a proper and valid way. Serbia is now an island among neighbouring countries that are members of the NATO Pact. There, of course, I don't count Macedonia because of the fact that there is opposition to Greece's entry into the NATO pact. But we also know what Serbia's majority mood is today. Because of negative emotions, because of the bombing against all the international standards implemented by the NATO Pact only 10 years ago, it is now 30% of Serbia's population that our country joins the NATO Pact. Most of the mood is based above all, it seems to us, on emotion, but also on the fact that today in Serbia, even in this House, we do not have an open debate on what, first of all, the NATO alliance and what benefits, I say, first of all, our country would have from joining such an alliance. It should be said that NATO is an alliance of sovereign states. If you sign one contract with another international organisation, it means you sign it as a sovereign state and sign it at your own free will, assessing it's in your national interest. All decisions in the NATO Pact are made by consensus, which means that, for example, 10 years ago, we were members of the NATO Pact, we could not vote for our own bombing, of course, and today we would have a different situation, as far as KIM's position is concerned. NATO is an alliance of democratic states that respect fully the standards of internal democratic order. When I talked about the fact that the Serbian Army has largely strayed in a positive sense in these reform processes, I forgot to say that it is my assessment because of three important facts: because of professionalism, because the Army has maintained, compared to other institutions, high standards, and because of the prominent patriotism that Serbian military members have always shown, and especially at these most difficult moments in 1999. The NATO Pact is said to have, most often, an idea that it is primarily a military alliance. No, NATO pact is a military political alliance, but a dominant political alliance and alliance that we live in is not only about military politics and the preservation of peace or intervention in the world, but also about fighting terrorism, the fight against natural and technical disasters, against global pandemics, against modern piratery, we have an example in Somalia. NATO Pact summits are held twice a year and always with the presence of heads of government and member states of the NATO Pact. The NATO Pact has, or members of the NATO Pact, permanent ambassadors in Brussels, which means that there are daily consultations and communication. NATO's military structure is controlled by a civilian structure. If we do a survey among Serbian citizens today, there is a preconception that NATO has an army of its own. No, NATO doesn't have its own army. The NATO Pact is made up of armies of member states, and if there is no consensus on intervention, let's say, as we had an example in Iraq, then the United States was left alone and it wasn't the intervention of the NATO Pact, it was the intervention of America and its allies. Does NATO have a perspective? We've often heard about the NATO pact falling apart, that there are disagreements, etc. No, the NATO Pact has a perspective, it won't fall apart, and there are conflicting interests that are being resolved, I think, in the best possible way, and I'm going to repeat it once more - by consensus. This assembly voted in favour of the Declaration of Military Neutrality. We meet military neutrality after World War II only in a few countries, and we seem to need, for the sake of, above all, Serbian citizens, to say that military neutrality, that in international law would have its full meaning and its full meaning should be confirmed by international contracts. Our military neutrality is, to say the one-sided act which we are not recognised under the rules of international law by those international institutions or countries that should recognise your military neutrality, and if they did, they would do so under certain conditions. Military neutrality is expensive because you're funding your own defense system. Military neutrality means that tomorrow if someone attacks you alone, because you said you didn't need allies, that you didn't need anyone, that you could take care of yourself, and military neutrality is something that today in the world rarely the state, like Switzerland, can afford, but there is a preconception that Switzerland doesn't have an army. It's not fluent, Switzerland has an army, has an extremely well-organized defense system and Switzerland, if I'm not mistaken, after World War II, has shot down above its skies to protect its territorial integrity, I think, 26 or 27 planes. Will we, by joining the NATO Pact, benefit more economically? It is certain that we will because foreign investors will invest first and foremost where it is safer. Would they rather invest in military neutral countries? We don't think that's gonna be the case. Are we not going to the NATO Pact because we were bombed 10 years ago? If that is the reason, then we should not go to the EU either, as the largest number of NATO member states are also EU members. These are: Italy, Spain, France, Germany, etc. What did the other countries do? Just now, entering the NATO Pact was a ticket to the EU. It seems to me that both of these strategies leave room for these thoughts, or perhaps, tomorrow, to change the strategy or to adopt some new resolution in the National Assembly, we cannot be against the NATO Pact and the EU at the same time. If NATO is a criminal organization pact, which is a deficient understanding in our country, then we cannot be neutral to criminals. The criminals need to be dealt with. Do we have the strength and potential to deal with such criminals and what a strategic interest it would be to deal with such criminals, the SPO doesn't see it. It is necessary, for the sake of the public, to say that since its establishment, the SPO considers that the country, the church and the family are being defended under all circumstances. That's how we acted in 1999, so we'd be in a similar situation again. These two strategies, in the mood of parliament, will certainly be adopted. If, not only our army, not just our government, but all our state institutions are thinking the way these two strategies think, Serbia seems to have a good not only security perspective but, above all, an economic perspective. The Balkans are waiting for many more unresolved issues, from the issue of Republika Srpska, the Bosnian Federation to Kosovo and Metohija. It seems to us that if we're where it's going to be, that we can influence more than if we're in places where it doesn't decide, pretending we don't care. In the end, I'd like to say, I'm surprised as a representative of a relatively younger generation when I hear from senior politicians that there is an interest in international relations, not emotions. Whoever runs the country on the basis of emotion will surely take her to a stalemate. From 1990 to 2000, we were overwhelmed by emotion and experienced the greatest national disaster. It seems to me that Serbia's strategic interest is to join the NATO Pact, that it is our economic interest, that this is the best way to return to Kosovo and Metohija through the NATO Pact and the EU ticket. And it seems to us that because of this, the SPO is expected in the future to have a more serious debate on these topics, which I have partly raised, and we will vote with great satisfaction on these strategies. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27114	The word is Mr Boris Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27115	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to continue the story of the National Security Strategy. Let me get a few terms straight. This is where some concepts that are incompatible are mixed, one is 'euro-Atlantic', the other is 'euro-Asian'. The Euro-Asian concept is the concept of the Anglo-American axis and that is an undivided opinion in geopoliticals. It's dominated by London and Washington. The Euro-Asian concept is the concept of continental Europe and it, by nature of things, dominates Europe, but also the axis of Moscow, Paris, Berlin. It's not disputed, it's written by authors in the West, if you will, in Western Europe, the United States, Russia, anywhere. So, it doesn't need to be thrown, first. When it comes to the first chapter of this strategy that you have proposed, you have well noticed that there is a danger of a global economic crisis, but what do you say? "In the conditions of the global economy, the macroeconomic consequences of significant disturbances in the functioning of financial markets worldwide are reflected in the state of global security. The consequences of the global economic crisis can lead to the overcoming of the phasing-out interests... ''You probably had in mind that last crisis that began to develop in 2004, and it escalated with the collapse of the Lyman Brothers. The centres that caused this crisis can be very easily identified, they're so-called. The "hedge funds" that are located in the tax havens, the minister surely heard of those who are on the Cayman Islands, however, are much more important to those who are in the possession of Great Britain, so-called. "Independent crown possessions" located just off the coast of Great Britain, and one of those islands is Ma Island. These are the centers that led to the manipulation of financial derivatives, among other things "Hengers", "Fuchers" and "it" to the economic crisis. What is further said in this national security strategy under point 2. Regional environment, attitude 2. ''Inherited problems from the past, historical contradictions, as well as the consequences of the conflict of peoples and states in the area of Southeast Europe, and especially in the area of the Balkans, in recent history today, affect the state of security in the region. ''You've noticed this well, but you haven't found the main problem – the problem, who's responsible for the crime against peace. The crime against peace is the most serious crime under international law, it is also more severe than the crimes of genocide, because the crime of genocide stems from a crime against peace, it is more serious than crimes against humanity, it is also more serious than war crimes. If it wasn't for a crime against peace, there wouldn't be a war! It is undivided that the great forces of the West, creating a universal world, broke the SFRY, and we were all certainly witnesses that they had committed a brutal aggression on the SRJ in 1999, completely contrary to the UN Charter. Unfortunately for them, the world is now being created, some new giants are rising from the East, taking their place to take on the international stage. What do you say next in the National Security Strategy? Chapter 2. Challenges, risks and security threats. - Separatist aspirations. From the Separatist aspirations you mention only KiM. The KIM situation is generally clear, but we are not speaking from Serbian sources now, from Russian sources. Here, let's say for example. American and French sources. US expert Joseph Bodanski, who was the first man in Congress to fight terrorism, has repeatedly stated that Serbia is at risk not only from Kosovo and Metohija but also from the Raska area, and there is also a great danger of separatist aspirations in Vojvodina. So that's the story of a man who was the first congressman from 1998 to 2004. What does General Pierre Marie Galloa, who is a French expert, a man whose concept made the French Republic a great force, his "strategic deterrence". In his book "Employment of the people who always said no", you guess that it is about Serbs, he explicitly stated that separatist aspirations are strong in the Raška area, of course in KIM and also in Vojvodina. There is a great danger in Serbia. Now the question is, why can General Gallo say that, why can Joseph Bodanski say that and not say Minister Sutanovac and this government? On page 8, you are talking about terrorism: 'Terrorism is one of the greatest risks and threats to global, regional and national security. '"That's right, but that's what you're saying from the point of view and from the position of Washington, from the position of the NATO Pact. What terrorists are for the NATO Pact, for Eulex. Imagine, the leaders of the Serb north of Kosovo were declared terrorists?- I'm sorry. The prosecutor, Eulexa Nita Amin, filed one indictment against several leaders, including Milan Ivanovic, and accused him and others of terrorism. So, what for America terrorists aren't terrorists for Russia, for China. For Russia, terrorists are not terrorists to America. What's America doing? Joseph Bodansky was just saying that KIM is Al Qaeda's logistics base. He wrote that two assassins at the world trade centre of Muhammad Ata and Halid Sheikh Muhammad were trained in KIM, BiH, that they had their own units that fought against Serbs there. They spoke of a number of other terrorists, including a certain Safet Tzatovic, who was the first secretary of the BiH mission to the UN, from where the jihad camp was organised in Pennsylvania, where part of the terrorist attacks against New York and Washington were organised. However, there is data that this certain Safet Tzatovic, Alis Abu Mali, is coming from Republika Srpska by their experts, is being controlled and sheltered by Americans. This Abu El Mali carries one of his coded names El Fatih. For what? According to a Turkish Sultan who cut off the head of last Bosnian King Stefan Kokoromanic. From that moment on, i.e. Repeating the model, Muslims, Islamic terrorists first began to cut off heads in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Only later did the example spread to Iraq, Afghanistan, etc. Of course, you can't write all this, and behind these people is probably the United States. their organisation in the Balkans. The question arises – which is why the United States does not want to expose and reveal to the end the truth about the people who organised September 11th, killed 3,000 US citizens who fought against Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition, the US Official Commission, Commission 9-11, has been formed to examine the circumstances under which these terrorist attacks took place, says Halid Sheikh Muhammad and Muhammad Ata participated in terrorist attacks on New York and Washington on 11 September. Furthermore, the national and religious extremism that you state in the next position, you did not pay attention to French and German data. The federal union of European ethnic groups is one organisation that comes from Germany, which promotes national and religious extremism throughout Europe. Their founders, gentlemen, were people who were involved in minority groups at the time of Adolf Hitler. You have heard well, French experts, General Pierre-Marie Gallo and German experts Walter von Goldendah and Hans Ridiger Minov speak in their book, in "Jasen", "From War to War", very precisely about it. There's a lot of data on these things that I'm giving you. Among other things, you have photographs of these founders of the Federal Union of European Ethnic Groups, with the peak of Adolf Hitler, and today the Federal Union of European Ethnic Groups is recognised by the EU as an NGO fighting for the rights of national minorities. Here's an example of what the EU is doing on this single indicator alone. Intelligence activity – the problem is that foreign intelligence organisations are carrying out illegal activities, etc. That's right, it's all true. The military intelligence agency has the opportunity to deal with intelligence, however, when it comes to BIA, you have abolished the BIA intelligence work. That's what Dragan Filipovic said in his book "The Anatomy of Globalist Stink". Officially, the intelligence board exists, however, in fact, people who do not have the authority of an official and cannot handle intelligence work. What does that mean? That means we're not going to some big secret police major countries. – Slovenian secret police, Bosnian, Croatian, Albanian, whichever you want, can do intelligence work in Serbia without any problems, and the Security and Information Agency cannot deal with intelligence in the region. That's what you're responsible for, except you're responsible for something like that. When did the intelligence work go down? After the murder of Dr Zoran Djindjic in 2003, on the orders of the Americans. Why? So they can't check the data on the organization of his murder abroad, among other things. You're still hinting about the NATO Pact here, etc., environmental protection, problems. Those who have the most poisoned the environment in Serbia are just representatives of the NATO Pact, their military machinery, the impoverished uranium. They bombed in Kosovo and Metohija one of the main hubs of healthy drinking water. The second large hub is located near Plitvice Lakes. They deliberately bombed this hub in Kosovo and Metohija with impoverished uranium! They poisoned these sources, not just for Serbia, they poisoned Europe. So these data are very precise and there's no dispute. That's how the NATO Pact works, and that's how the European Union works, and that's what you write and what you say. Thank you. I'll leave the rest of the time to my colleagues. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27116	Thank you. The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27117	Dear Presidents, honourable members of the Ministry of Defence, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my pleasure to discuss today two important strategic documents of the state of Serbia, the National Security Strategy and the Strategy for Defence of the Republic of Serbia. The two acts, with an already adopted Strategic Defence Review adopted by the government, are certainly three of the most important strategic documents for the Republic of Serbia at the moment. What is the quality of these strategies, in my opinion, is, above all, one multidisciplinary approach to this matter, one deep scan of the existing situation and the coordinates that we as state bodies have in the future in terms of national security, in terms of the defence system. So, the Strategy is, firstly, an assessment of the state of risk and threats, and it is a sort of analysis of the existing and global and regional security situation both in the immediate environment and in the wider environment and, let me say, in the planetary context. It is interesting, given that we are at the threshold of the second decade of the 21st century, that some concept of a national strategy is seen in an archaic and overcome context, from a value system of half the 20th or the end of the 20th century. In the era in which we live, in a dynamic world where things and events change on a daily basis, security from the predominantly military sphere shifts to other areas of society and social life, both energy and infrastructure, has its own social aspect, has its own environmental aspect. A national security strategy is an important document. I will remind you that not all countries have adopted such documents, although, of course, national security exists in all legal denials. I will remind you that Bulgaria, which is an EU member of the NATO Pact, has not yet adopted a national security strategy. The Russian Federation only recently adopted a similar document. What is key in the National Security Strategy is not only a defence, these are in the first place respect for human rights, economic prosperity, stability, the development of democracy and the rule of law and the undoubtedly pro-European foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia. If we have a consensus in our society on any issue, it is certainly a large degree of consensus in our society in terms of Serbia's definition of European integration, and it is certainly an irreversible process that we need to speed up, among other things, by adopting such strategies. Of course safety is a key word in the National Security Strategy, but I'm saying, it doesn't just have a military aspect, it has all these other aspects that I've been listing. Times change, the whole consolidation of international relations is changed, so the challenges, risks, threats that exist in the region's environment, which exist on our continent, and of course throughout the world, are different and generated and different from those risks that existed in some previous period. It is therefore important that this strategic document, and it contains, because it is the result of a multidisciplinary analysis of such a professional and quality approach, an assessment of the situation, in the first place, but it also contains guidelines in terms of the functioning of the state authorities, the non-governmental sector, citizens, economic operators, and that is, to say, something that gives a broad character in the application of this document. It is the widest normative framework for future and legal projects and sublegal projects, but for an affirmative social action that we must all implement. So is the legislative, executive and judicial authority. My fellow Members, the MPs who spoke before me, have analyzed in detail, and I would not like my debate to go into a subtle legal observation of this matter. I must highlight the third chapter of this document, which is the National Interests of the Republic of Serbia in the area of security. These are: the preservation of sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence, the preservation of internal stability and the rule of law and the development of democracy and democratic institutions, as well as the integration of the Republic of Serbia into the European Union. The protection of life, property of citizens of the Republic of Serbia is one of the priorities of national security with economic development, creating a stable, peaceful and prosperous environment, preserving and developing international order. Serbia has large integrated capacity both in the area of defence of general security and in the area of its economic resources, human resources, and I must say that all these capacities based on these strategies, as well as the law we will discuss, and I hope and expect it to adopt at this meeting of the National Assembly, will allow Serbia to become a regional leader in this area as well. Serbia has real chances in many areas according to its potentials. We are leaders in the region but also leaders in the area of security. I will repeat once again that the process of our European integration is "conditio son qua non" of all our processes, meaning that the supranational integration in the first place of EU integration is a condition for Serbia, which, with its administrative capacities, with its capacities in the field of protection of human rights, protection of minority rights, will allow Serbia to stabilise and become a prosperous society and, ultimately, EU member states. As far as the Military Security Strategy is concerned, I will only mention two aspects that I do not think are sufficiently spoken of, which are: transparency in planning and financing defences. I don't know if it may have been the minister in his opening statement who pointed out, therefore, that transparency is achieved primarily through the budgetary projection, through the budget of the Republic of Serbia adopted by us, the MPs, that is, this high house, and civil defence control, therefore, greater participation in this civilian control, as well as other social entities. I want to say, although this is not explicitly mentioned in the Defence Strategy, it is in some other documents, and it is particularly important that we also know the MPs, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and these are our resources in the area of defence production, which was once called armed production and arms exports. We achieved 400m euros in income on this basis. So defence production and arms exports. I think the next year's projection, some, a billion euros, should be incorporated into such documents and, of course, realised. Serbia receives not only two normative acts by adopting the two documents, it gets one and a formal legal and factual basis for the position of regional leader in the area of national security. I'm calling in this case, too, to a consensus I was just talking about. There's no politics here, there's no politics here. These are strategic documents important to our country, important to our society, important to our citizens and therefore I call on all MPs in this House to vote on these documents in the day of the vote. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27118	Thank you. The MP, Mr. Zoran Ostojić, has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27119	Presidentee, distinguished ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, LDP estimates that the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy, which are ahead of us, is a major shift in defining the country's basic postulates and values. We would really like to vote for these two strategies. However, the minister himself said that the unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence and the security threat that the Strategy is qualified for, is a somewhat contradictory goal and that both strategies have contradictions within them, given the determination to be a full member of the EU. The contradiction was also seen from discussions today, as many ruling majority MPs advocated Serbia's full membership in NATO. I must say, the amendment we propose would allow the LDP to vote for these two strategies. We will discuss the reasons why Serbia should be a full NATO member more when it comes to the debate on details. Certainly these are security reasons, that these are political reasons, that these are economic reasons, that this is an impact on the international community, and ultimately, one of the reasons is that the so-called so-called. The neutrality is unsustainable. It's unsustainable because nobody admitted it, unsustainable, because it's expensive work and work. I really think it is time for Serbia, if we are honest in these European affairs and my party stands for it, to make a clear redefinition of priorities, when it comes to foreign policy and security and to prepare quickly for full NATO membership. The minister often likes to say – that no one has called us and that it is not on the agenda. That's a fact. But no one will even call us unless there is this ridiculous Resolution on neutrality, which is for some "Holy Letter", for God's sakes, because this Parliament has brought it. Where is the better place for Serbia to join the NATO Pact than in the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy? Let's put that on, and we'll see if he calls us. Is it not your argument that all around us are currently members of the NATO Pact, or will quickly become, including Bosnia, where the BiH presidency unanimously decided that it wants the country to be a NATO pact member. That means with the vote of the Serbian representative, so those who swear on Dodik can ask him why he did it. After all, the Republika Srpska Army, I remind you, was abolished three years ago and there is a single BiH Army. It was a basic condition for that military integration. It's simple, there's a lot of arguments to consider now that I have so little time left. But in any case, I only have a minister's one recommendation, this part of the National Security Strategy called – Challenges, Risks and Threats of Security, really has some pearls. It's like he wrote someone who, as I say, finished the academy not in '49, when Stalin's painting was taken down, but probably in '47, when it still existed. Take a look at the sentence: "Intelligence action carried out by foreign intelligence organisations through illegal and stealthy activities poses a real threat to the security of the Republic of Serbia". So we need to pass the law here in the Assembly that foreign services have to report and report, etc. In any case, we're willing to support, if most of what he truly means, and some of them say, he's willing to accept it, which is that we define ourselves clearly here according to NATO membership pact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27120	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27121	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have two strategies ahead of us. You voted to discuss them in a congregation debate. There may be a reason, but there are some conditions between us, but it would be better if it weren't. First, what can be seen on the formal side, which is not a major remark, is that the National Security Strategy, the way that we are pictured here, in the form in which it is presented, has no direct basis for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia with Article 99 of point 9) of the Constitution of Serbia. It explicitly states that the National Assembly is adopting a defence strategy. As you, Mr. Minister, in some of your previous statements during the day, you said, neither national security nor security, nor other things are the same and should be distinguished. When it comes to the Strategy of Defence, it involves certain aspects of security. Without that, you can't even argue. Anyway, I don't think the form in which this document is proposed is good. That can't be a fundamental remark. Of course, what we've noticed is that it's not good in this text, it's unsystemic, there's some confusion, there's even some contradiction and contradiction in the text itself. The way the text is written, there is an impression, as if it were some kind of political response by people who see the policy of the state and the development of a strategy to the day-to-day political challenges. Then it's not a strategy. Then it may be some other document that brings to your proposal the National Assembly, but the strategy, in that sense, cannot be. The strategies are mostly short-term, or long-term documents. They should be adhered to by the state of Serbia, and the obligation stems from the will of the National Assembly. What is the relationship between national policy and the National Security Strategy, this cannot be clearly concluded from the content of this text. What's interesting, for example, is that when you read the risks and threats, in the other chapter, on page 6, you can see that there is no criterion by which these challenges and threats can be systematicized. When it comes to what these challenges and threats are, then it is omitted in this security strategy to indicate something that should be in one serious document. Do you think that risk or threat does not include one political international state environment and the political will of other countries that have certain interests that do not have to coincide with the essential interests of our country? Can certain activities of these countries, through their information and security agencies and other services, be of no effect on the development of the overall political situation and stability in our country? This isn't a story of any paranoia or international conspiracy. What I'm telling you is something that's common, normal, and this is something that you always pay attention to in the world. What about, say, examples of threats to individual sanctions? That's what we've experienced. I don't want to get into the controversy of who's to blame, but these are the experiences of this country. What happens to certain international conditions and blackmails? We are running a policy here, different between us in this country, where a political group, consisting of several parties, argues that certain international organisations or states in the world have a certain goal, but that they do not put any pressure on our country, for example, in the context of recognition or self-recognition of Kosovo and Metohija independence. That, don't kid yourself, it's just not true. When certain conditions are set for our country, which are unusual in relation to other conditions that other countries have when it comes to EU membership, these conditions will be seen to be somewhat off due to the specificity of our case. This particularity of our case is reported in the statements of individual EU officials and individual states as some of them openly say that Serbia will not enter the EU until it recognises Kosovo and Metohija, and then someone from the highest official place, from the European Commission, deny it. It is not easy for the citizens of Serbia, nor for us who are involved in politics on their behalf. If you think that these permanent threats of certain officials are not an expression of certain pressure, then you're wrong, and I don't think you do, you're just not going to admit it. So one such environment cannot be ignored, one such type of pressure is ignored in a strategic document. I didn't say anything about this, or how it should be done. That was up to you to say, but you didn't say that. For example, you say that the danger of armed aggression against the Republic of Serbia has been significantly reduced. You were compared to, say, 1999, but what does the term "substantially reduced" mean? We have a certain geopolitical problem on the ground. You know what the state interests of the Republic of Albania and the issue of Kosovo and Metohija are in, which is part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not saying it's a spark that can cause an armed conflict, but to ignore that moment and that it doesn't work at least in three sentences, it's incomprehensible to me. And the other thing is, we need these documents, instead of listing universal principles, to think about that there are certain principles that we can mention in these documents, which are directly related to our conditions and our needs. It is impossible for this National Assembly to adopt a document on Serbia's military neutrality, while Serbia's "v" from Serbia's military neutrality is nowhere in both documents, especially in the Defence Strategy. What's the concept? From all this, it shows that these two documents, especially the Defence Strategy, which is supposed to be the goal of joining international organisations, which cannot be a defence strategy, can only be a political environment with which a particular defence strategy is formed, this cannot be a goal in itself, as we then refer to our own documents that we adopt, and this best shows what the political intention of this document is. My esteemed colleague Ostojić has a different opinion – that this assembly needs to be made clear on this and openly that we are in favour of joining a political military alliance, such as NATO. Of course, we think politically differently, as I am convinced that most Serbian citizens also think that we should not be a member of that military alliance. But this way, when you access this document here, it turns out that this is a kind of psychological preparation for such moves. It's just that the impression from here prevails. That is why there is no systematicity, therefore there is no serious document, but it has been used and used today at this session of the Assembly for daily political purposes. Unlike the laws you've passed, which can be objected to, which will be on the agenda for the next few days, and whose justification and good and bad sides we can talk about, this is not something that's serious, and in the part where it's serious, we're afraid of that part.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27122	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27123	Mr. Aligrudic, we certainly differ, but you will agree that we represent the will of Serbian citizens. She can be one at a time and the other in another future moment. If, then, when you brought this Resolution on neutrality, it was the will of the citizens, you do not allow tomorrow to be the will of the citizens to join NATO, if we want to move faster to Europe. What the minister often says - no one conditiones us by entering NATO to be an EU member, yes, but I remind you, and US Vice President Biden said it was not a condition a few months ago. NATO's pact depends on the speed of EU membership, so if anyone leads politics, we are for the EU, but we will not join NATO, even if it lasts 30 years, so to speak. We want fast EU membership. For that, Biden said, others also speak the condition of membership in the NATO Pact. I don't see what a decision made once by the Assembly at some other political moment, with a different opinion of the people's representatives, would not make. Well, it's not "Holy Letter," it doesn't count for time. You keep saying, and that's one suggestion, there's a lot of you here who are still mouthful of Kosovo, after all, says here it's a major security threat, it's stupid that there's a suggestion coming from me, but I'm going to say it anyway – you're always talking about unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo. She was unilateral, but Kosovo is not independent. No state has recognised an independent Kosovo. Kosovo has "supervised independence" because it unilaterally declared that independence in line with Ahtisaari's plan. Ahtisaari's plan is not about independent Kosovo, but about'supervised independence', which is why Eulex is there. All states have recognised "supervised independence" because it is being monitored. After all, BiH is in some way "supervised independence". There are countries that are UN members and are not sovereign. That's what Bosnia is like. They are, after all, Canada and Australia. These are not sovereign states, although they have UN membership. Don't talk about Kosovo's independence. If you like to say it, then say "supervised independence." I get the impression that one of you really wants Kosovo's independence to be unsupervised, absolutely, but it's not right now. These countries that have recognised, in whose society we want, I am talking about 20 EU countries, and they have recognised'supervised independence' and they are overseeing it through, among other things, the Eulex mission.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27124	Mr. Sutanovac. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27125	I can accept any criticism and it's not disputed, but I can't accept a criticism that says this document is unserious. Mr. Aligrudic, these documents were completed in October 2007 and were made in the co-ordination of the entire government, including the prime minister's cabinet, at the time, Kostunica, and Admiral Stajic, who also participated in the drafting of these documents. As unserious as he was at the time, Prime Minister Kostunica and his associates could be considered unserious. And as for what you said about the danger of armed aggression, I will read a paragraph, very briefly: 'The danger of armed aggression against the Republic of Serbia has been significantly reduced, but it is not completely excluded. '"The whole discussion you had, I'm sorry you're not listening now, it was flat-out, obviously it wasn't undermined by knowledge, and it seems to me that you didn't even read this strategy, which is really unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-06-0.u27126	Thank you. National MP Dragan Shormaz throws it out of place. Mr. Shormaz? Now, Mr Aligrudic explained to me that he realized that the complete apparition of Mr Ostojic applied to him, that he had spoken to him. Anyway, it's 6:00. Tomorrow we'll start with Mr. Aligrudic's replica. Thank you. Tomorrow at 10:00, we'll continue our work. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 117 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please place identification cards in the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. we have working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the MPs: Sinisa Stamenkovic, Nikola Krpić and Aleksandar Pejcic, as well as that I am in agreement with Article 88 of Item 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the meetings, in addition to the representatives of the motions, to attend: Dusan Spasojevic and Igor Jovičić, State Secretarys at the Ministry of Defence Dragan Radulovic, Defence Ministry Secretary Brigadier General Mitar Kovac, Colonel Goran Zekovic and Slavica Jerkovic, Defence Ministry head and Milorad Peric, Head of the International Military Co-operation Administration at the Ministry of Defence. We move to the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGY OF THE NATIONAL SAFETY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE SUPPORT OF A DECISION ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DEFENCE OF THE SERVED REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (joined Single Search) Before Goce, we have remained in debt to Dragan Šharmaz since yesterday. Here you go. Just sign in, please.
