ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-01-0.u16802	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 185 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has shown that 99 MPs are present in the hall, that is, more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending meetings of MPs Velimir Ilic, Jelena Travar-Miljević and Susana Grubjesic. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for the session and the director of the Republic Secretariat for Law and Darko Radojic, the assistant director, to attend the meeting, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Milan Markovic. You will be given a notice, if the service has not shared it, that the government has determined that during the cabinet session today, Minister Oliver Dulic represents. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on IMPLEMENTATION AND USE OF GREECE, REFERENCE AND THE HYMBER REPUBLIC OF SERVE (principles) You have received the draft law submitted by the Government, you have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of the debate, in the form of an ambassador's group, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. People's MPs who earn not to be heard beg not to receive and, secondly, not to speak while the National Assembly session is held, because it's the only way to hear what's going on. Please don't throw away during the opening and session of the National Assembly. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Mrs Comic, there is no transmission to the Second RTS Programme. ) Since the total time of debate in the principle of parliamentary group is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: Parliament group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; MP group SRS – one hour, nine minutes and 36 seconds; MP group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group SPS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Send group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak for up to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that, on this agenda, MPs: MP Boris Aleksic for the SRS Parliamentary Group, by delivering on behalf of the SRS National MP Filip Stojanovic's presidency notice just before the beginning of this session that the SRS parliamentary group would represent MP Aleksandar Martinovic; MP Milica Radovic – MP DSS-Vojislav Kostunica; MP Sinisa Stamenkovic – PUBS. In accordance with Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Applying Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which obliges me to take care of order in the National Assembly, ask the MPs of Milorad Krstin, Milan Škrbić, Vitomir Plužarevic, Filip Stojanović, Milan Veselinović and the Government of Milojkovic to take their seats in the Hall of the National Assembly, which, by the decision of the Administrative Committee, are intended to sit and work in the National Assembly. Currently, these six MPs, either by mistake or on purpose, are sitting in places that, according to the decision of the Administrative Board, are places for the work of the MPs of the second parliamentary group. I ask the Members of Parliament to take their seats for work and according to the decision of the Administrative Board. Will the MPs Milorad Krstin, Milan Veselinovic, Vitomir Plužarevic, Milan Škrbić, Vlad Milojkovic, Filip Stojanovic, act in accordance with the decision of the Administrative Committee, or will you violate the decision of the Administrative Board? (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Mrs. Komic, I report to the Rules of Procedure. You have to give me your word on the Rules of Procedure. (The People's MPs of the SRS are getting out of place. I ask the People's MPs not to receive it. I am currently applying Article 27 during the session, because I am finding an obvious violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Until we end the removal of the violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, no one else will get the word. Will the Messengers of the people take their places to work? No, I don't. I give the first warning, on the basis of Article 106, the last position, and because of violations of order in the National Assembly, serious violations of order and violations of the National Assembly decision, the People's MPs Milorad Krstin, Milan Škrbić, Vitomir Plužarevic, Filip Stojanovic, Vlada Milojkovic, Milan Veselinovic. I ask the Members of Parliament to, after the first warning measure has been made, leave places for work which are not intended for them by a decision of the Administrative Committee and to take up the seats that they have decided by the Administrative Committee to work. People's MPs refuse to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, refuse to respect the decision of the Administrative Committee and thus continue to violate the provisions of Article 106, the final position, and give a second warning to the MPs Milorad Krstin, Milan Skrbić, Milan Veseinovic, Vitomir Plužarevic, Filip Stojanovic, Vlada Milojkovic. (Elena Christmas-Talian, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to follow the decision of the Administrative Board and to take their place for work, on the basis of Article 106 and the decision taken by the Administrative Board. I ask the Members of Parliament to consult the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I repeat that the application of Article 27 is under way because of violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, serious violations of discipline, violations of the decision of the Administrative Board. As the session continues, in which I apply Article 27, no one else can get a word. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: But, Mrs. Komic, I reported for breach of the Rules of Procedure 10 minutes ago. () When we are done with the application of Article 27, words will be given at the request of the MPs. I ask the MPs of Milorad Krstin, Milan Škrbić, Milan Veselinović, Vitomir Plužarevic, Filip Stojanović, Vlado Milojkovic that, after two measures, they do not continue to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, with a violation of the decision of the Administrative Board and to take their posts which, by decision of the Administrative Board, belong to them. As the MPs continue to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, they continue to violate the decision of the Administrative Committee, I express the measure of confiscation of the words to the MPs: Milorad Krstin, Milan Škrbic, Milan Veseinovic, Vitomir Plužarevic, Filip Stojanovic and Vlada Milojkovic. (Elena Christmas-Talian, from the scene: You're breaking the Businessman! ) I ask the MPs who have been given the measure of taking the words to stop violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and the decision of the Administrative Committee and to take the positions that they have been given by the decision of the Administrative Board. I warn the MPs that in cases of insistence in breach of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the most difficult measure in each parliament, other than those already said which are difficult for each Parliament, therefore, is the measure of distance from the session. (Elena Christmas-Talian, from the place: You deny the rights of the MPs willingly! You're breaking the Rules of Procedure! ) I ask the MPs not to earn, not to endanger the order and peace of the session of the National Assembly, and I repeat the third time that the session is currently held at the session of members 27, on the ageing of the order in the National Assembly, and because of the insistence of the MPs Milorad Krstin, Milan Škrbić, Milan Veseninović, Vitomir Plužarevic, Filip Stojanović, Vlada Milojkovic, to harshly violate order and dignity in the National Assembly and not adhere to the decisions of the Administrative Committee. While Article 27 continues to apply, no other MP can receive a word, so I ask you not to usurp the right to a free word, which was in this House and will be provided to all Members of the People, and in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since MPs who are given first warning measures, other warnings and measures taken do not want to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, do not want to participate in the work of the National Assembly with respect for order and respect for decisions of the National Assembly, I express the distance measures with the session of the National MPs Milorad Krstin, Milan Škrbić, Milan Veseinovic, Vitomiro Plužarevic, Filip Stojanovic and Vlada Milojkovic. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Nikola, I answered the word at the beginning of the session. This really doesn't make sense. You're violating all possible principles. ) I ask the MPs who have, as a parliamentary group, a strategic plan to prevent the application of order, custody of the order and work of the National Assembly from giving up such a strategy, because such a strategy is harmful to all MPs, and there is no benefit to Members of Parliament who feel that they have the right to disobey the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or not to respect the decisions of the Administrative Committee. The rules we make apply equally to everyone and those rules will be applied. With great regret, on behalf of all of us, I realize that a measure of distance has been expressed from the session of the Members of the People's Parliament and I'm setting a break by 11.30 p.m., when we will continue our work. Thank you. [[After break – 11.35]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue to work in the afternoon, and according to a thorough review of the bill. Does Prime Minister Oliver Dulic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-01-0.u16804	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, it is a great pleasure to have this important topic discussed in this house today. I congratulate you on moving, and I hope that in the future you will work successfully, that you will pass laws that will benefit our citizens, that you will participate, together with the Government, in creating a better future. Of course, I hope that in such a beautiful home, in a historic building like this, you will confirm everything that is the essence of parliamentaryism, which is, above all, one cultural representation of citizens. State symbols represent entity codes and sovereignty of states, deeply embedded in the collective memory of every nation. They represent the state and express unity, loyalty and belonging to the state. With its shape and contents, colors and marks in the coat of arms and flag, i.e. in words and in the melodies of the anthem, state symbols in an authentic way sublime the fundamental values in which the state rests, connecting its citizens, the state continuity and tradition. Connecting the past to the present, state symbols have special significance for the state and the citizens. It is therefore important to be determined with the intention to last, to be carefully chosen, especially if there are already symbols in the tradition of the state that are rooted and accepted. In mature societies and developed countries, it insists on the sustainability of the form and content of state symbols, because long-term state symbols preserve the bond between generations. When the 1990 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, an opportunity was missed to establish new state signs of the start and symbolic new stage of Serbia's constitutionality, in the way almost all Eastern European states, former members of the Socialist bloc did. In these countries, new state symbols have been established, as a rule, by establishing their old traditional symbols. Changes in Serbia's state legal status that followed, first after the adoption of the SRJ Constitution since 1992, as a member of the two-member Federation and then as Member States in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, have again raised the issue of state symbols of the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in order to fill the legal gap in such an important issue, without touching constitutional obstacles still in force in the 1990 Constitution, adopted a 2004 Recommendation on the use of coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian government adopted the same year a conclusion on the use of the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Serbia. The need and opportunity to edit the state symbols of Serbia again appeared in 2006 when the Republic of Serbia, after a period slightly shorter than a century, in which it was part of several different political and constitutional forms of the common state with other Yugoslav nations, re-constituted as an independent state. Since 2006, the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has established in Article 7 that the Republic of Serbia has its coat of arms, flag and anthem (in Article 1); that the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia is used as the Great coat of arms and as the Small coat of arms (i.e. Article 2); that the flag of the Republic of Serbia exists and is used as the National Flag and as the State Flag (i.e. Article 3); that the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia is the solemn song "God of Justice" (i.e. Article 4) and that the appearance and use of coat of arms, flags and anthem are governed by law (Station 5). In the current constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Serbia, issues relating to the appearance and use of coat of arms, flags and anthem of the Republic of Serbia are not regulated by law. Since 2006, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has left the legislator with complete regulation on how to use state symbols, as well as the legislative work on constitutional provisions on flag and coat of arms, in terms of regulating their appearance. Since these issues are not regulated by law, and the Constitution requires these issues to be regulated by law, in accordance with Article 7(5). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The draft law on the appearance and use of coat of arms, flags and anthem of the Republic of Serbia came from the fact that the Republic of Serbia is an old European country that has a long state-of-the-art tradition, as the continuity of its statehood and the creation of its symbols extend through the Kingdom of Serbia and the Principality of Serbia to the Serbian medieval state. According to the study of historical, heraldic and constitutional law literature, it was concluded that the basic elements of Serbia's coat of arms -- a cross with four glasses and a white two-headed eagle, have been instigated since the German state. Serbia's coat of arms with the above elements finally formed Stojan Novakovic, the minister of Education of the Kingdom of Serbia, by joining those medieval heraldic elements of Serbia's coat of arms and the royal crown that stems from the coronation of Stefan the First. This idea solution to Serbia's coat of arms, following Serbia's state independence and its international recognition at the Berlin Congress in 1878, has been given its state and legal authority in the Law on the coat of arms of the Kingdom of Serbia since 1882, and then in the Constitution of the Kingdom of Serbia since 1888. This coat of arms remained Serbia's national coat of arms until the drowning of the Kingdom of Serbia in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians in 1918, and basically as the coat of arms of the Kingdom of ShS, i.e. the coat of arms of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, in which Croatian and Slovenian features were equally represented. Contrary to understanding that the crown on the coat of arms is not suited to the state of the republican form of government, it is the stance of heraldic science that it is not an expression of monarchy, but of the sovereignty of the owners of the coat of arms, of the state, or of the people, and they have it on their coat of arms and other states of republican form of rule. With regard to the flag of Serbia, according to the sources studied, it was concluded that both the red and blue colors of the flag have been inaugurated in tradition since the Serbian medieval state of Nemanjic, and that the red and blue variant was basically used as the flag of the Serbian Principality. The Constitution of the Kingdom of Serbia since 1888 has definitely established – they are folk colors: red, blue and white. Independent of the subsequent changes in state status and forms of government that have affected the appearance of state symbols, both colors of the flag of Serbia have remained uninterrupted until today. By way of derogation from Article 7, paragraph 5. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia since 2006 has been established that the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia is a solemn song "God of Justice". The song by author Jovan Djordjevic, on music by Davorin Yenko, was declared a state anthem after the declaration of the Serbian Principality as the Kingdom of Serbia in 1882, during the rule of King Milan Obrenovic. The shift of the dynasties on the throne, Obrenovic and Karadjordjevic, which followed in 1903, although it was carried out on the principle of constitutional discontinuity, did not affect the coat of arms and flag, but after the declaration of King Petar First Karadjordjevic, a competition for the new national anthem, which was soon annulled, that in 1909, King Peter I indicated, the anthem of "God of Justice" was restored again. It remained a national anthem until the Kingdom of SHS was declared, and afterwards it was represented in the anthem of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, or the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, along with parts of the Croatian and Slovenian anthem. The formation of the second Yugoslavia has brought new state symbols, tailored to the ideological needs of that time. After the break-up of the SFRY, whose anthem "Hey, Slovenian" survived for a while as an anthem of the SRJ, namely the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia since 2006, by establishing the solemn song "God of Justice" for the anthem of the Republic of Serbia, which, although with certain interruptions, is shorter or longer, is the only one who has a tradition in Serbia's state history, resolves all dilemmas regarding the anthem of Serbia, so the legislator remains to, according to Article 7(5). The constitution, it edits the "God of Justice" anthem of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia since 2006 has established an anthem of the Republic of Serbia, and with regard to coat of arms and flags, the levels of their use: the Great and Small coat of arms, the National and the State Flag. Consistent with this is the name of the law, which is the subject of Article 1. The bill sets out that the law regulates the appearance and use of coat of arms, flags and anthems of the Republic of Serbia. The basic provisions of the bill provide that the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Serbia represent the Republic of Serbia and expresses its belonging to the Republic of Serbia, which clearly expresses the representative and identity of the state symbols, as well as that the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Serbia should not be used in the form and manner contrary to the Constitution and the law, thus providing adequate legal protection for these legally established appearances and methods of use of state symbols. The basic provisions of the bill also provide for basic rules on the excerpt of the coat of arms and the flag of the Republic of Serbia, as well as restrictions on the use of coat of arms and the flag of the Republic of Serbia. A consensual argument on the development of Serbia's state symbols, the provision of Article 10. The bill stipulates that the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia has been established by the Law on the coat of arms of the Kingdom of Serbia since 16 June 1882 and is used as a Great coat of arms and as a small coat of arms. According to Article 11. The bill of law, the Great coat of arms is a red shield on which, between two golden coverings at the foot of the bed, a two-headed silver eagle, gold-armed and the same tongue and legs, with a red shield on the chest on which the silver cross between the four is the same shades of brides facing the vertical beam of the cross, and the shield is crowned with a golden crown and encased in a porphyre bound with gold bars, bound with the same gilts, placed with hermelin and a crown of gold. According to Article 12. The bill, Little coat of arms, is a red shield on which, between two golden covers at the foot, a two-headed silver eagle, gold-armed and the same tongue and legs, with a red shield on its chest with a silver cross between the four same glasses facing the vertical beam of the cross, and the shield is crowned with a golden crown. The provisions of Article 13 provide for the use of the Great coat of arms in a legal manner only by the state bodies educated by the Constitution (the National Assembly, President of the Republic, Government, Constitutional Court, Supreme Cassation Court, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, the National Bank of Serbia, the State Auditory Institution and the Citizens' Protector), as well as by diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Serbia abroad, in accordance with the provisions of Article 20. Vienna Conventions on diplomatic relations, and Mali coat of arms in other envisaged cases. The bill prescribes the appearance and use of the national flag and the national flag. The national flag is a horizontal tricolor with fields of the same height, from the bottom down: red, blue and white, and above all, the centre moved towards the mast for one seventh of the total length of the flag, Mali coat of arms. The national flag is a horizontal tricolor with fields of the same height, from the bottom down: red, blue and white. In accordance with Article 7(3), The constitution, the standart, is defined as the state flag of square form, used by the president of the Republic and the president of the National Assembly. Two types of standarts are foreseen: the standart of the President of the Republic and the standart of the President of the National Assembly. Besides, this chapter provides for a way of applying the rules on flag emphasis. Given that the Constitution found that the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia is a solemn song of "God of Justice", the legislator remained to prescribe the text of the anthem and to regulate the way it was used. It is also a great opportunity to edit state symbols for the preservation of the identity and fundamental values of each country. Their honorable place is not fit to be arranged by any act of weaker legal force than the law. Long through history created and traditionally worn, once solemnly established, constitutionally and legally preserved, accepted and respected in the people and the state, state symbols cannot be changed quickly and easily because the duration best measured their values. By establishing Serbia's state independence, which has an age-old state tradition, which has its historically built and preserved state symbols, in which the general human ideals of freedom and justice are embedded and rooted in the consciousness of peoples and citizens, long respected, recognizable and recognized in the world, all this speaks of the particular need for the adoption of this bill. (Employees of DSS and NS are leaving the hall. ) Serbia, as an old European state, whose tradition and symbols are well known throughout Europe and under which it has built the best European and world relations, should have the Constitution and the law fully decorated state symbols before they also get their place at EU institutions' forums. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I invite you to vote for this law and be proud to wear the honors of the Serbian state. Thank you. (All the time speech by Minister Oliver Dulic, MPs of the SRS asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure and scanned "Long Lives Serbia", "Serbia". )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-01-0.u16805	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by application of Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in accordance with Article 108. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which, in its second part, says that the measure of distance from the session of the National Assembly is given to the MPs if they continue to commit other violations within the meaning of Rule 106 of this Rules of Procedure and in other cases to this Rules of Procedure... (SRS MPs are looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. )......................................................................................................... voicing the distance measures with the National MPs session: Milan Avramović, Aleksic Boris, Asimović Dragan, Christmas-Talijan Eleni, Buha Milorad, Vuković Jadranka, Vuković Slobodanu, Damjanović Jovanovic, Dimitrijevic Lidija, Duvnjak Momcilu, Djokić Branimiru... (SRS MPs scandal "Long live Serbia". )......................................................................................................... Jocic Radici, Kragović Ljubomiru, Jojic Petra, Ljubenović Tomislav, Martinović Aleksandru, Mijaljević Sladjanu, Milenkovic Marku, Mirović Dejanu, Mladenovo Bojanu, Momčilov Paji, Munjić Mirku, Perić Sreti, Plecevic Dušanki, Radovanović Milovanu, Savik Niko, Tomman Marini. These MPs were given a measure of distance from the National Assembly session because they constantly violate all provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the order and work of the National Assembly, infringing the decisions of the Administrative Committee, which are prescribed by the work of our assembly during the session and are in vain trying to prevent work and order from being in the National Assembly. (SRS MPs scandal "Freedom of Seselj". I thank you, MPs, for today’s work. I apologize to the citizens of Serbia for having to attend scenes that are undesirable in any parliament, which demonstrate ignorance, the will not to respect the rules and the will not to have work and order in the National Assembly Hall. This assembly is an assembly of the people of Serbia and we show our respect and respect for the citizens and citizens of Serbia. We're finishing work for today, and we'll continue the session tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 143 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The presidents of the National Assembly and the chairpersons of the session shall be assisted in the management of the electronic voting system by Miss Milena Miljkovic, Ms. Zdravka Rodić, and on their behalf, please listen to the notice. When determining the quorum, when the electronic system is ordered to establish a quorum, it takes about 25 to 30 seconds for the system to be prepared for card reception, and please wait with your MP cards placed in the electronic voting system, those few-tenths of a second. Here, you can put your identification cards on. When identification is confirmed then a signal appears on the screen. Please wait a few more seconds. Please place your MP cards in the electronic voting system. We'll try again, since the previous two-time quorum determination was not accepted by the electronic system. The initialisation of the system is currently under way, and I will let you know when the system may be ready to accept the registration of our parliamentary cards. If that is not the case, we will have a break of a few minutes as long as it takes to reset the electronic system and then we will continue to identify the MPs present in the hall and in the electronic voting system. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the electronic determination of the quorum will be possible only after the reset of the system and therefore I ask you to be patient. The service and Miss Milena Miljkovic and Ms. Zdravka Rodic say it takes between five and seven minutes for the system to be established, so at that time we will continue with the electronic quorum determination, so that we can do part of the session without problem, and by Article 235 where it is important that the electronic system works completely securely. Thank you. At 10.15 hours we will continue to work and electronically determine the quorum in the National Assembly Hall.
