ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14389	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you know, for the first time in the practice of the National Assembly, and on a proposal from three parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, we are applying the Institute of Parliamentary Affairs on the current subject or, as they call it, "the Institute of Public Listening". In accordance with Article 86(1) and in accordance with Article 211, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 186 MPs attend today's work. Based on a proposal from parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: For European Serbia, G17 plus and SPS-JS, and in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set out Thursday, February 26th, 2009, starting at 4:00 p.m. as the Day for Answering Parliamentary Questions on the current topic. The current topic in which certain ministers and other officials in the government of the Republic of Serbia will answer parliamentary questions is: Mr Mirko Cvetkovic - Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Bozidar Djelic - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Science and Technology Development, Diana Dragutinović - Minister of Finance, Milutin Mrkonjic - Minister for Infrastructure, Verica Kalanovic - Minister for the National Investment Plan, Slobodan Milosavljevic - Minister of Trade and Service, and Sasa Dragin - Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. I also remind you that you have received a notice from the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that, due to their official absence, they are unable to attend: Bozidar Djelic - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Science and Technological Development, and Sasa Dragin - Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Since they expressed their desire to attend today's work by other members of the government who are also ready to answer parliamentary questions on the topic, I have held consultations with the proposing representatives and, accordingly, called for today's work to be attended by Mr Oliver Dulic -- Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, and Milan Markovic - Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to how to ask parliamentary questions on the current subject. The right to ask questions shall be given by all MPs, according to the order of application, and until the total time for asking questions is up. The MPs shall submit to the President of the National Assembly a request to ask questions in writing until the start of the reply, and verbally during the duration of the reply. The MP may ask up to three questions, as referred to in Article 208. Rules of Procedure. Answering parliamentary questions may take 180 minutes, and shall be carried out regardless of the number of Members present in the hall, in accordance with Article 207. Rules of Procedure. The time within which the MP orally asks the question is the longest three minutes, and the answer to that question is five minutes. After answering, the MP who has asked the question can ask two more questions, for a total duration of up to three minutes, and the answer to these questions may take up to five minutes. After that, other MPs have the right to ask questions according to the order of applications, and in accordance with Article 209. Rules of Procedure. During the duration of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be applied accordingly, by not allowing replication and indication of the breach of Rules of Procedure - Rule 211. Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to submit applications for asking questions if they have not already done so. I ask the Secretary of the National Assembly to take care of the order of applications filed. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji, on behalf of the motionary representative. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I report to the Rules of Procedure. No Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Kolundjia, one moment. During the duration of asking questions and giving answers, we have just begun on this day of work, following the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, by not allowing replication and apparition of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, pursuant to Rule 211. Rules of Procedure. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: On the 17th of March you adopted the Rules of Procedure while the Cypriots celebrated the anniversary of independence. Today, while the Serbs are condemning the Hague, here you are making a farce out of this congregation, the ruling majority are asking questions... Here you go, Mrs. Kolundjia. Please don't disturb the order of this session. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: Ask questions, but we will not participate in this farce. The SRS are leaving the O.R. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14390	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the parliamentary groups who have tabled an motion for an appointment of Parliament's issues on the topic, we have handled several important facts. The first is that this is an important topic and is of vital interest to the citizens of Serbia. So this is a topic that not only Serbia is facing, all the countries of the world are facing, and every citizen in this country is always asking the same question -- is the government closely monitoring what is going on, related to the global economic crisis, and does the government take all the measures at its disposal to ease this crisis and overcome it by least suffering? At the same time, opposition parliamentary groups have also asked that this topic be discussed and we, for the time being, have found this form, as a special day for parliamentary issues on the topic, as a possible way to discuss this issue, which does not mean that we cannot discuss this topic in any other way and in another way that the session will be scheduled. I would take the opportunity to ask three questions to the government of the Republic of Serbia. What is very important for Serbia is – can we already very clearly feel and measure the effects of the global economic crisis in Serbia, so to what extent has it already spilled into Serbia and in what forms? The second question is, what has the government done specifically to mitigate the effects of this crisis? The third question is: are these measures taken by the government, compared to other countries' experiences in the environment, considered sufficient? There are many complaints that they are late and that because the government is late, it has consequences for the country. So are the measures adequate and are they timely? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14391	Thank you, Mrs. Kolundjia. Please, who of the government wants to answer questions? Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic has his word. Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14392	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to begin by saying hello (this is my first address in this calendar year) and thank you for finally reaching a Rules of Procedure that will allow us to work more efficiently. I especially thank those MPs who wanted to participate in this debate, which is essential for the whole country, which they confirmed by their presence in this session. When it comes to specific issues, I will try to give an answer within what is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, and, of course, we have a long work this afternoon and evening, where my fellow ministers will have opportunities to participate. There were three questions here that basically refer to whether the crisis is already with us, whether we feel it, what the government is doing and, finally, whether what it's doing is soaring or comparable to what's being done in other countries? When it comes to the first question, is the crisis already with us, the answer is yes, yes, the crisis is with us. We started to analyze it somewhere in the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2008, and at that time the first measures were conceived, in a way that would meet these first challenges that have arisen. I would like to remind you that the announcement of the crisis has initially appeared to us as a crisis related to the banking sector, where citizens, believing that the banking sector is not well enough, have begun to withdraw their savings. At that point, we began to consider whether what is actually happening is really the way the crisis is going to emerge or it will spill over into the real sector and what consequences it will have. The second problem that was put before the government was that the announcement of the crisis in other countries was overly manifested as a deficit on the side of the demand, which was caused by banks starting to withdraw from credit activity, and we practically ended in 2008 with overheated demand causing a large current payment account deficit. As a result, the question arises whether we have a specific position in relation to the world and whether the crisis may arise with us in a different way than in other countries. At the time, we formed a working group that was more technical, mostly representatives of the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance, and that working group carried out the rules of analysis. Among the first proposals she generated were proposals aimed at protecting the banking system, which we knew was well-funded, but given that each bank was actually resting on trust, it was necessary to restore trust to people that the banking sector was founded and that they did not have to worry about their foreign savings. In this context, our proposals and our measures came down, as I said, in the beginning to raise the level of the secured deposit from the then 3,000 euros to 50,000 euros and to abolish the income taxes generated by the interest on foreign savings. These measures were then announced, and were later carried out in parliament. However, we have also applied to the operational plan very serious measures, to ensure that the banking sector is liquid so that these drawbacks do not lead to a discrepancy in the relationship between statements and real life, i.e. to show that banks are not only funded, but are able to pay off all their obligations. Turns out... No, I have 15 minutes, since three questions have been asked. Thank you. So what was done then... (President: Members of the Parliament, excuse me, Mr President, at the meeting, the heads of Parliament's groups have made little provision for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and we have agreed that, if three questions are asked, the answer may be up to 15 minutes. Here you go. Thank you. So these operational measures proved successful. We were able to stop this trend of withdrawing savings from banks and from the second half of December, especially in January, foreign reserves began to grow again. In parallel with these first activities, we started talking to a number of stakeholders, and above all I think about businessmen, the banking sector, and we even talked to political parties, in order to determine whether there are any ideas that could benefit us, because we think that the crisis is a problem that is not only a party, but rather a problem that the entire state and economy have found. We wanted everyone who could and wanted to participate in solving these problems, and in this context these talks were organised. Based on all these conversations, especially on conversations with businessmen and bankers, we have come to a new idea and understanding of how the crisis is, in practice, being overrun with us, because this spilling has started to tang the real sector the most. In December, there was a slowdown in activity and in the industry sector, we do not have data for January and February this year, however, some forecasts of accelerated growth this year will not be able to be realised. The measures we have come up with, and later applied, have basically come from the approach that we need uniqueness in defining, adopting and implementing measures, whereby we have assumed, first and foremost, the political but general unity of all citizens who have to face it. Also, we came from the principle of solidarity, which means that those who are most vulnerable must be most protected and that, in times of crisis, solidarity actually needs to be most exposed. Finally, the third principle was the principle of continuity, which means that we have advocated the development of the crisis from day to day, that we are taking measures, that we follow their realization, and that, if necessary, we adapt them to the emerging situation. If they are successful, to strengthen them even more, and if they are unsuccessful, change them with those others that could be successful, according to our assessment. In the context of such a concept we have made one programme of measures, I would not speak more specifically about it, my colleagues will later answer these questions, but this programme of measures basically has two packages. One package is restrictiveness, and the other is incentive. Part of the package relating to restrictiveness refers predominantly to the state, in the broadest sense of the word, therefore, to state authorities, public undertakings, etc. That's where it went to restrictiveness, which basically means saving at all levels where possible. The part about the incentive work is actually directed towards the economy, so the incentive of economic activity, which has been achieved in several different ways. One way is to ensure the activation of credit activity towards the economy, means to stimulate exports, to reduce liquidity, etc. In the second part, this incentive was given on the side of the demand, to boost demand, and we had to make sure that we encouraged demand for domestic products, because general incentive of demand could lead us to further increase the negative external trade balance. Finally, the third is one significant investment in infrastructure, which "per" raises demand, so it can be considered to be part of this third package. What is asked as a question is – is this package and macroeconomicly relevant and how is it compared to the other countries that have applied it? First of all, when it comes to timing itself, you've already had the opportunity to be informed, it's brought to the first countries, and practically, we've had the information that we were the second country to formally bring that measure programme. In that sense, it is very difficult to say that there is a delay, on the contrary, we have just moved a little faster than others to solve these problems. What is their macroeconomic significance compared to other countries? We have established and watched what other countries have done and how much they have provided for incentives. In doing so, you have had the opportunity to hear that many countries give billions of euros, hundreds of billions of euros, etc. Of course, we are a small country, and for this reason we have seen the relative impact of these incentives we give in the economy compared to the amount of gross domestic product in one year and then from that point of view compared our measures. Now I would take the opportunity to give you information about a dozen countries, to see how much they invested, or what their crisis programme is, and to compare it to our country. Gross domestic product incentives are as follows: in Russia - 1.1%), in Germany - 2.4%, in Japan - 2%, in Great Britain - 1.1%, in France - 0.4%, in China - 6% (so China has the biggest incentives), in the United States - 5.8%, in India - 1.3%, Canada - 2%, and Brazil - 0.2%. When we compare these figures to the amounts that we place in our economy, I note that these figures that I'm about to present are not related to the total figures that will be catalyticly derived from the interest subsidy, so here I'm only talking about direct expenditure from the budget that goes into solving the crisis and those for Serbia, so only the budget is 2.17%. Of which, 0.58% goes to the economy, the infrastructure 0.95%, through the NIP - 0.64%, a total of 2.17%. When this figure is now compared to the figures of these other countries, then it can be seen that from our country, only two of these countries had more significant separation than gross domestic product, these are China and the United States, one 6%, and the other 5.8%, while all other countries were below 2%. That is, some were about 2%, but there was a significant number of countries that produced about 1.1%. Based on what I've said, it can be realized that our measures are directly budgetary, in fact relevant and in a macroeconomic sense, and that they are roughly in the upper part of the separation that other countries have predicted. Otherwise, if we looked at the overall and catalytic impact of these measures, we would come to over 6%, specifically 6.38%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14393	Thank you, Mr. President. I give my word to the MP Vladan Batic, who does not belong to any parliamentary group, to ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14394	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a few questions. At the time of the election campaign, Serbian citizens were promised to receive free campaigns of 1,000 euros. Our people have a proverb that says "a promise of crazy joy", and what has happened since that time to this day best confirms the founding of the people's minds. My question is – when will this promise be fulfilled, since NIS is privatized? There is nothing, privatisation will be delayed, both Telekom and EPS, which is justified and logical on the other hand. So, when will the promise that the citizens of Serbia, over five million of them, will receive thousands of euros on behalf of free shares? Because at the time of this economic crisis for people, it's huge money. The second issue, during the election campaign, has also been promised that one of the epochal moves of the domestic economy will be bringing Fiat to the flag, producing some new models of Fiat's cars. As we can see, time goes by, nothing happens, just delaying the beginning. When will this epochal goal be realized? Let me remind you, Fiat is firing his employees. The belief that Fiat will invest in Serbia will eventually close its factories in Italy and fire its workers is science fiction. It's almost like someone doesn't have any material options, has a lot of kids, wants to give their kid up for adoption, and then adopts someone else's kid. It's naive for someone to believe it. The third question – is it true and why this contract between Galenika and Velefarm was concluded on December 9th, where Galenika needs Velefarm to sell medicine for 1,100,000 euros? Is it true that the contract was concluded the day before the drug collection, and is it true that the deadline for paying these drugs is 210 days from the day of delivery? There's something about it written here, but I want to hear it from a government official. What is the production of Galenika drugs for 1,100,000 euros? Is it even a contract that has some real basis in the interest of poor Serbian citizens, to supply themselves with cheap drugs, or is it something else in the middle? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14395	Thank you. You asked three questions. Mr. Dinkic will give you the answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14396	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first question was about free action. As you know, a year ago, at the end of 2007, the National Assembly passed the Law on Free Action, which predicted that all full-time citizens would receive free shares from companies privatised from 2001 to today and free action from the most valuable Serbian public enterprises. That law will be respected. We will adapt the law to the existing circumstances by amending the law, and the value of the actions will depend on the moment they are sold on the market. At the moment the law was passed, in December 2007, the actions of all world stock companies on the world stock exchanges were many more than they are today. It's a reality, it's true, and I don't believe anyone here has anything to say. That's the facts. Today, actions and the world's largest banks, the world's largest companies, are worth twice as much, are much lower than they were a year ago. Could anyone have predicted that such a sunflower would take place on the world market? I didn't, and I believe none of you did, because nobody said it then. Of course, it is our duty to enforce the law. The law provides for deadlines in which actions are shared. However, we first set out to sell shares to now privatised companies and managed to charge 7,300,000 dinars from companies. We managed to do that in the first half of last year before the crisis started. Some other companies, which had until the end of last year to carry out their obligation, were simply not able, because the alternative was that if they paid the state to buy those actions, then they could close their plants in Serbia and the damage would be greater than the benefit. That is why we have to amend the law and adapt it to the current circumstances. That's what we're going to do within the Ministry of Economy in April and we're going to propose it to the government. I believe the Assembly will be submitted for consideration by the end of June. What are we gonna do? First, 800,000 people appeared more than we've projected. As a result, we will include actions by some other companies for free distribution. In addition to the actions we have already provided for by the existing law, we will propose that the actions of the Commercial Bank, which is the largest and most valuable bank in Serbia, be included in the "Dunav Insurance", we are also considering the possibility of including public utility actions, i.e. only those that will be the subject of privatisation in some future. Of course, this has to be discussed first, before the proposal comes to the Assembly, to be declared by the Government. As for the actions that have been the subject of privatisation so far, given that they are actions of companies such as Philip Morris, the "Duvanian Industry Vranje", we will suggest that all these actions be sublimated, included and that a special fund be created that will actually be the current Action Fund, which will continue to manage these actions, and that citizens will be able, at the moment they wish, to collect those shares at market value. My assessment was, and it was true then, that this package of actions we proposed was worth 1,000 euros in December 2007. That's when I graded it, and I'm behind that assessment. Today, all these companies have a lower market value of shares, as well as all other companies in the world. How much money a citizen will get from action, he'll depend, I repeat, from the moment he sells them. If he sells them at the moment of the biggest crisis, they'll get the least. If he keeps them and sells them later, he'll get more. People will get the chance to decide for themselves. The law did not foresee the value of the action to be paid, but rather the obligation to share concrete actions free of charge. I repeat, that value will depend on the time when they are marketed. It's similar to the case of old foreign savings. Those who wanted to sell their foreign exchange savings immediately, in 2002, in addition to the discount, were given a relatively lower rate than those who charge in full today. Of course, even less than those who could wait and raise 2015-2016, when the deadline. They'll get 100%. From the moment someone needs money, they'll depend on their value. In times of crisis, it will be the least of value. Our recommendation will be that these actions be immediately marketed by only those citizens who really have to. Otherwise, a new version of the law will provide for the distribution of shares immediately following the adoption of laws for those companies already corporated, while the proposal to distribute company actions such as EPS, which are not yet corporateised, is carried out after its corporateisation. So much for free action. As far as joint investment with Fiat is concerned, it is not true MP Batic's claim that Fiat is firing his workers, but it is true that Fiat, like all other companies in the automotive industry, has difficulties. The global crisis hit the car industry first, because the car demand fell and the sales related. Fiat factories in Poland are working three shifts today. Fiat's factory in Brazil works in two shifts. The problem is in Italy, because production is three times more expensive than in Poland, and it is more expensive than it will be in Kragujevac. It is true that Fiat has problems explaining to its own workers and its own government that it is investing in another country without at the same time being able to employ its workers in its own country. As a result, the launch of a new model will certainly be delayed for a certain period. According to the current talks we have, they estimate they'll launch it instead of early next year at the end of next year. What's more important is the fact that the Kragueva factory, regardless of not producing a new model this year, will make the existing model "full", achieve multiple productions than ever in the last 20 years. Last year, a total of 10,000 cars of all kinds were produced in Kragujevac, from "South" to "Staff 10", and this year the minimum production will be 15,000 cars. However, given the effects of the government's programme of measures and demand for "punta", which has been created because of the favourable loans the government is offering, we are convinced that this volume of production will be repeatedly exceeded and will exceed all expectations. The fact that in just two days, after a package of government measures entered into force, 650 vehicles were sold, and another 3,200 vehicles were reserved, says that this production has a perspective and that all those skeptics who said no one would buy that car are now silent. They will also silence skeptics like Mr Batic when a new car model is launched in Kragujevac. You will remember this day, when you said this, the moment I invite you to Kragujevac to take a look at this new model with me that Fiat will launch. I would also like to say that today the government adopted at its session, like other European countries, and a program to replace old cars for a new "full". The programme envisions a 1,000-euro grant to all citizens who want to replace their old car, if it is over 10 years old, if registered, if it is in the driver's condition, for a new "full". The process will also encourage the recycling industry in Serbia for the first time. So far, nine companies in Serbia have met the environment ministry's conditions to begin the process, and the process will be carried out by citizens driving their old car to the recycling plant. Many of you and citizens certainly don't know that even 70% of the old car can be used and used as recycled. Metal is used in steel, in the metal industry. There's a lot to go on. The glass also has its application. Tires are used to produce children's sportsterens. What developed countries are now doing will soon be done by Serbia. This programme starts in a month and will coincide with the start of the production of "punta" in Kragujevac. Of course, we asked Fiat to localize most of the production, i.e. that the parts for "punto" are supplied by domestic producers. Sombor's Black Horsa and Ju-Es style for the production of limes, and we expect that during the time of the "Punto" it will become a more and more domestic product. But even until then, from one "punta" to the flag's workers, it remains 722 euros. These are labour costs, energy costs used there, and 18% of them go into Serbia's budget as VAT. So, I think this new replacement program will also have a huge success, like the model of subsidized consumer loans. The government, of course, will consider, given the great interest of Serbian citizens, the possibility that when the action is realised, the number of cars we will offer will increase. So far, we're starting 5,000 cars in the government program. If there really is demand, we're going to increase that number. We're doing three positive effects. All these models produced in Kragujevac have a standard engine of at least euro four, car production with a Euro Five diesel engine starts as of the summer. We will increase security on the road, because Serbian citizens are largely driving cars over the age of ten with faulty brakes, with incorrect signalling and, of course, we will help Kragujevci to increase production. So much for answering these two questions. As far as the third question is concerned, at this point there is no minister in this room who has information about this case and the Government is obliged, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to provide the MP with a written reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14397	Thank you. Mr Batic, in accordance with Article 209, has the right to two questions for up to three minutes, and then the minister will be able to respond for up to five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14398	Mr. Vice President, I didn't expect you to take over the role of Kalimera, to discuss injustice and the global economic crisis. I asked for a concrete answer to specific questions. You have deceived Serbian citizens about the value of actions they will be able to collect. Now you citizens of Serbia, which reminds very much of Milosevic's time, who said sanctions can be encouraging to operate on some branches of the economy, that Serbia can feed and heat half of Europe, now you are offering Serbian citizens to be Trnova Ruzica, to be patient, so when they wake up one day, then their actions will be worth a lot of money. Answer when they can charge, what (100 euros, 50 euros, 5 euros) and where, from which funds. You need five billion euros. Explain what alchemy can provide five billion euros. Well, anything to sell, it doesn't have five billion euros. Well, fair enough. In the election campaign, I wasn't telling the truth, I'm sorry, or say, since I wasn't telling the truth, the principle of responsibility and responsibility is forcing me to resign. As for the flag, Mr. Dinkich, you don't believe in witches, do you? You're offering us a parallel with Poland and Brazil. These Fiat factories worked a long time ago, and now Fiat's not investing anything. He's supposed to invest a lot of money here. There would be a revolution in Italy. I said, they'll fire the workers because there's no solution. Imagine what unions would do, because there are real unions in serious democratic countries, unlike Serbia. The story of domestic production, the "puntu" old for new -- it's crumbs, it's a colorful lie, it's a sweet scam. That's not gonna happen. Another question – how does "punto" have the status of a domestic vehicle when nothing on it is possible? You're planning on putting in the cables here, the tires and the batteries, but they're still not putting in. When's Ju-Es style going to make glaucoma, chess? How long does it take to make these lines? And the Ju-Es style doesn't work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14399	Thank you. Mr. Dinkic. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14400	I will answer you as directly as possible to this first question. At the moment we passed the law in the Assembly, I publicly said that, we expected about four million citizens to apply for free action. About 800,000 more reported. It's our error in judgment. The second thing is, how did we get the estimated amount of thousands of euros? By estimating, given that the process of IPO, i.e. the initial bid for EPS, was envisaged for 2011, and given the current accounting value of the EPS and the fact that Serbia will, meanwhile, invest additionally in the construction of new thermoelectric power plants, the market value of the EPS in 2011 would have to be at least 15 billion euros, given that the accounting value was about seven-eight billion a year ago. Furthermore, we calculated that Telekom could in that year, so I'm talking about the end of 2007, on the market in a transparent tender to get a price of about six billion euros. Why? Because, if you remember, in 2006, we received the privatisation of Mobtel for most people in Serbia an unexpected amount of one billion and a half euros, and we sold the Austrians air for 320m euros for a third licence. We in 2006 (you can speak in one way or another, but these are facts) only from Mobtel and from the third license have achieved such a privatisation income that gave us the basis to believe that Telekom Serbia at the moment of a good privatisation position on the world market can have a price of about six billion. My assessment was, I do not hide, that NIS was worth at least four billion euros in the market at the end of 2007 (not 50%, but 100% of NIS). It was my assessment and I'm not giving up on it today, because there were interested partners who at the time the government had a strategy to privatise NIS offered a minimum of three and a half billion. I believed that in one competitive tender, like we did for Mobtel, we could make those four billion for 100% of the capital. For these three other companies - Airport, Jat, Galenika - the plan was to achieve up to one billion euros, because these companies are less valuable, where the airport is probably the most valuable, then Galenika, and Jat at least (which turned out to be no one in the tender wanted to offer even 100m euros to Jat), and that we will get about 250m euros from the sale of shares of already privatised companies, which have been privatised since 2001-2007. We got one piece of it, but we didn't make it out of everybody. We haven't made it since Philip Morris, we haven't been able to charge any of the other companies, because because of the global crisis in the second half of the year they didn't have enough liquidity to buy 70% of their country's shares at the same price. When you add this up, when you take 15% of this number I've told you, you get about four billion euros. For four million people, as far as we planned to report it, it was supposed to be a thousand euros. Since 800,000 people have reported more, we have decided to increase the number of companies whose free stock will be offered. I repeat, we will propose that the subject be free of charge and the actions of the Commercial Bank, and the action of the Danube Insurance, as well as those of public utility companies that will be the subject of privatisation in the future, such as in the area of water industry, means dumps, and various other areas that should otherwise be the subject of privatisation in the future. How much and when will Serbian citizens be able to collect from free shares? First, answer the question - when. They'll be able to charge the ones they want this year. So, people will get action in hands this year, but this year, if they sell them, they'll get less than they can get when the world comes out of crisis. If someone wants to disprove it, it's really not well-intentioned. Why can they charge less today than tomorrow? It is logical that at the time of the upcoming line in the world economy, the price of shares will be higher, not only in Serbia, but throughout the world. Another question about...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14401	Mr. Dinkic, according to the Rules of Procedure, you can't take more than five minutes, there will be an opportunity. I give my word to MP Mom Colakovic, representative of the PUPS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14402	Dear Presidents, the presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, Vice-President and Ministers, honourable MPs, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia at the end of December, which accurately found that 12 pensions would be paid in 2009. Also, in early January, the National Assembly passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act, which specifically states that pensions will not grow in 2009, but will not fall. Lately, a part of the government of Serbia and Mr. Jelasic, the governor of the National Bank, have advocated a reduction in pensions, on several occasions. We reacted on several occasions to these phenomena. In view of the fact that both the Serbian government and the governor of the National Bank, Mr Jelasic are part of the ruling coalition, we do not think they could advocate a violation of the Law on Budgetary and Violation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension-Invalid Insurance. Such announcements, these reactions by these officials further harass pensioners and their families. In this regard, I ask – will the Government of the Republic of Serbia discuss these announcements and will ensure that pensions are paid regularly, at the level established by these laws? I have two additional questions about that. The PUPS parliamentary group has insisted, the government has accepted this, to provide for specific intervention funds in cases of the largest economic and financial crisis to families that are poorest in Serbia. Of course, there are a huge number of pensioners among them. I ask the question – is this intervention envisaged in the budget of the Republic of Serbia or by some other means? Third question. Our parliamentary group also insisted on several occasions that a response be given to pensioners and military pensioners' payments. What are the possibilities in 2009 for these interventions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14403	Thank you. The answer to three questions. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14404	I won't use all the time to make the debate more dynamic, but we have a few important questions here, so I want to answer them. First, when it comes to pensioners, because there are various speculations and ideas that could result in a riot payment, a reduction in pensions etc., I would like to say, regardless of all difficulties, just from the principle of solidarity, which I was talking about as a basis, based on which this programme of measures has been established, we will ensure that, during this year, what is foreseen by the budget, when it comes to pensioners and employees, we do our duty to them. Although certain changes in the figures would occur, the budget rebalance etc., which is not yet on the agenda but will be considered, one of the main items will be to ensure that these very layers are protected through solidarity and that they can count on it. As for interventions for the poorest, a programme under the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is under way. I can't talk about the details of this program, he needs to go through more internal procedures, but the fact that it's working on that program is just about thinking about it and it's going to be published in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14405	Thank you. I give my word to MP Zlata Djeric, as representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14406	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, the honourable members of the government, since Mr. Agriculture Minister Sasa Dragin is not present, I expect that the prime minister will answer or convey the parliamentary question I am asking for this speaker again, because I have an obligation, above all, to the citizens of Somboro, where I come from. In Sombor, it has been auctioned in the last three years for 10,000 hectares of the state country, among other things, between two entities, the private company Višnja Product and the private face of Milet Jerkovic. This cherry product is owned by him. The 10,000 hectares of the country, which have been auctioned three years consecutively, made a debt to the municipality of Sombor, according to the Vojvodina budget and to the Republika Srpska budget of threem euros. That's not charged until today. Of course, if we include the interest, I suppose Mr Dinkic will immediately be able to see how big the figure is and how much it is, if the debt is charged, by solving the crisis in Serbia or by helping to get out of the crisis this year in Serbia. I'm interested in what, first of all, we're interested in Somboro. Who in the Ministry of Agriculture kept them in the drawer (we are looking for the name and last name) of the bank guarantee, did not release them (which he had to do by law), enabled a person who had failed to carry out the first year of his obligation and for the first year made a debt of 1m euros to make this debt, not to do it, to do this much damage to us, and to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and to the budget of the province of Vojvodina? Among other things, it's important that you know, of these 10,000 acres of land, 5,000 acres is held in full parloga. It's a multiple damage, which can't just be compensated and removed quickly. We really expect to get the answer as soon as possible. The second question I have to ask is about the pensions of the peasants, the public debt to the peasants, to the users of the agricultural pensions, that is, when will what the state remains in debt to the peasants be paid? Several times that deadline has been postponed. I ask you to bear in mind that these are the people whose pensions are the lowest, that they are the people who have come to their pensions the hardest and that they have fully and fully paid for them. It is not correct that our farmers, an old category over 70 years of age, are severely ill, those who cannot afford any other social benefits as a privilege, those who cannot even charge their own funeral costs no matter what they pay for socially, wait this long. So I expect an answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14407	Thank you. You asked two questions. Mr. President will answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14408	About the first question, we're going to write it down because I really don't know what it's about in Somboro, and as you said, the Minister of Agriculture isn't here. On the second question, I want to say that the government has taken a commitment (when I say government, I mean not our government, but governments in the last few years) to pay the so-called old debt made to pensioners. They were pensioners of two kinds. One kind of pensioner is these 'classical', and the other one was agricultural pensioners. The so-called large debt was paid in the annual wars, so that during the calendar year 2008, it was regulated as a whole by the 'classical' pensioners and there is no longer a government obligation. As for agricultural pensioners, there is still another war left to be paid in early 2010.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14409	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Djeric has a question. You have the right to two questions for up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14410	I'll be very brief. I've prepared to ask Mr. Agriculture Minister a question. Since we received information in the material that he will be present, I'm surprised he's not here. We were expecting him and asking the government not to practice in the future, that the minister who was announced would not come so that he could respond immediately. Believe me, citizens expect in a direct transfer of answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14411	I give my word to the MP representative of the Group of Minorities to Mr. Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14412	I would like to ask a few questions on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. First of all, I want to draw attention to the fact that when we talk about the global economic crisis in Serbia, we can say that in our country it affects agriculture, or agricultural producers. We all know that most of the exports are made from agricultural production and that only agricultural products can compete with countries in the environment. We, SVM representatives, believe that Serbia is the only possible way to overcome the economic crisis by investing as much as possible in agriculture. They are the only products we can safely export and compete with on the EU market and beyond. If we start and improve agricultural production, it will affect the processing industry, trade and other industries. We need to remind ourselves of a folk proverb that says, "The rich peasant, rich country," and we have to act accordingly. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to tell you that for us, the most important thing is that this government provides every agricultural producer with the same conditions for production, not as you have laid down a regulation regarding the subsidisation of agricultural land. We think all manufacturers are the same. Since agriculture minister Dr Sasa Dragan is absent, I have more questions for you through which we will point to the failures of the Ministry of Agriculture. What makes this version of subsidisation better than the previous one since last year? Please explain why this variant is more acceptable to you, when we know that these subsidies will be used from now on by 70,000 agricultural holdings, and in the previous year they were used by nearly 500,000. We know that you want to exclude tycoons from this decision, and you should consider that with this decision you have excluded a large number of families, families of agricultural producers who have been the only source of income for decades. We want you to review the method of subsidisation, and we suggest that you allow manufacturers more favourable conditions and deadlines for payment of contributions last year. I repeat, the state is slowly destroying a branch of the economy that can help us get out of the crisis. The second topic is about dairy producers and I want to answer a group of questions. Who allowed the import of powdered milk into Serbia? Who are the importers? How much has been imported so far? Has the correctness control of imported milk been carried out and at which institute? Is it indicated on milk products that these are milk powder products? We believe that this import has made it impossible for small and medium-sized dairy producers, not to say that you have put the health of citizens at risk. Here's the third question and I'm slowly finishing up. There's a serious problem with the tobacco manufacturer. What are the options of the tobacco manufacturer? Will it be a subsidy and how will it be paid? We find it absolutely unacceptable that the producers of tobacco premiums didn't get in the last year. Measures can't be helped to eliminate retroactively because manufacturers couldn't know, when they planted tobacco, that they couldn't count on state aid. Dear Prime Minister, we expect sincere and not political answers from you. Thank you, and I'm sorry for the time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14413	Thank you. You asked three questions, you have three minutes each, so it was fine. Mr. Cvetkovic, Prime Minister, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14414	I'm just going to say very briefly that your assessment that agricultural production is the most endangered in the crisis is not something we have as an estimate. On the contrary, our assessment is that agricultural production and food production will be the least affected by the crisis. The crisis most affects the very branches that are related to lending. And in the world, if you followed, the automotive industry was the most affected, and then in the chain, metals, etc. So maybe we're starting from some different starting points. As for these two direct questions relating to agriculture, I would ask you to accept that we will later give an answer because I really am not an expert on them, but when it comes to milk, we have here a minister who can give an answer to that question, so I call on him to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14415	Thank you. Mr. Milosavljevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14416	Thank you. As with other products, imports of powdered milk are not prohibited. The problem was partly due to the suspension of the levies, which stood for the EU countries, and today stands at 56 dinars, and for imports from other or third markets 70 dinars. It was the government's decision on the proposal of the then Minister of Trade from December 2007, with a deadline in which the milk powder was imported without levies from the end of 2007 to April 2008. In that period, around 1,047 tonnes of powdered milk were imported, totaling 3,400 tonnes throughout 2008. The biggest importers, not to say 90% of imports were made by Serbia's conditioning industry, since they were, and then, as now, dissatisfied with the level of milk powder price on the domestic market compared to the price they could get on imports. However, since only the conditory industry spends nearly tens of thousands of tons of milk powder annually, it certainly could not have caused the problems of this level, which we had and we still have with the production of milk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14417	Thank you, Mr. Milosavlovich. I give my word to the MP to the representative of the LDP parliamentary group, Mr Ostojic. Excuse me, did you want a question? You're right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14418	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, since you have insight into subsidies, I still want you to answer my question about the subsidy of agricultural producers - how are we doing with last year's subsidies, why are they not paid? As for our expectations, MP SVM, they're clear. We ask you, once again, to reconsider the way, the circle of faces and deadlines related to the subsidisation of agricultural land. We believe that some subsidy regulations even 70-80% of producers are not satisfied. Next, we're looking for a complete ban on imports of powdered milk. We believe that further imports will make it impossible for small and medium milk producers, not to say that you will endanger the health of citizens, who don't even know what products they buy, of which milk products are made. I'm still asking you to influence the Ministry of Agriculture to pay more urgently unpaid subsidies to farmers for 2008. We know very well that the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia relating to agriculture has not been allocated in the best way. We ask you to fight the 2009 budget, together with the Minister of Agriculture, for significantly more funds for the Ministry of Agriculture. If this government wants to get out of this crisis as soon as possible, painlessly, smartly and plannedly, that is, to prevail, we should seriously work to strengthen agricultural production. It may be the only way we can get out of this deep crisis and overcome the verse that awaits us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14419	Thank you. I give my word to the MP to the representative of the LDP parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14420	President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, at the beginning of something to clarify, Mrs. Dejanovic. I'm gonna ask three questions and I'm entitled to nine minutes, so don't give me this time. Just one note to the ruling majority. It is touching your ability to make a mockery of the democratic institutions and institutions of the state and God's punishment. The parliamentary issues are a democratic achievement, and here's what it's become. You have made a scenario in which only nine MPs can ask questions because ministers spend time. I ask Mrs Dejanovic to take the time precisely because the ministers are overdoing it, so the ninth MP, and he's from the opposition, may not get the answers. So no government in any normal country has taken measures this late and has tried to bring them alone, without parliament's support, without public support. In all countries, parliament voted on it. We instead, instead of a session in which parliament will support, improve the government's measures, we have this circus, which today has been staged by the ruling majority. You, Mr. Cvetkovic, unfortunately, have defined yourself for such a solution even though we have warned you since early September that the government will be responsible for the coming crisis. Then your ministers said that the crisis is a challenge for Serbia, that we are an isolated island where investments are going to rush, and today every member of the government is talking about the crisis as an excuse. It's been six months since September. During that period, you ignored all the proposals coming from the LDP, including that key, to adopt measures here. It's not the job of the opposition MPs. It was supposed to be the government's job if you wanted those measures to have the support of the people. If we had talked more seriously about this, you wouldn't be the only one responsible for what the numbers are. Yesterday, the Bureau of Statistics announced that the average earnings were paid in January by as little as 17.9% in real terms than those paid in December 2008. Industrial production in December 2008 was 8.9% lower than in December 2007. In our proposal to you, which we called "the deal for the future", we suggested that the excise duty be reduced, especially for those products that everyone must buy, depending on the standard of citizens and the work of the economy. First of all, we suggested reducing the excise duty on oil derivatives. You've done everything the other way around. You increased excise duties on oil derivatives even though you had experience from the previous government that the increase in excise duties did not lead to an increase in budget revenues. To make the thing worse, you even gave up the profit (and that big profit for 2008) of NIS, which was big because of the high price of oil on the world market, and you gave it to Gazprom and the Russian partner in that anti-constitutional privatisation. We still think, I'm saying this for the citizens, because it's not worth telling you, you've adopted measures that we've come to know from a press conference that we can only talk about today based on news reports from that press conference, because the paper on your measures in the Assembly hasn't arrived, unless we're counting this seminar work from December, which is called the 'Framework Programme'. We've suggested multiple times - tax those who are monopolies, who have extraprofits. We were thinking about NIS before the Russians took over. We suggested that you raise your ore rent from those ridiculous 3%. You didn't do it either. We've been knocking on for the next 30 years that the owner of the country's assets is taking care of our natural wealth. Our measures we proposed weren't as demagogue as yours. They would ensure budgeting, but the burden and cost schedule would be fairer. You keep pointing out that your measures meet three criteria - unity, solidarity and continuity. We are currently seeing this continuity, with the previous government, in many ways. There's nothing out of unity. Because if you wanted unity, you'd come here, you'd get support and opposition MPs, because we're all aware that the crisis is knocking on our door. But you have defined yourself for this sectarian approach, that only the ruling majority and the government have the right to bring measures, worth 1,200,000 euros. Speaking of righteousness and responsibility to the most vulnerable, because people die in Serbia today because of cold and hunger, I don't need to remind you, you should know that in January, food sales fell almost 50%. But let's talk about responsibility to the most vulnerable. Otherwise, there's only one note, in my presentation there's probably a questionable sentence. Don't write those questions down. In the end, I'm going to formulate three questions to which I expect an answer, so you don't answer something that I don't think needs to be answered, which is just rhetoric. Which of these three principles did you apply when you made a decision, Mr. Cvetkovic, to hide from the public that you were spending $1 million to correct the mistakes of state and state officials? Could it have been solidarity and justice? Let me remind you, for the citizens, what million dollars it is. That's 70 million. This year, for subsidies, for housing loans, you set aside 350 million. That's a quarter of the amount that's set aside for housing loans. We don't think that's right or fair. It may be solidarity, but with whoever allowed Kovacevic to escape justice or Kovacevic himself. And we have another question – why are you stopping the growth of the construction industry? We suggested reducing VAT because the construction industry is the most serious branch that pushes the economy. The multiplier effect of the building is great on economic development. You, on the other hand, have drastically reduced subsidies to residential loans. According to the National Credit Insurance Corporation, the total amount of secured housing loans exceeded 1.4 billion euros, of which 240m euros for loans under the age of 45 years, and you have defined only 350m or less than fourm euros this year. So the government has singled out 350m dinars for housing subsidies to all interested citizens, and for only one man, in the case of Miladin Kovacevic, over 70m. Do you really think selling what the people call "Zunto" -- "Punto flag", 600 pieces, even if it was recycled 600 old vehicles, will be able to start an economy like that, for example, the construction industry that you didn't give a boost to? In the end, three questions. First of all, do you and the ministers in your government have a stomachache or do you feel uncomfortable when you say these months that for all the excuses of the economic crisis in the world, in light of the fact that at first you said that this was a chance for us? The second question, by which criteria, solidarity or continuity with the previous government did you manage when you made a secret decision that protected someone who did great damage to Serbia? Third, do you really think that the state should be so rich and the citizens so poor, and that's justice, and that's the right way out of the crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14421	Thank you. I'd just like to inform you that so far, members of the government have spoken for a total of 39 minutes. The working day will end when the time is 180 minutes. So we can ask questions until then. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14422	I'll try to answer questions though I have to say that setting them up looked more like a political speech to me, but I guess that's why Parliament did. That speech said some things that I think contain a material error. The material error is that this parliament has not taken measures. All the measures have been taken in parliament. Let me tell you that this Parliament has adopted the budget and that, in the framework of the adoption of the budget, it has provided for the amounts of subsidies that we have used to boost liquidity, encourage demand. So all this stuff we're talking about is in the budget. If it weren't for that, the government wouldn't be able to bring any measure. Parliament also passed laws that define an increase in the security level of deposits and literally behind all that we are considering is Parliament. Of course, parliament does not deal with the running executive policy. In this context, it is also given to see what it is that can now be derived from these views, but there is literally no position in which the government has exceeded its powers and has taken over the role of parliament. In a similar way, it is done in other countries, with other countries, which are richer than us, having measures that are measured in billions. These measures are also adopted by their parliaments, in the same way our parliament adopted these incentives. Now I would refer to a case which, truth be told, is not the subject of today's conversation, but I see that he has found places in this debate as well. It's so-called. The Kovacevic case, and I'd say a few sentences. First, I would like to tell the citizens that what the government is doing is related to the case in their best and deepest interest, and to the taxpayers to tell them that there are any speculations about how they pay something, etc. And also in their best interest, which is viewed above all in that we want to have the best relations with one of the world's greatest forces. Let's not mix that up with any other stuff right now. So this is about something really in the best interests of working people and citizens. I can't talk about it any more now, because it's a state secret, but I'll be ready and in the mood when it comes down to the code of state secrets, i.e.. When this process is over, let's talk about everything very closely. On the other hand, I was very surprised that someone was surprised that the negotiating platform was a state secret. Please, who's the one who takes his negotiating platform and publishes it in the paper? And not only when it comes to such things, but also commercial negotiations are a state secret. The third thing I want to say about this is that we don't have any problems with the press, and it's quite a substitute for the thesis that someone here is putting pressure on the press or anyone. On the contrary, this is not about that, it's about a regular process that the government is conducting, as I said, in the best interests of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14423	Thank you. Would you like to ask a question? Here, you have the right to two questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14424	Mr. Prime Minister, parliament has not adopted these measures. The adoption of the budget was not about adopting these measures. We didn't give amendments to the budget just because we knew you'd be back for rebalancing in two months. Because who in their right mind thought it could be 3.5% growth, how did you predict in the budget? Special measures have been adopted in all countries in parliament. Those aren't budgets. You know what, you haven't answered my question about how you feel, whether you're uncomfortable, you and your ministers, when you say that the crisis is an excuse for everything, and until a month ago, you were talking about how that was a chance. We had one chance in 1992, when sanctions were imposed. And then it was a chance, remember, and it ended the way it ended. I'm not asking about the state secret. I just asked you what criteria led you -- solidarity, justice -- when you made that decision. You say, Mr. Cvetkovic, no one announces a negotiating platform. What are we negotiating? About broken relations with the U.S.? And why are they broken? Well, for someone from the state. Do you really think that Viceconsul could have made the kind of decision he made, the anti-zakonite, that would have destroyed his life? Who's normal to bring it? You weren't the Prime Minister at the time, you were the second man in charge of the government, the man who was Prime Minister when the US Embassy in Belgrade was burned, but he was the same foreign minister, both in that government and in your government, and he was directly in charge of the viceconsul that did it. So I'm asking you what the criteria were when you brought it in, and you're saying, we fix relationships. But why did we spoil them? Are we going to fix relationships and make citizens pay for it without having any responsibility for these corrupt relationships? Is there going to be a responsible person who has abused the official position of being struck by the sunbath? You haven't answered my question, which is terribly important to me. Do you admit that you didn't respond to the crisis in time? In September, you accused us of spreading panic. In the end, marketing may result in elections, mantrafree shares may have yielded results, but marketing cannot rule without citizens feeling better than that. Instead of free shares today, we have a mantra "punto". It's not an election, Mr. Prime Minister. You have a mandate ahead of you that will depend on the ability of your ruling coalition. Please, listen to LDP for once, we're not suggesting anything that's not in the interest. To listen to us, the only problem is - you have to reduce the state and leave more money to the citizens and businesses. If you don't cut down on the advisors, the ministry, and we've suggested that, we're not gonna do anything about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14425	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14426	I'll just give half the answer, and then I'll give the word to my colleague. The question is who is normal that four months ago predicts a GDP growth rate of 3.5%, and now estimates lower. My answer is - most economists in the world are normal and most, even many who are more professional than us, almost every month in the last four or five months change the projection in their countries down, so we are not the exception. Secondly, I would like to say, for the sake of information, that, in the context of the talks that have been held, there was also a conversation with the LDP parliamentary group. The conversation, however, also had more political character and less economical, although it itself expected to be more economic. Anyway, it's been nice talking to you and seeing what anyone can give. The proposals that followed were not intended to comment because I don't think a consistent approach could be made based on them, because they actually proposed something that is contrary to what is happening to us, although it's not bad in itself. So they also proposed a reduction in VAT, which would be excellent and that many countries that had reserves on the side applied. We don't have those reserves and a reduction in VAT would in our case, as well as a reduction in excise duties, only cause additional deficits. There was also a proposed increase in subsidies, which is also one aspect of an increase in the budget deficit, and that is why we came up with the proposal we made, and the proposals to increase fiscal inflows were related to extraprofits, etc., which was extremely impossible to do consistently. I've got five minutes. I'm letting my colleague Dinkic answer the second part.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14427	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Dinkich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14428	Thank you. I'd like to supplement this answer. Namely, when does the government go to the Assembly to ask parliament to agree on some economic measures? The moment he wants to spend more money from the budget than the Assembly has approved or if he wants to lead to the adoption of a new law that produces some economic effects that the Assembly must give consent to. As far as the law goes, you've got the answer. The law by which we have raised secured deposits to 50,000 euros and for this year we have abolished the interest on savings you have just ratified, by voting here in the Assembly, and these laws have already shown positive effects because in the first two months of this year we have received a rise in savings deposits in our banks. In two months, Serbian citizens passed 130m euros in bank savings, probably because we made a decision in time to raise a secured deposit and abolish the interest tax on savings. So we, unlike some other countries you mention, are not asking for more taxpayers' money to fight the negative effects of the crisis. Unlike us, Americans do. Americans use huge funds of their taxpayers to nationalize some of their banks, one of them goes bankrupt, and you hear it yourself, if you follow, and I'm sure you're all following the information, thinking about nationalizing the City of the Bank. The Germans made a decision last week to nationalize their Hipo Ril State Bank. Thus, many countries have used much larger taxpayers' resources to fight the crisis. Why didn't we do it? Why didn't we come to parliament? Because we didn't need to, because our banking system has a capital ratio of as much as 30%, which means that the reserve that each bank must hold at any time is 30% of the deposit value, while in the EU is below 10%. Today, in recent weeks, the European Commission has asked for this level of capital adequacy in European banks to rise to 15%, which will continue to be a double level of security than Serbian banks do. So we had a well-organized banking system from the previous period, which has now saved us. The program we launched actually had a tendency to face the real consequences of the global crisis on us. The real consequences are - a smaller flow of foreign exchange due to smaller cross-border loans, (President: Time, Mr Dinkic). ) and that's why we approved the business lending program, because we noticed a big relationship between the credit economy... (President: I thank you, and you will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14429	I give my word to MP Milan J. Nikolic as representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14430	Dear Presidency, Honorable Prime Minister and Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would like first of all to point out that the good practice we are introducing is that in direct contact with the MPs and representatives of the Government, very important issues are raised and that the citizens of Serbia are most directly familiar with the problems that exist in this country. I would like to remind you that Serbia's economy has been in serious trouble since 1992. There's been a break-up in the former Yugoslavia. Many cooperative and repro chains are broken. After that, there was an embargo, a loss of supply and placement markets. It was a real skill to preserve the economy in these conditions, and at the same time it had to be spent a lot. After that comes, I would say, as in all countries, to severe transition processes. The Serbian economy is very fragile, with no liquid assets and in a very difficult situation. Now there's also a severe economic crisis. I ask the representatives of the government - what does the Government do specifically to help the economy survive? What are the concrete incentive measures, and what will further be done to survive this wave of economic crisis in economic continuity? Secondly, given the dramatic differences in the level of development of individual regions in Serbia, are further incentives for undeveloped ones being envisaged? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14431	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word is Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14432	Under the programme, prepared in January, the government brought in weeks ago, and started implementing on Monday, several incentivising measures. We came from the questions we asked ourselves - what is currently the biggest problem in the Serbian economy? The answer is that the problem is the banks stopped lending. It is, in fact, the problem of the global economic crisis. In the world we had in previous years a big credit expansion, we actually had what analysts, and sometimes the opposition, resented our government, which is that far more was spent than was created. Why did the world get in a crisis? Because crediting in previous years was much higher than what was actually created, it raised the level of production, employment, and then some banking placements ended up in places where they didn't have to, in other words they were badly placed, so that balloon broke. When that balloon broke, then there was a spilling of effects from the financial sector into the real sector of the economy. Less credit means less opportunity to spend citizens. If citizens spend less, then less is produced, because there's no one to sell goods to. In fact, what developed countries have tried and tried to do, with greater or less success, is two things. One is to stimulate banks to work, to borrow again, no matter what they're afraid of losing. The second thing, they try to encourage citizens to spend more, to increase demand and demand for products to increase employment. As for Serbia, we also have confusion, which has been caused by the public because it has justifiably been said that the state should save, but some have realised that this should refer to the entire population. The message for citizens is, in fact, that the state needs to save and reduce some unproductive expenditure, and everyone who asks for it is absolutely right. But citizens should be encouraged, those who can, of course, spend as much as possible and that we, by the measures we have brought, encourage them to buy domestic products. It was a model we adopted, which is consumer credits for the purchase of permanent goods produced in Serbia. When some MPs underestimate these effects that we saw at the outset, which is that "the flag 10" is literally broken down in two days and that another 2,300 cars have been booked, so the maltene is three or four thousand cars either sold or booked for the next period, they should not underestimate that they are real cars, that they are real citizens who want to buy that car and that this is the first time that some government has allowed people to buy such small money and under such favourable conditions to buy a car. I don't know why some are against allowing those who don't have money to buy a "full" of 5,999 euros, or 1,000 euros more if bank loans are granted. Isn't it the goal of all of us to make it possible for people to live normal? We all have in our programs that we want European standards for our citizens. At least in one segment, they can use it now. The second group of measures we took are measures to credit the economy. We have seen that there is inequitableness in the economy for the simple reason that foreign banks have stopped providing cross-border loans to the extent they've done so before. They haven't stopped completely, but they've significantly reduced the volume. That's why we introduced this liquidity loan measure, at half interest, which we subsidize, to actually encourage businesses to maintain economic activity and the number of employees. In doing so, I stress, we use minimum budgets and that is the virtue of the government's programme. The virtue is that we didn't come to the Assembly to look for bigger money, but to use minimal funds to boost the great potential of the banks, which has been put to sleep. So one billion dinars of funds from the bank's budget will cost 20 billion. In this way, with three billion funding from the budget, we managed to launch a 60 billion-dollar lending process for liquidity loans and for consumer loans. We also set aside five billion from the Development Fund, to encourage investment lending totalling 17 billion. So I think the good side of the government's programme is exactly what we're using minimum budget funds and we expect banks to place as much money as possible in each other's competition. Namely, there is a strong link between the level of credit ratings, the level of business activity and the level of employees. In previous years, we have had strong credit activity every year. This led to a growth of gross domestic product on average of 7% annually, as well as a decrease in otherwise high unemployment. So the model of success in overcoming the effects of the crisis is just to maintain as high a level of economic activity as possible, to encourage demand for domestic products and, of course, to solve other problems that we see. We see a chain of indifference that exists in the economy. That is why all of us in the government that are dealing with economic resources are intensively talking to the prime minister, the finance minister, how to solve this problem. There are several possibilities, and I am convinced that in March we will come out with the addition of our existing programme, so that we can solve these new problems that we see in the economy. It's the basis of this program of ours. Data for the first two months in the budget are not exactly presented in public. In some means of public information, I read the data that budget revenues reportedly dropped 20% in January. According to what I saw at the finance minister, the decline was real, but it was much smaller, it was about 5% in January. Now it's cumulative, to this day, about 3.5%, as I recall, if memory doesn't cheat on me. What is very important, what MPs and citizens should also know, is that VAT revenues on imports have fallen, until VAT revenues on domestic production have dropped at all. Even incomes from salary taxes have increased, incomes from profit tax have increased, telling us that Serbia will still manage to avoid recession. I really don't think it's going to be easy, but these measures, which we've taken and which we're going to take, will certainly help us to try to achieve this mild economic growth this year, unlike most of the European countries that are recording the recession. When Mr Ostojic asked how it was possible that the government projected a GDP of 3.5% just a few months ago, and now it is likely to revise it, see what Germany, Italy, France did. Everyone audits their estimates, because really, if we want to be honest, no one knows what the final situation of the global financial crisis will be, and no one knew that a few months ago. We don't need to know, we're a small country, we can't affect the crisis. We need to know how to react to the more amortizing the negative effects. I'm convinced that this team will do anything, in favour of the citizens, to just amortize these effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14433	The word is from Mr Tomislav Nikolic, president of the parliamentary group Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14434	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will ask three questions, although the SNS parliamentary group is reluctant to participate in this session. True, we had talks in the opposition, we agreed that once and for all, this would only serve to make Serbian citizens understand that this Assembly is meeting fog among citizens and how this government is sowing fog among citizens and how every occasion you use to further away from finding out what the problems of Serbia look like and what solutions will be, and that you are saying more and more praise on your own account. Here, a minister full of optimism invited us to visit him in Kragujevac in a few months. You know, for the actions you're doing right now, the Kragujevac County Prison isn't moderate because he can only hold you there for six months. You are expected to have multiple prisons for what you have done to Serbia and for what you are currently applying, Mr. Minister. That's why I don't think anyone will be able to visit you in Kragujevac in a few months. This is where we heard you couldn't tell. Now allow us, Serbian citizens, to re-evaluate you who have not been able to evaluate well. Serbian citizens elected us to the Assembly based on what we said. On the basis of what we have spoken and promised, parliamentary groups and the ruling majority have been formed. You told us we'd manufacture 300,000 cars in Kragujevac. You told us that these free shares would be worth every thousand euros. Today doesn't help the story that you were unable to assess the crisis, because Mr. Prime Minister can't say he was incompetent. He came into office with two functions he performed at the same time, one was the director of the Privatisation Agency, and the other was director of the 'Ces Mekona'. His associate, the finance minister, also worked at Ces Mekon with him, his current advisor is the son of the owner of Ces Mekon, who he worked with there together. If you haven't been able to estimate it properly, the least I expect from you is that you don't judge it on our behalf anymore. So, the assembly majority chose you to run Serbia according to the promises you made, according to loans, crossborder loans, investments (grinfield, brownfield, whatever you want), on the promise that we will have prosperity every year, that we will live better and then the economic crisis collapsed. I'm sorry, the people didn't choose you to lead us into a crisis. Because if there was a crisis back then, they wouldn't have chosen you. You people have no confidence that you can lead Serbia in times of crisis. Or at least let the citizens of Serbia check it out. Did you, Mr. Minister, who promised us so much and so little knew what was going to happen, or did you lie to us (for a moment you said that an honest man would say that he did not know the situation of the crisis), that you were able to lead Serbia in a time of crisis? I'm sorry you had to ski for a few hours and answer your questions here. Please excuse me, I'll try to make sure you have that paid dog or whatever it is you call it. So things are very clear. There's no excuse for softly made and false promises, for softly made prosperity, for easy to give speed. One man in ancient times was also not forgiven when he easily promised speed. We will not forgive you today. At a time when more than half of Serbia's citizens fear whether they will have bread in the autumn, you are urging us to buy cars. To buy new cars, because they'll probably make the crisis easier to pass us by. Well, in order to buy that, we should always put together two families and give them one free "punto", because that's how much they get on the basis of bonds that won't be paid, so let them figure out what to do with "punta." If "full" is 8,000 euros, two average families per four -- eight thousand euros, one full on two families, driving to a couple -- the state has fulfilled its promises. Who's -- that's one question -- we're helping out the "punta" business? You said here - 700 euros for zastava workers (beware) for the costs and energy they spend there. You've never worked in production, Mr. Minister. If you had said 700 euros for the workers, for the salaries, I would have understood, and you say - 700 euros and out of them is paid our investment in Fiat and energy and all the costs, and what remains of the worker, it will be a profit per full. We're here to help Fiat. The government of Italy is helping Fiat. Fiat's not a domestic producer. "Punto" arriving by train in Kragujevac is not a domestic product. It has domestic water in the battery and maybe tires, if you start making tires. Not yet. Don't distract us - a new car. Is "punto" still being produced anywhere in the world? Is it made only in Kragujevac to be our Serbian product? Did we possibly sell a license to anyone else to produce that "punto" in the world? Maybe Brazil? What production are we helping by guaranteeing the banks half of Serbia's single-high interest? Who are we helping? You say the citizen will have twice the interest. Is that right? He won't pay on the bridge, and he'll pay on the pot. Half of the foreign bank's interest is now secured from the budget. So far they've been thinking - 11%, 13%. Will that citizen who gave the house a mortgage be able to get it back? So what happens to that house if it's the real estate market? Now by 6.5% interest, at least fully calm, the state of Serbia has guaranteed half of the interest that is already higher than the interest it can charge in the world. You've fried a billion dollars in foreign exchange reserves. You defend the course every day. We look forward to the evening when we hear - tomorrow's dinar strengthened from the euro 0.30%. Did you ask the economy that owed 72 dinars for the euro, and now returns 94, can it hold? Did you help that economy? How many employees are afraid he'll lose his job? And he'll really lose his job if this team continues to lead Serbia. This isn't a team, this is collected from all sides. I would ask that final question, Mr. Prime Minister - are you ready to resign immediately or will you wait for all of us here in Serbia to fall apart and be completely lost, so that one day we may be free? Mr. Prime Minister, this will fall on you. Not on Boris Tadic. He's getting away. You, unlike us, exposed the government's crisis-free programme to him. He was thrilled, I hear, commended that program of yours and said it was remarkable. Now his friends can also know what they're going to import, and what's going to be tax-free and what's going to be released from customs. Why doesn't everyone know that? You're angry with us, Serbian citizens, so you won't tell us what's waiting for us. You put us in the river, so where does that river take us? As the global crisis moves, so will you, citizens of Serbia. Then what are you...?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14435	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. All three questions are clear. Answer the first two questions, Mr Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14436	First of all, Mr. Nikolic, it is true, it is not the parliament that chose me to, as Minister of Economy, evaluate one way or another, but to work. I'm really trying to do my job in the legal frameworks, best I know. What does that mean? This means that for the first time we have achieved, when you are already talking about your native Kragujevac, that a car in the last 20 years is produced without loss and that 722 euros remain for workers. That's modest, but so far there's nothing left. So far, the tax citizens have given 500m euros to subsidise the production of the South. Let me mention, the only contribution to the opposition, because this is what you've been talking about now, and you haven't said anything about what you would do if you were in the government place, and what you and the DSS have officially proposed was to restore the production of "South" in Kragujevac, because it's a domestic product, and "punto" is allegedly not a domestic product. Is it true that parts are brought in from Italy? They're driving. But is that what it's lost on? Don't get lost. Is it true that under the same terms of credit that apply to the "Yugo" and "Punto" sold zero or one "Yugo" in these few days, and 650 "Punta" went away for the same period? You can't tell the citizens what they're going to buy, they choose and decide whether this product is good or bad. You asked if there was still a "punto" being produced. It's manufactured at the Mirafiori factory in Turin, Italy. So it's also produced there. Secondly, you probably weren't chosen by the citizens not to tell the truth. You said to invite you to come to Kragujevac in a few months to show you a new model. All these MPs in the O.R. and the citizens who followed the transmission heard that I said I was inviting you to Kragujevac at the end of next year, when a new model was launched. I invited Batic specifically, and it would be a great pleasure, believe me, Mr. Nikolic, to invite you to your native Kragujevac to take a look at the first model that will be launched together. Of course there's a responsibility for misjudgements, but there is, I hope, a reward for some work, which is won in the elections. I can tell you now, if it's any satisfaction, if that model doesn't launch, I won't go to the next election, because I have my cheek and I know what I promised the citizens of Kragujevci and the citizens of Serbia. I'll tell you for sure. The fact that you, as an opposition, want elections, is your right, but give some concrete suggestions to the citizens what you would do if now, in these conditions... I didn't hear anything from you. The LDP did make a proposal to cut VAT, but you heard the answer that this is not possible at this time. You're just whining and you're not suggesting anything. And what you're saying is that we burned a billion dollars of foreign exchange reserves to defend our course is not true. Every economist knows that you have both inflows and outflows, and that it matters how big the balance is, so how many outflows you've had, and how many inflows you've had. See what the foreign reserves were at the beginning of the year, and what they are now. There are now around 8.3 billion euros and slightly more, and it seems to me to be about 8.5 billion euros early in the year. So, yes, foreign exchange reserves have been reduced, but not by a billion, but by 200 million. Of course, it's easier to speak by heart than to read facts. But citizens eventually decide what they did. I must say that I have never spoken or said that "full" is a substitute for a new model to be launched in Kragujevac, but "full" is the best possible response to the crisis at this point. Is it better that now people in Kragujevac, even if there are a thousand, even though they are on the payroll of three and a half thousand, have jobs that can make some money and cover costs or that none of them have a job like that? Was it better that we didn't find Fiat as a strategic partner and that we still continued or that we subsidized the flag or that we went bankrupt and that everyone was out of a job? So we consciously entered this project with a "punta" idea to start the development of the automotive industry in Serbia according to European standards. We weren't lucky, I couldn't agree with anyone who said that, which hit us with the global financial crisis at the time we made the project with Fiat. You can't accuse a Fiat, which is a multinational company, of deliberately making a deal with us. Of course, they did not fully assess how the market would go and, of course, that only an abnormal man would not revise his actions and adapt it to real circumstances. The Italians want to invest in a Kraguje factory because it's their interest, because it'll cost them more cheaply to produce a small town car than to produce it in Italy. Will they do so within the time limit that they've contracted? He won't. So we're going to review that contract by the end of March, and we're going to see what deadlines it is. A new model was due to appear in January next year. I really don't think it's going to be any big damage if it's due to objective circumstances, which is the global financial crisis, it launchs that model at the end of next year. It's a delay, but it's better than ever. After all, the elections are in 2012 and I and all my colleagues headed by Prime Minister Cvetkovic are always ready to settle our accounts. The citizens will decide for themselves who did it during the crisis, and they will compare it with other countries, and we will see, let them decide for themselves. I don't mind if they vote for you, take responsibility for once, so let's see what you'd really do if you had that responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14437	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The word is Mr. Nikolic, if he wants to ask questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14438	You weren't telling the truth, Mr. Dinkich. The Serbian Progressive Party's economic team was in the cabinet of the Prime Minister on November 18th and presented to him the programme of measures proposed by the SNS and do not let your authority in some economy that you have ruined the state uninterruptedly highlight here in the first place. You may not have liked those measures, you may not have been able to assess whether it was time for those measures, but I tell you, to these measures we will come and you know it very well. Today, banks don't lend loans to companies that are blocked, and how are they going to give to citizens who don't have any more instruments that can prove they're solvents and that they can repay loans? You didn't want to cut taxes and contributions to employees' salaries. You didn't want to tell us when the time would come to fix the course of the dinar towards the euro. You're not, because thieves today are robbing Serbia through a course that you don't know how big it is and how big it's gonna be tomorrow. So now the businessmen, when they do price analysis, charge the euro 115 or 120 dinars and don't know what to do. That's why they keep the goods, because when they made the price, they planned the euro on 75-76 dinars; today the euro is 94 dinars, so who is it worth giving their goods to? Who can, of those who produce, earn in Serbia under such a government? It's "trange-frange." That is why we have proposed to you to control the import of the product, to limit ourselves to the necessary, to drugs, to raw materials, to machines for production. No, you've opened the borders wide. He chews gum. Guys, we're wasting foreign exchanges. What foreign exchange inflow? Four hundred million euros from NIS? Is that your inflow? Where did he go, to the National Bank? Where do the dinars for Vojvodina and other users come from? You're printing money. Don't deceive us here. We asked you to tell us when you're going to fix the price of living supplies, to freeze prices, so people know how much money they need to survive every month. That doesn't occur to you. You're a modern economic government, you have modern economic understanding. You would continue to go into bankruptcy of a company that should go bankrupt in the economy of liberal capitalism. America gave up on it, Germany, France, Italy. Everyone defends what they would never defend six months ago, give their money to government banks and firms to go bankrupt. That's your science. She's placed in the world, still dominant in the world. I haven't heard anything yet that the government said that it's moving on to state socialism, state-run business, and you're conducting every day. And you don't need a parliament to do that, you say you're authorized and you say you're not looking for new money. (President: I thank you. ) Will there be budget rebalance in March?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14439	Mr. Dinkic, please, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14440	If you look at how, due to the reduction in foreign exchange inflows, the central banks of certain countries reacted, you have two different examples. You have countries that have a flexible course regime and have suffered the depression of their currencies, some even up to 60%, and you have countries that have fixed courses, or "cards of boards", which have not done so or have spent large reserves to defend a fixed course. It has been shown, look at the relevant analyses of all economists at this point, that much better past countries with flexible course regimes. Why? Because those who had a fixed course, such as Bosnia, Montenegro, Bulgaria and some other countries, had a major imbalance in the balance of payments, had no way of ironing out the exchanges. As for the printing of money, there has been no printing of money in Serbia since 2000, since I became governor of the National Bank of Serbia. All revenues are obtained from real sources; tax revenues, i.e. borrowing on the domestic and foreign markets. You suggest, Mr. Nikolic, freezing the price. That is an option that has already, to remind you, been tried in Serbia. The result of freezing the price is goods shortages, because if you have frozen prices, it does not guarantee that the goods will be cheap, but will be expensive because they will not be. This is what economic practice has shown several times in Serbia. But I do not dispute your right to propose it in your party's program. I think it's very bad and it never results. We don't have such shortages, as you can see, no matter what we don't have frozen prices. Our current problem is not inflation, our problem is the drop in economic activity, and that's why we went with the lending measures to encourage this activity. When you celebrate Americans, Mr. Nikolic, and you say they give big money to save their banks, so I guess it's a good thing Serbs don't give money to save banks, because they don't have any needs. I guess it's a good thing our banks are strong and solid and there's no need to ask you, citizens, MPs, out of your pocket to save banks. It's a good thing we don't have to save them. God forbid we get into a situation of Iceland or some American banks, because that would be really bad and expensive. You told another lie in your first address. Mr. Nikolic, I didn't come from the bathroom from skiing, I came from the government's session. I've been in Belgrade all week. I was in Nis yesterday. Please don't tell lies, even if they're so small.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14441	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The word is Suzana Grubjesic, representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14442	Thank you, Madam President. Dear members of the government, MPs, my first question concerns the news we hear about the possibilities of seeking and making a new arrangement with the IMF. In this question, I have several questions, but consider it a single question, relating to the IMF. Is making a new arrangement with the IMF a condition of survival and is it a condition for its conclusion to reduce consumption? Because no one, not even the IMF, is going to finance our spending. The question is, what kind of denials are we prepared to agree to make this arrangement? When we make an arrangement, where will that money go, will it be financed by a fiscal deficit or by the establishment of a payment balance and stability on the foreign market? To avoid confusion, both the G17 plus MP group and the G17 plus party are committed to making a new arrangement with the IMF, primarily given the level of responsibilities, which currently stands at around 30% of GDP (some estimate that 25%, but due to exchange rates, received 30% figures). So we think there's room for borrowing, especially because we've paid off both the IMF and the World Bank prematurely, which was usually a huge burden on our budget. The second issue concerns the effects of the implementation of the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU. In that I don't mean the political effects, we talked about the political effects here in the Assembly, I'm interested in the purely economic effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14443	I thank Mrs. Grubeshic. Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14444	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, we already have a program with the IMF and, although we have the opportunity to withdraw funds, we haven't done that yet. Why didn't we do it? I think that the period of nearly two months is still relatively short to look at the effects of the global economic crisis on Serbia's economy, particularly from the aspect of economic growth, from the aspect of external trade and balance of payments, from the aspect of fiscal income and state spending. However, according to preliminary daily data, which are not yet real, we can conclude that economic growth in Serbia is positive, but is not by any chance on the path that will ensure 3.5% growth. Given that growth will be lower, given also, based on value added tax revenues based on import goods, we can estimate that imports into Serbia have fallen by about 30% today. That, of course, can be both good and bad. Good because the balance of payments is adjusted, but bad because that larger imports always mean bigger economic growth. So, are we thinking about a new program with the IMF? Yeah. One reason why we're thinking about it is because the biggest criticisms are directed precisely by exchange rate fluctuations, and we're not about to freeze everything (prices, course etc.).), one way to ensure the stability of the course is to credit the IMF, a credit that is practically aimed at increasing foreign reserves, and they should affect the stability of the exchange rate. Therefore, the IMF loan can only serve for one thing, to fill foreign reserves and to increase foreign exchange rate stability. What kind of arrangement is that gonna be? Definitely all depends on the assessment, both our and the IMF, Serbia's economic perspective in 2009. Assuming the recession in the world is bigger than we planned, including Serbia's economic growth, for example, is much lower, I'm sure the cure for such a crisis is more expansion fiscal policy. I am convinced that after two-and-a-half months, when we get the actual data, we will make an arrangement with the IMF that will, conditionally, be the result of two things -- an increase in deficits, which will, in practice, enable the state to neutralize the decline in economic demand by its action, but also cutting some public expenditures. So, a new arrangement with the IMF? Yeah. Why? Due to a more stable exchange rate, the adjustment of Serbia, or public finances in two directions, is one likely growth in the fiscal deficit, the second falling of some unnecessary public expenditures. I would also like to inform you that Serbia currently has one of the lowest fiscal deficits in the region or beyond. Almost no country in Europe has a deficit greater than 3.5%, 4% or 5%. Should Serbia be the only one to have a 1-1.5% deficit? As soon as other countries react with a larger deficit, the idea is that the deficit should be a driver for economic growth. As regards the answer to the second question, I think it is almost impossible to determine what the effect of the Transitional Agreement on the volume of customs and VAT revenues is, above all, because there has indeed been a combination of two effects. So it's certain, definitely, that the dominant effect is a major drop in imports. Due to a major drop in imports, customs and VAT have fallen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14445	Thank you. Mr. Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14446	I have two questions for the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic. I'll use my six minutes to explain them. I'm starting with this. The DSS launched an initiative in this House, sending a letter to all MPs, and therefore we wanted the government to be informed about it, above all through parliamentary groups belonging to the ruling coalition, that it is necessary to hold a assembly debate on the subject -- the challenges of the global economic crisis, how it reflects on domestic space and what measures we would oppose these tendencies. The idea was to discuss it in parliament, as normal states, as we could see through TV receivers in the previous days, debate in their parliaments. If you look at the President of the United States' speech the other day, the good part of that speech was dedicated to the effects of the crisis and it was done before Congress. Serious countries are discussing this in a serious way. The DSS has asked to discuss this in parliament. And she asked not only for a debate, we also asked for a crisis tracking team to be formed and to do so by parliament, not just the government. We also proposed a series of measures and laws designed to participate as a demonstration exercise, as a package of measures to stop the effects of the financial crisis. It was all ignored. It has been said of us that we are demagogues and populists when we propose it, to find out later that the Government of the Republic of Serbia plans similar measures, we even got laws. Today, instead of this debate, we have something that has been done by the ruling coalition. That, Mr. Cvetkovic, is our conversation, i.e. Asking MPs questions and answering these questions on the subject. The theme is the one we wanted, but this isn't a debate. Three minutes to ask one question, five minutes to answer, 180 minutes total for all answers to questions, so when the valve falls, it falls. Whether or not all the people on this list, who wanted to ask a question, will come to order or not, that's a special question. The way this is happening is that the ruling coalition is asking questions, 50% of the time is wasted by the opposition, which is the formal right of every MP, but that's not the order. That's not what the SPS was doing in 1994. What's done is called obstruction of the subject. The issues of ministers and prime ministers are voluntarily served to lose half of those 180 minutes that should be devoted to answers. In this way, a serious debate on this subject is avoided. If you do that, then the question is, what are your motives? In addition to your statements in the paper, apart from a statement by the Government of the Republic of Serbia about the individual measures you have taken occasionally, we do not have any insight into the package of measures you intend to take. A served question from the head of Mrs. Hope Kolundzie's parliamentary club at the beginning of this debate, where you spoke 15 minutes out of booze, on which I now have the right to speak six questions, from two issues, from booze, which you agreed at a closed meeting of the heads of Parliament clubs, without our participation, is the manner in which we are working here in the Assembly. You get a served question. In 15 minutes, you're declaring what you thought was necessary, a paper that's unwritten. I guess the citizens of Serbia deserve to get one written document, which would cost what your intentions are specifically. I guess this assembly, as a representative of the citizens, deserved to see it. I guess. It's supposed to be, but obviously not. Obviously, this surrogate of normal sessions was designed to allegedly discuss the subject, and nothing really was discussed, so that everyone was happy and satisfied. We, of course, couldn't help but come to this session, we shouldn't have ignored it despite the trap you've made for us, because if we hadn't come to this session, you wouldn't have had ten questions asked by the ruling coalition, but maybe one or two, then someone, Hope Kolundji or anyone, and said, "Here, the opposition doesn't care about the global economic crisis, it's not about the social situation of citizens who, because of you and your incompetence, will starve." It is not my wish, but it will happen because you are unable to manage the economic crisis and the consequences of the economic crisis, you have shown so far. My two questions for you are next. First question, Mr. Cvetkovic, you are not listening to me, so you will not be able to answer it, and you can answer it very briefly, yes or no – do you intend to discuss this issue in a serious assembly debate? Yes or no? And do you intend to deliver any documents? The second question is also for you, Mr Cvetkovic – what happened to the information on income and expenditure that was not available on the Ministry of Finance website from February 1st to 20th? Your data came off suddenly, so that on February 20th, they'd be hanged again. I want an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14447	Thank you. Mr. Aligrudic, I just want you to... Just one piece of information. Milos Aligrudić, from the scene: If you do so, I will go out. If I don't have the right to a replica, you don't have the right... It's not a replica, it's just an explanation for everyone. Milos Aligrudic, from the post: Out of the question. Gentlemen, I would just like to remind you that 180 minutes of government answers, not questions, are taking place. (Milos Aligrudic, from the place: I said so. Look what you said. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14448	Regarding the first question, do we intend to seriously consider these questions here, the answer is yes, of course. In addition, I've just gone to the short answers, to give everyone the opportunity to come in and say it. On the other hand, I think that the essence of this debate is still in the answers, not in a detailed statement of questions, so if you want to get some time here, I suggest that you don't use a lot of time for questions, but rather, to insist that someone who suits you take a lot of time for answers, so that the answers are as comprehensive as possible. As far as the second question is concerned, I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance. All right, I'll answer that question, and then she will. [[Louds from the bench: No, it's you.]] You asked what happened to the website. There was a piece of paper on the site that was wrong in one part, where the costs were collected... Let me, if you'd like to hear it. So that paper that defined spending included both the spending of those who were from the budget and the expenditure on their own income. To make it clear to the citizens, let's say, the Faculty of Economics, I'm an economist. The Faculty of Economics spends funds from budgets transferred to it, but besides these funds, it spends and funds created itself by providing various services to the economy. So on that paper were the summation of both assets, and then it was wrong, by someone compared to the budget itself, and there it turns out, that the funds were transferred from the budget, which was not true. Now you have a paper that just shows what I'm talking about. If he wants the finance minister to add something to this subject, let him say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14449	We're a little slow, maybe, but I'll try to explain everything. It's a little strange to me that whatever it is that's done, it's always understood, it seems to me, in the wrong way, and there's always something really bad behind some mistake. I'd say the problem is really purely methodological and I'll try to explain it. If you remember, when we adopted budget rebalances for 2008, I kind of changed the calculation methodology. Why did I change? Because I felt that the way the budget deficit was defined in the Budgetary System Law was not a good indicator of fiscal policy. The methodology's changing, and I'll say the same, if you'll let me. How did I do that? The previous methodology overestimated revenue, underestimated expenditure and made our fiscal policy less expansion than it did. So my decision to change and show the result worse, I guess, is at least some proof that I didn't want to make things any different and better than they did. If you're asking me if that methodology was the last word of science and technique, I must say it wasn't. What was the problem, actually? The same time we adopted budget rebalances, negotiations with the IMF were under way. The methodology on which we base the calculation was the 1986 methodology. It is changing and now there is a methodology from 2001. I made one shift and essentially modified the 1986 methodology, which is still not a real indicator of fiscal policy. Of course, the IMF didn't accept this "better" definition of budget deficits either, and we talked to them about completely different figures. When we adopt the budget, we adopt incomes and expenditures, considering only original incomes, tax revenues. In addition to these, as the prime minister said, there are own revenues from the authorities, different court fees, etc. But it's not the only thing. It's just one, maybe least important. There's also another thing, and that's the treatment of JP Roads. In most countries, it is a direct budget user, and it was with us, I don't know exactly what year, but the IMF also required a standard methodology to require that the Public Enterprise "The Roads" have direct budget user treatment. The third thing is loans from international financial institutions, which go directly to projects, not budgets, to individual ministries. It also accounts for the IMF. So, the budget we adopted didn't go too far. We haven't even made any revenue, 96% is the percentage of the execution, but we haven't even made any expenses. The real picture of whether the deficit is greater than what we have projected - is, but not much, and it is consistent with what we have agreed with the IMF. To make sure that exactly what I'm saying is also the fact that you see what the IMF's methodology for 2009 is and what the 2009 budget is. If you compare those two digits, you'll see that the deficit is actually bigger, according to the most modern technology, according to the 2001 JFS, by about eight billion. I'm ready to defend every single number. I've personally checked every single IMF loan, and I'm prepared to answer any questions about that accident.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14450	Thank you. Mr. Aligrudic has a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14451	First, I would like to thank Mr Cvetkovic for his good will to answer my first question, and thank you for answering the second question, even though you did it by certainly overcoming the time that the Rules of Procedure was intended for an answer, which obviously the President of the National Assembly does not respect and is not interested at all, but he likes to throw it to the MPs, but with you, of course, it doesn't matter. My question is like this. I understand that there is probably a difference in methodology (you call it methodology) and that this difference in methodology can cause a possible need to show something different, but I don't think that was what caused the public attention when the website of the Ministry of Finance was withdrawn, so it magically appeared after 20 days. Of course, the methodology has changed, but that doesn't answer the key question, which is -- by what methodology, or by what method you're going to use, you can now answer whether this country needs 500m euros in borrowing at this point, two billion euros, from which side we're going to pick it all up, and by what methodology can you know how we're going to cover the budget deficit in the next six months, let alone a year? After all, when is the rebalancing expected?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14452	For six minutes of asking questions, the government has the right to answer for ten minutes. Mr. Cvetkovic has his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14453	In response to the question of when a rebalancing is expected, I must say that we do not have a clear dynamic if the rebalancing could be, we already intend to, together with IMF experts, who are expected to come in early March, consider the current situation and determine further steps. Only after that will we make the right decisions. So, so far the rebalancing has not been put in place as something to talk about with the dates that have been set.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14454	Thank you. National MP Dragan Vujadinovic wants to ask the government a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14455	Your Honor, I'll be on my way. I have three questions and one request-proposal. The first question is from public spending, public enterprises. Why do not the exact plans and rules of distribution of basic earnings and variable additions to management of boards of directors and supervisory boards, as well as preventive control of public spending at all levels, be established? The addition to this question is – why is a portfolio within the Ministry of Finance, i.e. one State Secretary not directly in charge of preventive control of the execution of the right-hand side of the budget, as well as public enterprises? Why does the state continue the practice of the time government of Prof. Kostunicas continue to subsidise and artificially maintain so-called. big systems, instead of finding a serious strategic partner in every way possible? The last example is RTB Bora, and we have other examples. It is impossible to delay the recovery and revitalization of these systems. About eight and a half billion have been introduced into these systems through the release of debt and direct subsidies. I really think that in addition to all the problems this government has with further facing the global crisis, the problem of large systems and public enterprises must be put in priority. The first question was about public enterprises and public spending, a summary issue. The second question is from the banking sphere and the NBS. As part of the integrated austerity programme, why does the NBS reference rate not fall, as a reper for banks on dinar loans, to a maximum of 12%, projected inflation 8%, plus 50% on project inflation? Why did the business banks no longer participate in the economic crisis, but rather the burden is over-loaded to the Development Fund, which will subsidise its assets at 3%, and the budget? He's got the instruments, isn't he? The National Bank has instruments. Business banks have made 400 million profits in the last two years. They had to divide the natural sector by instruments or agreements to a greater extent in 2009 and 2010. The third question is from Minister Mrkonjic's sphere, unfortunately it is not there, or Minister Kalanovic. Can it be expected that in the future we will not start everything, and little is done, not to make party roads where there are many voters (I will not speak any names), but to set strategic priorities and complete one project at a time? The request would be next. The conditions for the payment of subsidies for 2009, whether per hectare of a processed area, whether for first-born cows or for other livestock funds, for registered peasants, are that they paid their contributions for 2008. A request is a large number of these people to reverse the process. They can't raise money to pay off contributions so they can get subsidies, but to turn around, that the state directly pays taxes and contributions to pension and health insurance directly to these registered peasants instead of subsidies. So, not to wait for the peasant to pay first to get it, but to have the state pay for it and join it in 2008 instead of waiting for subsidies because it won't wait for them. Thank you very much. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14456	Thank you, Mr. Vujadinovic. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14457	The issue of expenditure in public enterprises is generally one of the areas with the highest interest of the government, especially in the phase of budgeting and general observation of the state sector in the broadest sense, in which it belongs. In this context, if we go back to the way basic principles were laid, those three of which I was talking about, where one of these principles was to actually introduce restrictions on the state sector, and incentives in the economy sector, we of course had to deal with issues of public enterprises. We have come to the conclusion that there are actually a few things that need to be solved in public enterprises and their costs, some of which are relatively simple and straight-line, and some are a little more complicated. The first thing we have assessed by simple and legal terms is to curb the high fees paid to board members and other representatives of the state in the management bodies (administrative boards, congregations, etc.).), where the government was maybe two months ago, I don't remember exactly, has passed the appropriate regulation, and that level of compensation has been reduced to a level corresponding to the average salary, which is about thirty-seven thousand, which represented a reduction of literally five, six, even more times. So it's not about percentages, it's about pretty big cuts and restrictions. The other problem that has arisen is the problem of costs and with this and the particular problem that was at stake with the MP, which is the salaries received by the directors, i.e. those set up to run those public enterprises. At first glance, this question could have been solved with a multiplicity by setting some low level there, and then we would have one satisfaction, but on the other hand, there would be a danger of collapse of the entire system. Because, as far as we're concerned, public enterprises still have huge capital behind them, and you practically have to take care of who you trust to handle it. Of course, you have many public companies that operate in competitive conditions, and then you have to take care of how you solve this problem. At the same time, papers on some enormous salaries in the institutions of this type appeared, and we formed a working group that considered the issue of how it should be resolved. This task force has actually faced these problems that I have been telling you about, but in the end, it has come to some conclusions that have served us to define the direction that these problems should be solved. Those conclusions were, like, next. The first conclusion was that these high fees that we had the opportunity to read about in the papers were not actually the salaries of those directors, but were their receipts. Therefore, the difference between salary and income is that the salary is a fixed amount, and the income makes the salary increased by various bonuses, fees, etc. They really used that second part in the good part to increase the salary three to four times, so some, for example, with a salary of a hundred and a few thousand had a receipt of three hundred and a few thousand etc. This finding that we've come up with has served us to actually focus on limiting these extra benefits that go beyond pay, and that, when it comes to pay levels, we limit it not through a fixed amount, but through an additional and new analysis. On the basis of what I told you, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a recommendation today, in the light of the conclusions on the restriction of income for public enterprises, for leadership and other persons elected and placed there. You'll get a chance to look at that conclusion, but to paraphrasise it, it says roughly: all the supplements that go on the salary over the course of the year are limited to the level of four months' wages, where they cannot be paid if they are not given an appropriate explanation to be provided to the government. So there will be no autonomy now in that they can raise and give benefits as much as they want, but it will be strictly controlled. The pay itself when it is established, and the proposal is to carry out, in accordance with the current crisis situation, a new analysis and to bring new rules on salaries, there is an obligation to publish and make available to the public, which means that we will no longer have problems of the type "this is an official secret, I can't tell you". On the contrary, it will all be uploaded to the site or published in a way that the public can do so. Finally, in that conclusion, they are also strictly defined and opportunities related to additional expenditure and costs, which are primarily representations, use of official cars, etc. So my answer to this parliamentary question in that section is that that conclusion has been reached. Under the circumstances, the government adopted it today, although it has been discussed on the subject for several months now, and you will have the opportunity to see exactly how it is. As for the issues of control of the whole process, and even a little wider, therefore, the control of the costs of public enterprises, there is indeed one sector in the Ministry of Finance, which is even called the Public Business Sector, and that is the sector through which the financial relationship with public enterprises breaks. All public enterprises are required to deliver their financial plans, which are then adopted by the government and then these financial plans and talks go through the sector, so that the sector has information that is relevant and it monitors costs. The problem that has arisen so far and why was the issue of these high incomes is that the sector followed not the individual level of salary, but the mass of wages and made sure not to allow public companies to increase the wage mass compared to some percentage that was agreed, but the sector did not enter the internal distribution as much as it receives. Now, with this change, this sector will practically get the rules on wages and profits, and will have the possibility of direct insight into individual figures, and these additions are limited in the way I said. I'd just like to say one more thing about the National Bank, so I'd like to give my colleagues my word that they're saying something else because we still have time. As you know, the Assembly has produced, among other things, us as Government, so we are the product of the Assembly and we refer to it. In the same way, the Assembly produced the leadership of the National Bank, so that the National Bank is completely independent of the Government, but is not independent of the Assembly, which chose it. That's why, on the NBS policy issue, the way she's supposed to work, I urge you to call, just as you have called us on parliamentary matters, the governor of the NBS and the vice governor. They'd come here, and they'd probably be happy to answer those questions. Let me not enter their sphere. Now I'd like to ask Mr. Mrkonjic to give an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14458	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Vukadinovic had a question for you, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14459	I'm very comfortable being back in this environment. So, Mr. Vujadinović knows well, he and I have often discussed it, and the truth is that this government is one of the few, and I remember a lot because I am among the older people here, who brought priorities in their four-year work, at least in the area of infrastructure. The National Council was formed, there was little criticism of the council, led by the President of the Republic himself. In that council sits both the Prime Minister and the seven ministers and we propose priorities to the government, the government makes decisions and goes into realisation. Based on this, three priority projects have been identified so far. It's a highway through our country to Corridor 10 (all of you know it well, from Subotica, via Novi Sad, Belgrade, Nis, to Dimitrovgrad) and the railway line on that same corridor. These are priorities in Serbia's infrastructure. In addition, the third project is a Belgrade subway, also treated as a Serbian project. This has so far been identified by the National Council as proposals, and the government has made decisions on resolving certain issues. So far, as you know, a few things have been done. First, complete documentation has been prepared and complete expropriation is being carried out in part of Corridor 10, connected to the highway. The work on three objects started, and this year we're planning, I brought one card here, and I drew those 12 points on it. Here, let's see it. On the back are deadlines, dynamics and value of these jobs. Here's my signature, and you can control me, Dragan, on behalf of the government, how we do it and if it's over. Since Mr Nikolic has asked this question well, this is how it will be from now on and every MP... I didn't know the technology of work because I wasn't a lot of MPs, I know when I chaired this assembly, I have a special pate to it. I can't confirm it here today on behalf of the government, but I left it to all the MP clubs, and this one with my signature (I'm sorry, on behalf of the government is my signature, I have no predisposition to be a candidate for president ever again) I'll leave it to Mrs. President, that she has it. So you can control us. These jobs, which are drawn here and you're all going to get, are to be completed by half next year, except for the Iron Bridge, which is due to be completed in 2011. Of the 380m euros, how much these jobs will cost, 120m is from domestic funds. It's already five billion, or 50 million in the budget. Other funds are from certain cities: Novi Sad, Belgrade, etc. The New Now has only, and it has for you an interesting data, allocated a hundred million to the realization of these our projects in the work around the New Sad. Not through Vojvodina, but in the work around the New Sad. Eight loops, the Jell-O Bridge, the station in Novi Sad will be run by the New Sad funds. The rest is credit money. Our idea was to finish in the first half of the year what we could do with our domestic resources, but so much so that we could leave room for the loans to continue to be fully realised next year. So it's planned this year to do this 400 million, and next year we have to do a lot more, and a billion. The essence of what I'm telling you here now, and not to be fairy tales, which surprised me as well (so often I give such statements, they may be a little untraceable, but they're not entirely fake), world investors, especially banks (World Bank, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank) announced a billion and a half euros for projects related to Corridor 10. So it's a guarantee of the quality of this project and it's up to us alone, depending on the speed that we're going to realize, whether or not we're going to withdraw that money. The first loans are already there. What we're going to do on the railroad through our country is three international loans that have been ratified. MPs, and I consider you to be the top of the pyramid of the government that runs these projects, I ask only for the understanding and timely signing of these contracts. It's very important that international loans don't wait. Of course, if you agree (and I'm always available to you to ask me, every day, if there's something unclear) to verify these loans, not to wait, as we've been on some occasions so far, not because you haven't done, away from it, but because there have been some things that aren't business related, but they've taken us away from these projects. I thank you in advance, and every day I'm ready to go around the field with each of you. During March, these 12 sites will live and work. A little while ago, I think Mr. Nikolic, he won't be mad, he's my colleague... We expect at least 40,000 workers for these 400m euros, according to Mr Tadic, to have safe jobs. That's why I think there's no crisis in this segment that knocks on the door. We're gonna break this crisis, believe me, with these projects. One more detail. Mr Ostojić is (I apologize, President, that question was meant for you, but I feel it as my own. I was talking about construction. When it comes to government measures, we've been thinking about giving money for housing loans and giving it to the government. Serbia needs 150,000 apartments today, we just have to lower the cost of the apartment to 500-600-700 euros, the banks will lend credit. It's a multiplier project, I'm glad that Mr. Ostojić knows it, just 28 industries is in one square metre of apartment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14460	I thank you, Mr. Minister, for your concrete and optimistic answers. National MP Radoslav Mojsilovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14461	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, this work is just great. An MP from the ruling coalition comes out, sets up advances with ministers or prime ministers agreed on issues, and then the prime minister or ministers give us lectures here, like we're at school. It's just that they forget one fact that we're not children here and that Serbian citizens are no longer impossible to deceive. I'm sorry that Mr. Dinkic left because I was just about to ask him questions. We were all here to witness that Mr. Dinkic invited Mr. Batic to visit Kragujevac there for some reasonable time and to see for himself the cost of his investments. I just don't believe those stories, and I have a big reason for that. Why doesn't Mr. Dinkic invite Mr. Batic or Mr. Nikolic, as he just called them for the assembly address, to visit Vranje? No, he goes around the crow like rain around Kragujevci. For what reason? We had a big investment in Vranj, the opening of 3,000 new jobs, the arrival of Zamber, the state through SIEPA invests six million euros, except the workers didn't start working... And what happened, what's the epilogue of the whole story? Now the citizens are tearing up that building that was supposed to be a building, the factory is breaking up, Janis Savas, owner of Zamber, owner of Allen, escaped from the country, the economy ministry can't get him. It's a disaster. The workers went crazy, even those 900 workers who worked at the Zamber, in the Jumka rooms, were out of a job. Vranje has lost 2,000 jobs in the last month and a half. Secondly, I have to ask Mr. Dinkic, on behalf of the Yumk worker, what's going on with them. They're given false promises all the time: it's going to help, you're going to do dedicated production for the military, for health care, for the police. But there's nothing out of those false promises. Because of what's going on in Vranj, I don't believe there's going to be anything out of free action, I don't think the citizens are going to get that money at all, I don't believe in the story of the Fiat, because what happened to Jumka and Zamber in Vranja is going to happen. In the end, I can say that Mr Tomislav Nikolic was a little bit wrong earlier, I think he thinks the same as me, said Mr Dinkic burned a billion dollars. No, Mr Dinkic, if he is allowed to do this and continue like this, will fry the entire Serbian economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14462	I didn't get the questions. Mrs. Vesna Pesic has the opportunity to ask. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14463	Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask a question to the Prime Minister - why is not one of the most expensive things that creates corruption in our society, which is a party state? I'll get some information on how the administration grew enormously. If it is said that in 2000, there were 8,000 people in the administration, that 12,000 were transferred from federal authorities, but 8,000 were admitted on the party line. Each party brings new people, the old ones don't fire and so the administration grew not only when it comes to the state, but also about the locale. The other day we were able to read the news that there were as many as 80 lawyers in one municipality and that the administration had grown to 12,000. Believe me, this people can't pay such an expensive state. I've got those numbers for you. The other day, it seems to me, you had an idea that it would "cut off." Now, all of a sudden, you said no one was going to lose their job, and it even seemed to me that at the moment you showed so much rationality that you said that what the LDP... A moment ago, when you quoted us, you failed to say that we, both during budget rebalancing and later, when the measures were a topic, said that the number of ministries had to be cut off. You know what, it's a great shame that whenever a government is made, they don't take the functions that society needs, but that we have as many ministries and resolutions as it takes for the party state, as much as it takes for coalition partners. Dinkic needs five ministries, this takes six, which takes ten, and so we arrived at 25 ministries. And then we have four vice presidents, one of whom is the vice president. Can you make any restrictions and remove some ministries? Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure, spoke earlier, but the money stands with Mrs. Kalanovic. How does one work there and the other keep his money here? We had the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and now it's for telecommunications. The Minister of Sports and Youth says, "Citizens, I look forward to telling you that we have been separated for the tennis courts of 40 million." Well, that's unseen. What did she make us happy in this crisis, that we were paying for some tennis courts? So it's madness from wastefulness. It is madness that, instead of the ministries being permanent institutions, we each vote new institutions so that you can hire a party chamber. It's the most expensive thing in this country, it's a source of corruption, and it's a madness that no one in this country can live on anymore. But I can see that this crisis doesn't touch it, the party resolutions will stay, and you're not planning on doing anything about it. We've suggested that before, but you haven't mentioned it. I'm asking this as a fundamental question, and I'm asking two more questions since you've had unprecedented scandals lately as to the fact that your ministers and government officials who are government officials have several functions where several salaries are received. We had a big scandal with the justice minister who's supposed to protect the law, and she says she didn't break the law. How come she didn't break the law when she didn't have the right to have another function? Well, the judge has another function. It was all a violation of the law. Have you done an analysis of how many civil servants who are officials and who have another function in which they receive salaries, which, under the Government Act, are not entitled, or are we going to allow your government officials to continue to receive several salaries? She was also Mrs Stojcevic, the secretary of the government. Well, they all receive at other places of pay. I hear Mr. Skundric, Minister of Energy, is also on some board of directors and is receiving half a million there. Well, wait, are you going to do that analysis of who's in conflict of interest and make order, so that officials, government officials, can't receive a few personal incomes? In the end, my third question concerns social measures. We can't stand the social measures funded by rich people anymore. Even economist Stole Stamenkovic said that. It's okay to give kids free textbooks in a critical year, but -- do you give your kids kids? When are you going to introduce targeted social measures, so you don't fund all the squads? You saw a social map was introduced in Croatia. If we help someone, let us really help that part of the population that cannot withstand this crisis and one who has low personal income, not that every social measure applies to rich people who work on boards and their children get free textbooks. Well, that's comical. Please say – have you taken measures to make social policy a modern social policy, to finance those who do not have, and not those who have?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14464	Thank you, Mrs. Pesic. Minister Markovic has his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14465	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak about rationalization when it comes to civil servants and deputies employed in local self-government units. At this point, according to the Staff Management Service, about 28,000 people work in the state administration. That number is, that's a fact, bigger than eight years ago, but the state is also different. We must bear in mind that in the meantime they have become republican: the Federal Defence Ministry, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, the Federal Hydrometeorological Institute, the Federal Bureau of Measures and Valuities, the Federal Customs Administration and a series of other federal authorities that have become republican. But that can't be an excuse and an explanation. There is truth in what Mrs Pesic said, that there has been non-selective employment in the previous period and that it has been going on for years. There is no doubt that 28,000 certainly is not the number of people we need in the state administration, as there is no doubt that the number of authorities and special organisations is greater than the number we would need. But how can it be solved? It's possible if two factors are met. One is a certain political stability over a long period of time and a political consensus. If you want to pass the ministry law, you must provide the necessary majority in the National Assembly. There's no dilemma here, and it needs to be extremely open. On the other hand, appropriate analyses of all organs, so-called functional analysis, both horizontal and vertical, and to get as many civil servants as really necessary in a given body of administration. Of course, some third approach is possible, which would be demagogue or perhaps popular, which is -- let's fire 10%. But in one organ, the 10% could question the functioning of that organ, and in another organ, you might fire 30%. In order to get an answer to the question of where it is needed, it is necessary to carry out these analyses. In the government, we talked about it more than once. At this point we have a very restrictive employment policy, and very soon we will start with the appropriate analyses. These analyses were conducted in parallel practice with the support of the World Bank. Therefore, these analyses were not carried out on their own and on their own. Unfortunately, we do not have the opportunity to be in debt, nor do we intend to be in debt in that direction, so that we will conduct appropriate analyses and affect the reduction of the number of civil servants. What we also need to know is that the Law on civil servants and tenants does not make it easy to rationalise the state administration, because it has certain protective mechanisms for people who are employed. It should also be kept in mind that it would be very impractical, at the very least inhumane, "decreative" now leave a certain number of people out of work, because I really don't know what these people would do on the street, except they'd be social cases. Maybe the most important thing, when there's so much public talk about the state administration, that it's the state administration, there's the finance minister who's going to fix me, about 1% of the total public spending. I think that, Mrs. Pesic, is an important piece of information for you when we talk about it. So I repeat, these 28,000 people in the state administration spend 1% of the total public spending in this country. The reduction of the state administration by 10% brings savings of 0.1% of total public spending, so I'd like to see things that way. Of course, this does not mean that in some quieter times, some politically stable times should not go towards having a government that has 15 ministries, but for a government of 15 ministries it also needs a different political configuration in parliament. So I'm sure we'd better get to it. It is at this point for us far away, as it is very difficult and over a period of six months to carry out an appropriate analysis, because, again, for these analyses it is necessary to hire special professional consultants, it all costs a lot of money and at this point it is simply not feasible, the money for it is not available. But we managed to do something else. There's one segment where we didn't have to access that kind of analysis because we have similar experiences. It's a system of local self-government, where 22,000 people work and more. A system without any control regarding employment. The number has also been increasing all the time and we can say quite responsibly that there are at least eight thousand people in excess. There, the government had the strength to find 1,100,000 dinar funds and funds, in synergy with local self-government budgets, led the government to adopt a local-level rationalisation programme last Thursday. We expect that this program in the next few months, two thousand people voluntarily (repeat - exclusively voluntarily - it is very important, because these are human fates, families, and very often that person who works supports two or three) leave the system of local self-government. This is a way of permanent resolution, because these municipalities that enter into that contract with the government are losing the ability to ever increase the number of employees again without special written consent from the government. In this way, in 2010, only those two thousand people will remain 12m euros more in the system of local self-government for schools, homes of health, roads or any other or third need of local self-government. I'm sure it's the first time since the introduction of a local self-government system in 1990 that the state does something like this. For the first time in general, in a systematic manner, it addresses the issue of employees in the state administration system and local self-government. We're starting with local self-government, but we're working intensively to get to the appropriate systems and to the state administration. I repeat, at this point, we have no money that in a humane way, a decent way and, above all, a way that will not endanger the functioning of the state administration itself, let's solve this issue. I've heard different points of view about resolving the state administration's issues. There are some who say -- let's fire 30% here, someone recently said -- let's switch ministerial assistants... You know what, without the state administration, the state can't provide services to its citizens, which it's mandatory to do. If we did something so casual, irresponsible, just to get two headlines in the paper and to be commended, I think we'd do a lot more damage than the benefit of this country. It was such an attempt during the first government of Dr Vojislav Kostunica. Ten percent left the state administration and within six months, not those 10% returned, 20% returned, but it sounded good on TV. We don't want to do this, we don't want to deceive publicity. At this point in the state administration system there are 28,000 people, there are no clear and precise analyses which of them would have to leave the state administration, but that's why we managed to run analysis for local self-government, where we started with the rationalization process. As for questions about the party state, etc., these are already political assessments. We know well what kind of society we live in, and there's no need to talk here right now, something that we know isn't true, as there's no need to use as an argument something that we've all created together, each in our own way and each at a certain time when he was in power in the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14466	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14467	It was a matter of targeted social measures, free textbooks, etc. What I'm saying is that I totally agree with the approach that social measures should be targeted, that they don't apply to everything. It seems to me that this approach has also been accepted at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and that the measures have been well-conceived. Although free textbooks are listed here as an example of untagged measures, I think it's actually one other thing. Why aren't they targeted? In fact, it is that the idea of free textbooks was derived from the constitutional obligation to provide free schooling and then it was interpreted as free textbooks and therefore there could be no discrimination. However, in real life, given that textbooks are given on some kind of loan, just what categories they think they don't need, they'll either not use them, or they'll use them at the end of the year to buy others. So, in short, I think the approach that's exposed is in place and I think we're sticking to it. If that's not the case somewhere, we'll see and we'll make it right. As to the question of whether an analysis is made of how many people work in the state service and receive more salaries, I must say that really, at least in the framework of my environment, we make sure that there is no conflict of interest and that none of the appointed persons are a member of the board of directors. What you mentioned about Mr. Škundric, it is not about the board of directors, but about the assembly, and there is a legal interpretation that it is not a conflict of interest. If it were the board of directors, it would be, and when it's the assembly, it's not. I can't tell if he's right or wrong, but that's mostly the answer. To your question whether there is an analysis in the government of how many such people there are, my answer is - no, there is no such analysis, but all officials are obliged to deliver their position and situation after entering office. There is then appropriate bilateral communication and, in accordance with the laws, solutions are made to remove conflicts of interest, which are not unrealistic to appear at the beginning of the term of office of a selected person. For example, when I was elected Minister of Finance, at the same time I had my own private company and, of course, I reported it and it took me 15-20 days to formally shut it down (because it's a procedure, you have to solve tax treatment with a certain day). I think that's how it works and, of course, I'm behind it, I support fighting these conflicts, and if there are individual cases, it shouldn't be considered to be part of a system or at least not part of something that represents a general commitment. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14468	Mrs. Pesic has the right to be questioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14469	I'd just tell Mr. Markovic that it was really illogical. These 28,000 don't produce expenses, and those there at the local level, you've already taken it under control, and that's where you'll save some millions. I'll quote you because the other day you gave an interview with "Politice." You don't even know what kind of ministry the clerks have. Do a little, do a lot, you have no idea. And do you know what you said in that interview? You said it like this - since our ministries are feuds... You said it like this, so we all know it, our government is a confederate of various parties, and everyone does what they want for themselves. Mrs. Kalanovic controls Dinkic. Minister Cvetkovic doesn't control her at all, but her party chief. So now I'm going to explain to you what you said. So this is what you said -- how do we determine this situation, who's going to go to the ministry and say, hey, colleagues, how many employees do you have here? Well, of course you can't. No one can get into any ministry and ask how many employees they have and what they're doing. How are you going to ask anyone? What are you going to ask Dinkic? You'll never ask him anything. So there's no teamwork here, and neither can you determine that condition, because you're very nice and plastic, as I've just said, so you yourself answered that question. The Prime Minister did not respond to the fact that it is really unnecessary to have so many ministries, that it is unnecessary to have so many Deputy Prime Ministers, that it seems disgusting, wasteful and in no way restrictive when it comes to the crisis, and that I am not saying that... Do you remember, please, how we got to the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights? You wanted the Ministry to "put" the Hungarians, so the Hungarians said no, we don't want the Ministry, we want the Ministry of Agriculture. Well, then you didn't know what to do with that ministry, so you said, "Well, come on, let the ministry pass." And now that we have an Ombudsman for human rights, what do we need a ministry for? You're welcome to remove it. It's the cars, the secretary of state. Not to mention at least five or six other ministries that are completely unnecessary and where you can save money in this crisis.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14470	Thank you. Mr. Markovic will give the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14471	As a matter of fact, I owe Mrs. Pesic a debt. There's something else I wanted to say, which I think is very important. Not only did we start this process in the local self-government system, I'm glad we started something. I repeat, this will be the first time in 18 years that he has finally begun to establish that employment system in local self-government. Believe me, there's so much enormous employment in local self-government without any basis. For the state administration we have very clearly that it has ceased to exist in one state community, created by another state, etc., so it is clear why this number has increased so much. In local self-government, the number increased with every change of government because party personnel were brought in. This is the first time a government has managed to solve this problem. We're starting this program practically next week. I expect these 2,000 people will actually volunteer very soon. It's not true that these 28,000 people don't spend. It is normal for them to spend too, and they receive wages. It's true, I don't know what kind of pay is, but they're getting paid. I'd like to remind you that the salary with the mid-level expertise in the state administration is about 15,600 dinars. The salaries of the officers we love so easily to burn with wood and stones are of 15,600 dinars and more. With VSS, they start with 30,000 dinars... It's highly uncompetitive, but it's now another topic of why our government is in the state of it. For the state administration, it's very difficult, Mrs. Pesic, to run that analysis I was talking about so you could do it in a non-demagogical way. It's a demagogue order. Let's all go 10%. Believe me, that's not the answer to the problem. You can drive 10% off the street, make them social cases, get 2,000 people who are now on the street and have received about 20,000 dinars before that. That's no problem. To us ministers, that won't be a problem. But I'm telling you, that's bad. It's bad because you're doing it extremely unselective, because you don't have any system to do it on and because you're going to jeopardize the functioning of some organs. Here, at the Ministry of State Administration, we took over the responsibilities regarding the electoral system and the working relationship in the state authorities. We have a sector in place, and in the sector, we have one man. Now someone else has to tell me to fire 10%. No problem, I'll fire it if it's to get my picture taken in the paper, but that's why the system, so the authority of the administration whose head I'm on, will work slower. And that's a lot more damage than we're gonna save by doing five social cases. I really think that when people are fired, there has to be a good, strong reason not to bring about a new minister coming in 15 or a month after the change in power, so it brings 20 people. I repeat, during the government of Vojislav Kostunica there was one such attempt, it was a good intention, it was fired 10%, within six months everything was returned. So it can't be done indiscriminately. For local self-government, we managed to establish a really good system, and at a time of crisis, the government decided to give a billion and 100 million dinars. And that's why we're doing it. But when it comes to saving, it's not the only thing. Don't forget about the boards of directors, who in some very strange way became places where people get incredible money. This government is the first government to solve it. Their profits are limited to the average net earnings in the Republic. I'll remind you that before this government there were 250,000 dinars for that sitting on boards, and now for these same boards of directors, there are 32,000 in particular in the public company PTT traffic. Only in this company is savings at an annual level of 42,500,000 dinars. On the route of all public enterprises and other forms of organization that we covered by this provision, a billion dinars were saved on an annual basis. That's what this government did. I almost spoke to some fellow messengers who say, "Well, when did you do it?" We did it, but obviously it can't get a space in the media, so obviously nobody cares. And that's what the government did, that's what Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic initiated. We talked about it while we were ministers in the past government, but in this government we can do it because it is Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, so we managed to easily agree this principle, along with our colleagues in the government, Mr Dinkic and Mr Dacic. So that's what this is about. Today, the government adopted a new recommendation on public enterprises. Within a month, every citizen of this country will be able to press the button, using a mouse on the computer to see for every public enterprise and other form of organization (not to explain now what forms of organization) to see what the Director's salary is, what is the salary of the management staff, which regulates those salaries, which are rules on how official vehicles are used, how corporate cards are used, whether there are bonuses and what they are approved for (and in the future only the Government will approve them). This is the first government that has managed to put this system under control within a month. I repeat, every citizen will be able to click on the button to have an ID card for every company and to know how much Petar Petrovic in the company receives the salary. I totally agree with you that there's still so much to do, as a society, that there's still so much to change, but believe me, it's important, we have initial successes in that direction. These initial successes were not initiated by the crisis, they were initiated by the fact that it was really high time that one government started to introduce these things into some normal framework. I think we've managed to do something. We'll try to keep doing it as much as possible. All the suggestions and criticisms are welcome, we'll try to do it even better.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14472	Thank you. MP Dejan Radenkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14473	The Honorable Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, it is known that each crisis leaves the deepest and most severe consequences on the poorest layers of the population, which are primarily children, single parents, families with two and more children, sick, pensioners, rural people, refugees and displaced persons. These categories of population are hard to live anyway, and by deepening the crisis in us, their situation would worsen even more drastically. When the transition coincides with a major global crisis, as is happening now with us, then poverty becomes even more visible and with more drastic consequences. The SPS parliamentary group -- the JS believes that the government of the Republic of Serbia has great responsibility for the timely taking of systemic measures to mitigate the effects of the crisis. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister the following question: Is the Government, as part of the programme of mitigation measures due to the global economic crisis, planning to adopt a specific social programme, i.e. a measure to protect the poorest and most vulnerable categories of the population? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14474	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14475	This issue of a special social programme has already been and I've given an answer, but since it's explicitly repeated, I'll repeat what I've said. So the answer is yes, the issue of a specific social programme is considered. This special social programme is being organised by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. It's still on the table, we can't talk about what he's going to contain, but making that program is a function of warning unwanted events, or in the function of protecting workers who are left without a job and people who are affected by this crisis. In short, the program is, we're still not able to talk about his details.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14476	Thank you. The MP, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14477	I'll ask three questions, nine minutes, and if you had answered your colleague Vujadinovic, I wouldn't have had to ask two questions. Debts are problems in the world, we see. Debts are solutions, you say. Where's the truth? Are debt problems or solutions, or is the problem to the extent this government can't determine? The crisis has only caused problems accumulated by poor economic policy for the last eight years and has shown that we have almost nothing to protect, because we have no domestic production, we have no domestic banks, no state, no developmental, no private, through which we could do this support. We have, you admit, four billion euros in debt this year. They say it's 16% of gross social product. From the one we planned or from the one we're going to make? The difference is significant. So, from those six-seven, very optimistic, to these 3.5, I ask – from which gross social product? You say - we're over-indebted, we have $27 billion in debt. You say – Croatia has more foreign debt, but you do not say that Croatia has only 10% deficits, compared to our 16-18, as it estimates, which is the largest of all countries in the environment. Our budget is twice as small as Croatia, and they have, you say, more foreign debt than we do. All the time I'm going back to the basic question - what debt are we talking about, is it a long solution, who is assessing it, and from what will the debt be returned from? We're talking about an IMF arrangement, but, to be clear, I'm not asking 402m euros, I'm asking about new conditions for two billion euros, as far as the negotiations are concerned. It is a shame for the Serbian public and for us MPs to announce that the Bloomberg agency is negotiating 1.3 billion, to be silent here, and then to publish the information that two billion are being negotiated. Mr Muril Portugal's Deputy Director of the IMF impressed you with your willingness to co-operate. You don't have to impress us. You simply owe us because you negotiate on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, including ours, the answer to the question – do you know the true state of affairs in this country? Do you have the right balance, the data, and are you ready to report it to the IMF, and he will have the hearing to hear, which solutions suit us? If they offer solutions, they rarely, from experience, respond to the country to which they propose solutions, but they allow you to tell them which solutions suit us. One of the questions will be – what is the IMF's condition for loans? It can't be a secret. The IMF proposes recipes, we know from experience, whose advantage is to train the country to repay already taken loans. The question for the whole public is – does the map tower collapse, and it's called the building of all economies, built on excessive consumption? We are a state built on excessive consumption, advertised, promoted, and we all agree to spend more than what we produce, more than what we create, spending the future ahead. Did you take care of your debts to this day, from taking over? The budget was a house built from the roof, of necessity, not according to possibilities. It's too big for the Serbian economy. It's too much debt for our options. Please, Mrs Dragutinović, it is not a methodology for saying what international standards are when we assess the responsibility. Can our budget bear the debt, in terms of how four billion euros will come back this year? It doesn't matter what's external debt, what's public, what's the debt of citizens. They're citizens of our neighbors who work somewhere, who may be out of a job, so they won't have anything to pay off. I don't care about the methodology that you say yourself and erase responsibility when you think about what will be and how the debts will be paid back. Will the IMF make us take care of it or do we have to do it ourselves? I mean, the sense of measure in life has always been the secret of success, in all things, and you all know it, but now it's a feeling of measure of debt and of opportunity to bring it back to the secret of our survival, not success. Our survival is our common success. I really think that this question, which I repeat today, has been mentioned many times for this speaker – and what about the Public Debt Administration, what about the real assessment of whether only of us, of our will, of our strength, of the measures we make to create some means to repay the debt, or, as we see, of the global crisis, of other people's will, not of evil will, of objective circumstances, depends on whether it produces "Tiger", did the strategic partner come to "Fiat", did the owner of the "Aleme" just set up columns and leave the country? So, we have to, by estimating our duty to know what depends on us, not that we have the most pink version of optimisticly built projections that we're going to get a capital inflow in terms and I don't know everything. A serious state has to. I want to ask – what is the memo, that's another question, about co-operation between the government and the National Bank of Serbia, which was also conditioned by talks with the IMF? Everyone knows, I rarely say for who knows which time – almost all our problems stem from the misunderstood independence of the National Bank, or from the misrepresentation of Mr Jelasic that he is not obliged to account Serbia's citizens for his poor measures. The specific question is whether Mr Jelasic, not the entertainment committee, will personally be responsible for the loss of the National Bank, which in 2006, amounted to 386.000,000 euros, in 2007 180.000,000, and today you call it a subsidy from the government that you touch interest because the reference interest, which the governor has held and pushed so high for years, is the basis that today you only give banks jobs, and you guarantee them that they will be paid what they do, by which the state, let's translate, citizens from the budget, will pay the biggest possible interest in the environment. You destroyed the banking system, and you didn't lead to us having lower rates because of the competition, but that's why you guarantee them that, not for buying food, clothes, shoes and utility, which they need beyond... (President: Would you like to rephrase the third question? You've been talking for half a minute longer. )......................................................................................................... but for borrowing, the power to make a certain profit. I asked three questions. If they haven't been recorded, I'll repeat them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14478	They've been recorded. Thank you. Minister Dragutinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14479	I don't know what order I'm going to go in, whether I'm going to go from your first point, from your first question to your last question or vice versa, but since most of your questions are addressed to the National Bank's banking system and policy, I'm rather embarrassed that my interpretation isn't understood as a defense governor, it's really not my intention, but I would still go from the banking system and the NBS monetary policy. As much as I respect your expert opinion, Mrs Tabakovic, when it comes to monetary policy, the two of us disagree at all. So, who destroyed, in fact, the banking system and can we talk about the banking system, believe me, I know that even for family reasons, a good banking system that existed in the '80s and 1990s? So, in the 1980s and 1990s, the banks weren't banks, they weren't doing basic banking jobs -- neither could you raise your own foreign exchange savings, nor could you take credit. It's just that banks didn't do bank business. Still, to start with a situation that I somehow found. Suppose I am (and I am) a person who lost her old foreign currency savings. I kept my old foreign exchange savings in the famous Serbian, formerly Yugoslav banks. Would you (I) not re-invest your own foreign exchange or dinar savings in that bank that so gambled your savings? I guess when you lend to a friend, you lend it to him because you expect him to pay you back. So, I can discuss with you whether it's good, and it is better, to have banks and banking sectors in the hands of domestic owners; better private ones, because the privateer is always motivated by profit, than in his own country. But to put property aside, it's better that there are banks in the hands of domestic owners, especially in times of crisis like this right now. Did we have an alternative? Did we trust our banks? I mean, from this time distance, it was probably the fastest way to restore trust in the banking system. The moment some other banks showed up, they started returning savings to the banking system and banks to do what they exist for. They're just someone who transfers funds from those who have, conditionally, more financially than those who have less financial assets. What do I mean? People, clients, economic actors have regained trust in banks. It was done by new players, who, given the circumstances, were in foreign hands. Unfortunately, there's never been any trust in dinars. It's something completely different. In the banking system, yes, and that's because the ownership structure has changed. First, banks are mostly in private hands, and then because they're some banks that had a reputation, a reputation, right? How is monetary policy handled? Basically, it's terribly simple. Every central bank in the world, essentially, has two or three instruments, has an interest rate and has a mandatory reserve. If you're a country that doesn't believe in your own currency, then it's logical that at a high interest rate you attract dinar savings and it's logical that you essentially create conditions for as many dinars as possible. The high interest rate is, in fact, the price we all pay for the mistakes of monetary policy in the past. The mistakes of monetary policy in the past are best discussed by two hyperinflations. We had hyperinflation in 1989 and hyperinflation in 1993. We had hyperinflation at the end of the 20th century, much bigger than in the countries of Latin America (except Israel, Nicaragua, there were no more countries with high inflation), and these are all the mistakes of monetary policies in the past. Now the NBS is trying to correct you, if at all possible. The population has a long memory. We all remember that we lost our foreign exchange savings, we're all afraid of inflation. Inflation is a bauk. We all remember because inflation is connected to many ugly memories, lack of goods, etc. The high interest rate is, unfortunately, the price we have to pay for our mistakes. Is she tall or isn't she? Since it's been sacred and centuries, inflation has been defended by a high interest rate, or victory, so to speak. There is no example of any country that had high inflation and that high inflation knocked down at a low interest rate. There's another instrument, and it's a mandatory reserve. When you have a problem with inflation, it means that monetary policy must be restrictive. Monetary policy was a restrictive – high mandatory reserve, high interest rate. The fact is that high interest from the central bank affects the high interest rate of business banks. That definitely stands, but, like I said, that's the price we have to pay for past mistakes. Is the NBS the only central bank that has achieved a loss and is that a very unusual thing, and who is still making losses in the results of the operation of central banking institutions? These are, as a rule, countries that have high inflation, countries that have tried to cope with inflation over a long period of time. So losing is nothing unusual. The central bank, after all, differs from the business banks in that its motive is not profit, but is its motive to create even stable conditions of engagement, which are reflected in the inflation rate. Once again, I will clarify the nature of the loss of the central bank. The loss of a central bank that was achieved in those two or three years, I don't know exactly, was indeed 98% total accounting loss. It wasn't a real loss and it wasn't a loss that covered the state from its own budget. The central bank has foreign exchange reserves. Foreign reserve is a foreign exchange sign. You have 100 euros in one pocket on December 31st, 2006, and on December 31st of the following year you also have those same hundred euros, but that euro is somewhat cheaper. It's an accounting loss. That's the same thing the exporters asked us to do, as a state, to help them and not to show their business results differently than they are. If we had strictly respected international accounting standards, we would never have done that. But they have no real loss. They have, our export companies have an accounting loss resulting from a depression course in these conditions. So he's not really showing the state of health and the state's real health. So the interest rate is the only way to fight inflation, if you're monetary authority. There are other assets, profit policy, state policy, I don't dispute it, but if you're a central government, you have a National Bank and you have an interest rate. Interest rates are some price for past failures. The loss of Serbia's Central Bank was an accounting loss, not a loss of operation. As far as duty is concerned, I've never hid behind a methodology to make fiscal policy better. I was working the other way around. I was trying to apply the latest methodology to show as much real fiscal policy as possible. I didn't use it to show a smaller deficit, but vice versa, to show it to a bigger one, which he actually did. He's still relatively okay, so below about 3%. I can't argue that fiscal policy has been expansion since 2006. It was never my intention and I never used a methodology for it. All this time the state, as an economic actor, was not using its fiscal policy as a way of covering the deficit. The state, first of all, used privatisation revenues. As you know, privatisation revenues were high, there were two billion euros at one point. The two billion euros now fell to a much smaller amount. They were used to cover the deficits and pay off the debts. Do we know how much we owe? Believe me, I think we do. We know from the data available. We know how much the state owes. The state is obliged, expressed again in social product percentages, because that is all that matters when you make a decision on borrowing, 27% of the social product, with a tendency to make it less this year. The whole country has a duty to express as a percentage of participation in the social product, 62% of the social product. So, private sector, companies, banks, plus states, all together – 62% of the social product. As far as the total debt is concerned, it is the result of the private sector's debt. Do you think we should ban the private sector from borrowing? I don't think so. I think the private sector has well calculated that he needs some credit for growth in economic activity, and as soon as he gets that credit in the international capital market, they have estimated it too that he can repay the loan. What this country needs to take care of is the level of public debt. He's compared to the countries in the environment, we can safely say, low. There's no country that doesn't have a public debt, right? There is no country that has no external debt. I agree it's all a matter of measures. I think success would be to get out of this crisis, if God did, in 2009, and we and the world around us, because together it will all be easier if the public debt remains constant, and that means that we actually pay back the existing public debt. Otherwise, when it comes to how much this country needs in 2009 to allocate funds to repay the debt, I have to tell you that to repay the internal debt that is 230,000,000 euros and less than 200,000 thousand euros to repay the external public debt, all together is below 400,000 euros. (President: I thank you. Can I just go to the IMF?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14480	There will be questions, obviously, so you will answer. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14481	Thank you. I'll try to be brief. I'm not very happy that you've explained everything with your past and your emotions. All defenses of monetary-credit policies, mandatory reserve instruments, foreign exchange rates fall before the bank system's profits. So, the satisfied foreign banks that made a high profit at the expense of all those who had fine letters in contracts, changes, the growth of the euribor, etc. They've earned it, and someone's lost it. They didn't come here for altruistic reasons, but to earn money, we're clients, market, committees, etc. What I insist on is economic nationalism, desirable and acceptable there, but there is no one here to implement it on behalf of the banking system. The financial system, banking is the blood flow of the economy. When you give someone credit, you stimulate growth. When you don't give someone credit, you're suffocating that branch. When someone manages only by profit, without having any sense of neighbor working at the flag, and there's a Credit Bank or some Kragujevka, it's another relationship. The relationship between responsibility and the socially responsible state and the domestic banking system is linked and no one can dispute that. Losing a bank isn't accounting. Do you know what a methodology is? When Mr. Cvetkovic came after Dinkic for the finance minister, it turned out that because of the unshown 23 billion dinars for the Institute of Health Insurance Dinkic showed surplus, and Mr. Cvetkovic, the deficit, on the same figures, on the same economy, on the same citizens – is the methodology. In 2006, the National Bank of Serbia announced that inflation, as a target, would be 12%, and then repo would sell securities of value to repo operations, on which it paid interest at the beginning of 25%. The state, as the safest payer, offered double profits above inflation (this is a real loss), at the same time simultaneous actions programmed to play with the course. Someone's gonna answer for that one day. I'm not threatening, there's just too many left behind clues about us agreeing to be the fools someone made money on, and we all lose. So this cannot be justified by accounting and accounting criteria and techniques. Now you expect the foreign banks to give you 11% credit here, because you're going to subsidize the share, and at the same time the reference interest is 16%. So you're still encouraging the entry of speculative capital. That can't be tolerated.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14482	Thank you. Madam Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14483	Now, it's rather embarrassing for me to answer questions about monetary policy, but I'll say, since it's a bit of a profession for me – do you, Mrs. Tabakovic, think that the credit activity of the banks, if they had stayed in the hands of the state, would have been this big in the period since, say, 2004, in 2004? Do you think the credit activity of banks that are not fed by the inflow of capital on the outside would allow any economic growth? Do you think economic growth in this country without capital inflows would be about 6% and 7%, as it was, and that it would be enough to generate this kind of credit activity? So, just because we had the banking sector in the hands of foreigners who were bringing money from abroad... And I don't think any of us have anything against capital inflows and foreign direct investment, I guess. If the banks weren't in foreign hands, if it wasn't for this kind of capital inflow, you definitely can't show that credit activity would be this big. We, all together, I suppose, have defined ourselves as a private sector and competition. There is no private sector that is not motivated by profit. We even wanted to channel and reduce credit activity at one point, and only in this function were repo operations. If the NBS hadn't picked up the surplus liquidity, it would've all been picked up by citizens and inflation and the balance of payments deficits would've been even bigger. So, to conclude, I suppose you agree at least in this with me -- if it wasn't for the bank's duties, which are local banks, and in foreign hands, abroad, and the capital inflow, no credit activity would have been this big. As for the memorandum between the NBS and the state, it relates essentially only to the joint action of the NBS and the government in the fight against the effects of the financial crisis, i.e. to maintain financial stability. So that's all he's focused on. Otherwise, the measures taken by other countries by other central banks and states relate only to several types of measures: capital injection to nationalisation, guaranteeing interbank loans. That's two kinds of measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14484	A change of order has been arranged. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14485	Mr. Prime Minister, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, just two months ago Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mirko Cvetkovic told us here that the budget should be seen as the main package of measures the state is taking to go through the financial crisis. Today it is clear to everyone that the assumptions of the budget are not realistic and that they will not come true. Gross social product growth will not be 3.5%, the decline in imports and the decline in exports will be greater than planned. Negotiations with the IMF, which we read about in the paper, are evidence that there are serious problems with the revenue side of the budget. According to NBS Governors, the Prime Minister and Finance Minister are clear that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the NBS have very different visions of getting out of this crisis. It's enough to open a newspaper, and the evidence for these claims is too much. All of this was discussed by DSS MPs in the budget rebalancing debate and in the budget debate. In order to work effectively in Parliament and to speed up this debate, I will not talk about it, about the details relating to this segment. On behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, I have a little gift for the Prime Minister. Since the Prime Minister is now saying everything we said two or three months ago, I'm going to give him a stenographic debate on the budget. It will speed up this debate and help us to be much more efficient. Our basic and only problem is not the global economic crisis. What is extremely important for Serbia's further development is, above all, public sector reform. My question to the Prime Minister is: Mr Cvetkovic, are you planning to start a serious reform of the public sector, what laws are you planning to do and when will these laws come into the assembly procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14486	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14487	I thank you for your gift. I'll see what it says there. But let us return to the subject and today’s agenda, or answers to parliamentary questions. First of all, I'm not so sure there's a different view between the NBS and the government, but maybe it's about shades and the way they present their views. In addition to this claim, I am referring to the very fact of this memorandum signed and told by Minister Dragutinovic, whose task was to take joint responsibility for the measures taken in connection with the crisis, as well as the fiscal and monetary policy that has been located in these two institutions. The state has, in turn, taken a commitment to inflation that would be caused by the correction of the prices under its control. In general, I think it's the nuances, mostly the way of presentation, not the different vision, in the sense that the NBS has one philosophy and that we have another. That's not what it's really about. As for public sector reform, privatization of public enterprises, etc., I must say that reforms are part of our agenda, i.e. they are in the very focus of the functioning of this government. Of course, certain things are realised more slowly than we would expect, but not because the government wants to stop reforms, but because the economic situation around us has a different impact on the intended activities. I would mention an example of RTB Bor, where we are – although it is not a formal public sector, but you have a similar situation with JAT, Bor is much more characteristic – headed for privatisation a year, two days ago, at a time when it was quite large, to say, economic boom and activity. There, I think, in the first privatisation of nearly 30 companies expressed interest, and seven-eight bought the documentation. In the end, they were ready to give out certain numbers. Unfortunately, this project has not been implemented, and the result is that we are now going further into privatisation, and we have no solutions. Of course, we'll try to privatize once more, with the improvement of conditions. In the same sense, we have entered privatisation and some other public enterprises, but reforms in that domain are very difficult to implement when you on the other hand have no demand, or are very low prices, the stock market has fallen. You have a situation that we've launched a privatisation activity for Telecom and we've already chosen a financial advisor, and in the meantime, what happened? This model of privatisation through the initial public offering has proved to be completely ineffective at the moment. Stock indices have fallen and we'd probably have to sell by two or three times less than what we originally planned, so double or triple the amount we'd get. That is why, in one word, the government does not give up, on the contrary, insisting on implementing reforms both in public enterprises and in the public sector. But this is actually about the situation on the other side, so from the point of view of demand, it's less favourable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14488	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vlajko Senic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14489	President-in-Office, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, here are these two planned questions I'm going to put into one so the representatives of the opposition can speak more. I just want to say that we are in this debate, and now the Prime Minister Cvetkovic has spoken a little bit, somehow forgetting the environment in which we live and work today. I'm just going to say three illustrating figures. Today, the coincidence, the new president of the United States, presented the 2010 budget and summed up the 2009 budget; their deficit would be 1,750 billion or 12.3% of the social product. Another country, which is close to us, when we talk about frying foreign exchange reserves, has burned over $200 billion to defend the course of its currency. These are some things that happen all over the world. The stock market has dropped 70% in Russia, in America, 49%, in most European countries around 50%. So it's the environment where we live and work and there's no reason to ignore it and now pretend it's someone from power or someone from the opposition and to approach it differently. Of course, when you're a representative of the government and you're asking the government a question it might seem a little funny and people think they're pre-prepared questions. I think we need to get used to a division that will eventually have to exist in Serbia – that there is executive power and there is a legislative authority, and that just because we are MPs of the ruling coalition doesn't mean that we should be denied the right, moreover, to ask the ministers that we have chosen their plans, what their ideas are, and that we are looking for responsibility for the support we have given them. I will sum up these two questions in one way, they are approximately for Mrs Dragutinovic's finance minister: since there are different data, what is the estimate of the revenues for the first two months of the budget, there is a lot of talk in the public about the need for budget rebalance, what is the strategy for the possible compensation of any major deficit? The second question: is there an increase in VAT as a measure that would eventually solve some problems? Now I won't speak my mind, nor will the position of the party G17 plus on it. I think that's an important question and that the public needs to know what the government's strategy is, because the government is, let me say and end this, in a difficult situation. On the one hand, we are all forced to save, and on the other hand, the government has to spend more to compensate for the lack of demand that exists, logically, there are fewer foreign investments, fewer loans, economic contractions, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14490	Thank you. From what I understand, you still asked two questions. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14491	So the finance minister is never satisfied with the revenue he collects because he feels much more comfortable when the cash is full than when something is less empty. January is the only month for which we have complete data. The month of January was one working day less than in January 2008. If the number of working days were corrected, because every working day brings some income, we could say that tax and non-tax revenues, but what are so-called. budget sources, therefore, are not taken into account their own resources, in January the month was nominally lower than one 3%. As for February of the month, only in February of the month, but on the last day of February, as the last day of February is the day when the highest fiscal income should be collected, which is the revenue from excise duties, it will not be collected in February but in early March... At this point, I can't tell you exactly, but it seems to me that, based on these two months, incomes may be slightly lower in nominal amount, and at an annual level, a significantly smaller amount than what we planned. What idea and solutions does the Ministry of Finance have in mind? I'm sure it's the easiest way to increase the VAT. So it's no easier than to raise the tax rate. It will be a means only in extreme need. So at this point, we're not even thinking about increasing the VAT rate. What we're thinking about, and hopefully that's what we're going to hear about, is one very big action of the Tax Administration, because in the last six to nine months, an increased ejaculation has been observed when VAT is concerned. If there is a fall in tax revenues or incomes are not realized by that dynamic that allows the deficit to be as much as we planned, we intend to essentially increase that deficit. As for the source of the deficit funding, at this point we have secured the funds of international financial institutions, which are cheap assets, and we have revenues from privatisation that we expect to be 20 billion dinars, these are relatively small privatisations. Also, there are revenues, the payment of the state's claim of ten billion dinars. At this point, with these reserves that we have, and you know there's still 200,000 euros left in the account plus 160,000,000 of NIS sales, we don't think it's necessary to increase the VAT rate. We think that something, but not much, could increase the deficit and sources of funding.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14492	Thank you. The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14493	Thank you, Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, my question concerns the IPA Funds, and in the context of the statement by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Djelic, that we will use the possibility of accessing IPA funds to stabilise the budget and to invest. There is no need to stress the importance of all these funds for societies that have been in transition and for countries that claim to apply for EU membership. I'm interested in what are the levels of applications, and in the context of these measures that the government is taking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14494	Mr. Prime Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14495	I'm going to try to answer without getting into the details because the discussion on this topic is going on and it's not good to prejudge forwards, I'm just going to explain the point and where the talks are going. So we have a conversation with Europeans in one part, so that we need them through macro-financial assistance to provide us with certain resources that we could cover the budget deficit. Of course, in order for these funds to be provided, we need to have a successful completion and arrangement with the IMF, and these are the combined containers that go in order: first the IMF, and then the request for macro-financial assistance. But what's important here to understand is that any macro-financial assistance from this guy we talked about is actually a loan. So this is about something that they give, truth, under favourable conditions, as well as other multilateral financial institutions, with a grace period, a long period of payment, a low interest rate, etc., but it is still a loan that you basically or finance a deficit or do, in fact, pay off the debts that have come to you in the meantime, and thus you remain at the level of public debt debt that was before that. When these talks are on the subject, then we say – well, we can get some free macro-financial assistance in terms of some donations, because we know that there's one part that's given in the form of a grenade. We've received information that this grant part has already been spent and intended for others who, of course, have been before... or are closer, members of the European Union, etc. Then, among other things, a conversation began on the subject of these IPA funds. Otherwise, when it comes to IPA funds, it is actually about certain pre-accession funds, i.e. the funds intended for various countries that are preparing to become candidates and later EU members. As a result, they have a right, there are a number of components, so I don't know how many components you're entitled to until you're not even a candidate, so when you become a candidate, there's an increase in the number of components, etc., but these IPA funds are basically some kind of project loans, project financing, because they're basically grants. What does that mean? It's grenades and all you get through those IPA funds is, in fact, a gift. For the sake of illustrations, today there were talk of infrastructure when Minister Mrkonjic spoke, one part of the funds from these IPA funds will be used for the Željev Bridge in Novi Sad. About half of the bridge will be built free of charge, and half will be provided by Vojvodina. What's this really about and what's the connection between this IPA fund story? The connection is that there has been some possibility, and this is now being discussed, that a part, perhaps even a large part, of IPA funds "supervise" from the point of view of the project approach. So, to say - no, this will no longer be a project approach, in the sense that money will be given to you for certain purposes only, but will be given within the framework of the budget deficit coverage as a single single sum. De facto, it will also be projects, but not some of the projects that we have agreed with them, but projects that we otherwise implement within the budget. At the end of the line, that's what you say the money isn't colored; whatever comes to you, you can dispose of it any way you want. This, in particular, is a philosophy and with this philosophy we would allow one significant part of the macro-financial assistance from Europeans to be in the form of a favourable long-term loan, but one portion would now appear which would be on the principle of a grant, so it would not burden or increase the government's duties. I think you're interested in hearing, and if you're not, I could've broken up sooner. So, given all this, it's about the story of these IPA funds, but I don't want to give details because the talks aren't even around yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14496	Thank you. National MP Miroslav Markicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14497	Dear Presidents, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, on today's day of Saint Simeon Mirocivo, when we celebrate the founder of the modern state of Serbia, or the beginning of statehood, I have questions for Mr. Prime Minister, very short questions that the prime minister would have to know in two nights to wake him up. If you answer exactly and very precisely these two questions I ask you, I think that the citizens of Serbia, the economy and the professional and economic public will be encouraged, and if you do not answer, I think that all Serbian citizens will have reason to be concerned. The first question - on today, February 26th, exactly what exactly are our country's foreign reserves in euro? In which banks are they held and under what conditions? Secondly, we are familiar with Governor Jelasic's statement that in the last month and a half, almost two months, about 600,000 euros were sold to defend the course of the dinar, or to strengthen our currency, so I ask the question - who buys these foreign exchanges every day? It seems to me that 27,000,000 euros were sold yesterday. Where are the dinars of these sold foreign exchanges? I have a third question, Mr. President, which is a little easier. I don't know which of your colleagues here could answer, but I've been informed by people from southern Serbia that it's the Water Administration, I think it's with the Ministry of Agriculture, that it's decided that this year not to exploit sand and gravel from the Great Morava, West Morava and South Morava, which basically means that the exploitation of sand and gravel can only be done from Sava and Danube alone. As part of this third question, was the decision taken to prevent the country's erosion and water flow violations of these three Serbian rivers, or was it because the daughter of the president of one of our neighbouring countries has leased some quarryes hoping to have a monopoly on the sale of millstone in the construction of Corridor 10? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14498	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14499	I will now be much shorter, given that of these three issues two do not apply to the government, and one that concerns the government I do not have an answer, since my resolution minister is not there. Let's get to the questions. With questions about where the reserves are on that day and that day, where the banks are held, etc., I am really appealing and I said at the beginning, let it be an experience, that next month (because this is going to be traditional meetings) you may also have to call the governor and then you can ask questions. What I do know is that the reserves are held mostly in tripple A banks, so, in the best banks, and they're partly kept in the papers, with state papers being the richest countries. But that's kind of a sort of, let me say, state secrets, with what I'm assuming he might be able to tell you, maybe not the name and name of the bank, but the structure -- in the papers there's so much, in this so much, in this so much. It would be really good if the issue were to be raised and considered. As for the defence course and the entire operation at all, it should be borne in mind that the sale of foreign exchange reserves and the consumption of foreign reserves is not, in fact, a waste in the classical sense of that word because you have a contradiction. It's just like when you go out and buy bread, and someone says, "You've spent money." But I have bread. So the sale of the currency is a two-sided process where you did sell the foreign exchanges, but then you pulled the dinars, and you theoretically reduced the amount of dinars in the optics that are now in your possession. It's an operation similar to when you're pulling repo liquidity from the market, so you're left with dinars. The third question is most specific, and I would ask the MP Markicevic to see, because I don't know, I'm not from the water industry, but I understood that this is a significant question and that there are some family relations, so I'll pass it on and then you'll get a written answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14500	Thank you. Mr. Markicevic has the right to question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14501	Mr. President, I am not satisfied with the answer to this first question. Since these days about declaring and issuing a state secret on the Kovacevic case, there have been a lot of stories in the media, the public and politics, I ask you when the data on the amount of foreign reserves, and where do we keep them, declared a state secret?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14502	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14503	As for the amount of foreign reserves, it's not a state secret, but as I've been informed, the places where they are kept is a state secret. I appeal to you again, it's really not a government matter, the government doesn't keep foreign reserves, it's a matter of the National Bank. If the governor were here, he would tell you right away in the dinar exactly how much they were the day they went down, how much they increased, as we know our budget situation was this morning, how much we paid for it, etc. I urge you again to invite the governor to join our little team here for the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14504	Thank you. Mr. Free Maras has the word. The government has 20 minutes left to answer our questions, ladies and gentlemen MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14505	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen and Mrs. Ministers, before I ask the question, I would like to draw attention to a few facts that were evident during this debate. The first and most basic is, Mr. Cvetkovic, that, unfortunately, today has confirmed that you do not know what the primary business of the government is. You criticized the LDP MP group when she talked to you about what was a little more talk about politics; I assume you wanted to talk more about accounting or some numbers. I'll read you article 123. The Constitution – Government jurisdiction: 1st determines and leads politics. Mr. Cvetkovic, we see little politics in all of this, we see little politics, so it is economic, and we see little politics that you are ready to share responsibility with the opposition and to share in general responsibility with citizens. We had a chance to hear from Mr Markovic and some of the ministers the story that this government is very thrifty, but it's obviously very insecure to itself. I'll ask you two questions. One area is the problem of gas, i.e. the government's problem, which is probably the weakest in Europe when it comes to the gas crisis. We ran out of gas on the first day. There's been a lot of damage to the citizens, and there's been a lot of damage to the economy. Some countries that had a reserve in a few weeks, such as Germany, have declared a state of emergency in the area for a simple reason to help their economy. Our government... I also have stenograms from the board on which Mr. Skundric was on, ten days after the programme that the LDP announced, and about helping citizens and the economy with the gas crisis, Mr. Skundric confirmed on that committee that our government will do something similar, or that it will help economic operators and citizens. It's the end of February, so the citizens will get their bills from the 60% increase. I'm interested in when you're going to announce, when you're going to say the measures that will help citizens and businesses because of the damage they've suffered from the gas crisis. I'm also interested in whether what's been published today is true, I'm sorry that Mr. Skundric or Mr. Bajatovic are not here, but I have to ask you – today in "Politica" it has been announced that "Srbigas" and "Gasprom" have decided to postpone signing a contract to form a joint firm, which was scheduled for March, which starts in a few days, so I would like you to respond in this context. The second thing I'm interested in, I'll quote from your regulation on liquidity loans, or short-term loans. So, a quote from the government program says, "The state gives two billion dinars, and banks place 40 billion dinars of liquidity loans. Half of these funds will go towards export financing, and half of these funds will be loans from suppliers of large trade chains." Is that so, Mr. Cvetkovic? Will we have continuity in the policy led by previous governments, both Kostunica's government, which had a protective, or favouring relationship to large trade chains, specifically "Delta"? Is this money going to finance the Mercator purchase? Be careful, suppliers, to whom Delta owes 300-four million euros, will now get a chance to borrow loans. Once again, we favour, who knows which way, big systems, big trade chains and, of course, the Delta Company first. I'd like to make that clear one more time if it's necessary, to know if this way, by giving the suppliers credit, will finance someone's inability to pay their debts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14506	Thank you, Mr. Marash. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14507	I thank you for asking questions. Especially this other one is directly related to the topic, but it's a good thing you mentioned the gas and the gas situation. She has some history, present and future. I also thank you for giving me the opportunity to comment on the behaviour of our government at the moment when the gas shortage occurred and how all this was happening, especially considering that, apart from the criticisms I had had to read here, we were mostly congratulated by foreigners that in very difficult circumstances, we did what was necessary and avoided greater damage. First of all, I want to tell you that the gas has stopped delivering in a very dramatic way and, practically, in one day, information has changed every two or three hours. I remember, it was January, right after New Year's, when I got the information that there were problems in the morning, but that delivery was going normal. This was, for example, about 7-7.30 hours; at 9 o'clock information arrived that 25% would be reduced to delivery, at 12 o'clock information came that they would be reduced by 50%. At the first 25% we organized a crisis headquarters and met in the government, although it was a holiday, and at that crisis headquarters we went out with some measures of what to do in view of the planned 25% reduction, and later on, we found out that it was 50%. We have applied the appropriate steps of gradually shutting down part of the industry, moving on to the mule wherever possible, in certain security situations and additional aggregates for hospitals where not possible, etc. I wouldn't go into details right now. The speed of the reaction that we faced was such that we, in practice, were in the process of taking measures to reduce the gas of 50% received information that it would completely stop. But thanks to the fact that we've done these measures, we've managed to get our industry to perform what's called non-havarian decommissioning, or down to some state of rest, which, otherwise, was unorganized, could have caused great and irreparable damage to many plants. The effect of all of this, you know later on and for loans, etc., is that we got in this series of conversations very positive assessments about it, about our behavior. I remember that at the same time we recorded records in electricity production; this system, in which we have no new aggregates in the last 20 years, has managed to withstand it. I congratulated you at the time because we didn't have any problems that could have happened to us. It's kind of a direct past. Now let's see what the present is and what the future is. In parallel with solving these current problems, we began to wonder why we came into such a situation, what it was that we could do, and what it wasn't, and what it is that we can and should do that never happened to us. What is concluded on that occasion is that we essentially have an unfinished Banatski Dvor project that cannot be used because there is no adequate infrastructure, although there was a quantity of gas inside that was quite satisfactory for us. For your information, at that point in Banatski Dvor there were about 110 - 120 million normal cubic meters, and that thrust that was supposed to remain, like a thrust under which it was not allowed to descend, was 70 - 80. We could, theoretically, even from such a semi-charged warehouse, pull 50 million normal cubic meters, where our daily consumption, which we actually got on loan, amounted to a little less than five million a day, followed by a simple calculation, that even with a pre-filled warehouse like this, we could have done it for ten days, without any help on the side, to solve it. Therefore, it was not our problem to fill the warehouse, which we did during the summer period last year, but rather the problem was the lack of technical infrastructure to get that amount out of it; practically, it makes it possible to get everything about half a million instead of ten times more, or five million. On this basis, we have concluded that we need to provide funds, through the NIP or in other ways, to end it in the summer season of this year, if we could add gas, put an end to that problem, and that, if that happens again next winter, we no longer find ourselves in the situation in which we find ourselves, as the most affected country. The amount of funds needed has been determined and they are moving around 50m euros to charge, meaning, for an additional amount of gas to enter, and about 20m for construction of the infrastructure consisting of some feeds, drains, compressors, etc. A plan has been made and it is set as a priority and will be done this year. Meanwhile, additional sources of funding have been sought and negotiations are being held at the moment with the German KFW, which is ready to finance all this. That's what we expect in the future. As far as the present is concerned, because of the devaluation of the dinars, our dinar gas prices, which we referred to consumers, are actually less than the prices we paid at the entrance of gas to Serbia. At that point, it was a month ago, we sat down to seriously consider what to do with "Serbiagas", which achieved losses on the agenda of around 900,000 euros. We've calculated that it's about 25,000,000 on the monthly level, that there's going to be a loss, as a result of the simple fact that you're getting something for 100 dinars, and you're selling it for 80 dinars, and then the question is whether it makes sense or not. To meet precisely the economy and population in this difficult situation, we have made one decision, which may not have been quite economical and was quite difficult, but we still think it is correct. We made a decision not to increase the price of gas, to keep it at that level, which basically meant that we had to provide additional funds that would be placed as subsidies in the economy and the population using gas, because of the fact that we were getting it at a higher price and selling it at a lower price. That's also a day-to-day case, that would be about $25,000,000 or EUR, I'm not sure, at a monthly level. Since I've got half a minute left, and I'm going to be entitled to a five-minute replica, I'd just like to tie myself to this second question. On the second question, what is our intensity is that the government absolutely does not affect the choice of bank clients. It puts us in a position that no one can blame us just what you said – that we choose clients, that we choose this one or that one. So it's not true that we said -- chains and non-chains, but it says there: half of the funds go for export incentives, half the funds for domestic liquidity, 30% of that part to refinance the existing and 70% for new ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14508	Thank you, Mr. President. A question, Mr. Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14509	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the government, Mr Cvetkovic, we heard from Mr Skundric on that committee that large quantities of mules were ordered in October. And then you knew there was going to be a gas crisis. There is no one who is seriously involved in politics without knowing that there is a conflict between Russia and Ukraine, a financial conflict. You've allowed, as Prime Minister, us to run out of gas the first time these guys rolled the tap. You've made a fine story about what's in the past, what's going to happen in the future, what's in the present; you've told it all in nine minutes and 30 seconds, it's really nice to listen, who wants to relax, but there's not a shred of life, there's no shred of truth. In October, a mule was ordered, which Mr. Skundric admitted, because it was known there would be no gas. For days, we were convinced that everything would be fine, that this dispute would not affect us. Our great friend, Gazprom, is other countries, although Germany and Austria have a storage facility, he was giving us gas; he wasn't giving us gas, but we had to buy at commercial prices, which are much higher. When will the Banatski Court be completed? We're getting into March. There's not much time to get technical. You didn't answer my question, I decided him – is it true what it says in today's "Politics", that "Srbiagas" and "Gasprom" agreed not to sign now in March, when it is scheduled, but to postpone for a while the establishment of a joint venture to create South Stream, which is why we sold Naftagas, as Mr Dinkic (who unfortunately isn't there) said by 400,000, and he was worth four billion euros in 2007, if I understood him well? We sold it for $400,000 for South Stream. Today it says that the directors of "Serbigas" and "Gasproma" have decided not to form the company. I'm just talking about you being here, I don't mean specifically you, but the general government isn't telling the truth, or something wants to keep quiet. Don't get me wrong, you know that people often characterize you as Santa Claus, and Mrs. Finance has characterized herself as Harry Potter, or that she would like to be Harry Potter -- these are fictional characters, or characters who are supposed to meet wishes, but I'm afraid that at the end of this fairy tale that you're leading the government, the evil wolf will come and eat all the goats, that none of this story will be, and that Serbia's citizens will see very soon... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14510	You had three minutes. We know the story to the end. It's not real. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14511	So I can understand that there is a political position that is negative for one transaction, primarily regarding NIS, but I think that from that political attitude, if we want to judge clear heads, we shouldn't be led to a preconceivement. I'd go back to the fact. The facts are that we did go through a crisis, which could have been a terrible scale, with minimal problems, which primarily referred to those consumers who couldn't move on to the lube as alternative fuel, and then remained practically a day or two, until we consolidated these loans. It's a fact everyone knows. Also, I would like to say that at that moment we have shown great solidarity, so we are part of that, so to speak, of the church we have been sent to Sarajevo, to the former Yugoslav republic, and now to the state, BiH. The move caused favourable political and other echoes, although it wasn't our desire to score political points, but we felt compassion for people at such low temperatures. So, as far as the gas is concerned, I think I've said a lot about it. This calendar year, i.e. before the beginning of the heating season, will come to an end and so on. The first stages of work in Banatski Dvor and from that moment on, we will no longer have problems, even in such drastic cases. As for your policy issue, I have to say I'm not familiar with it, but I would gladly give you a written answer through the Ministry of Energy, because I'm not in progress. That wasn't on the agenda. A few more sentences I'd like to dedicate to the choice of clients, as far as our incentive measures are concerned. First of all, I want to say, I see that this has not been seen, that with relatively small budgets we generate a huge financial potential, measured in hundreds of millions of euros. That's what you just read, that we've made 20 billion credit potentials with one billion. This is one of our ideas, which has allowed us to manage in such a difficult budgetary situation to provide macroeconomicly significant resources, which we can place in the economy. What we wanted to give up in the beginning, and I see that there are still relapses of these ideas that we choose our relatives and party friends as loan users, we said in the beginning – no, we will not do that. But even if we said, yes, we would, we wouldn't be able to do that in a model where our resources represent only a catalyst in creating these significant financial injections. You can't tell the bank – give your money to my friend, although he doesn't answer. Simply, the bank, which is a private bank and is managed, as has just been said, by private interests in profit, for safety, makes a decision on who it will give. There's no big, small chains here, no chains like this, no ones like that. In addition, in these regulations, we have also foreseen maximum amounts to cover the largest circle of users, not to distribute large funds in a small circle.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14512	Thank you. Now the question will be asked by MP Bozidar Delic. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. We have five minutes to answer the government, so Mr. Delic will ask another question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14513	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I have the opportunity to ask only one question and since no one has spoken about Kosovo and Metohija today, I would like to introduce you to the fact that on February 17th, a large group of our MPs was in Kosovo and Metohija, in Kosovo Mitrovica. There we met with a number of people and were present at a session of the Assembly of the Serb Municipalitys in Kosovo and Metohija. They highlighted many problems, including economic, financial, security. Discussing these people, it can be concluded that there is great concern for the future of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, especially after the Eulex mission arrives. Serbian officials in various contacts are very soft, almost exclusively on the diplomatic plan, the defences of Kosovo and Metohija as an inseparable part of Serbia. With that in mind, Mr. Prime Minister, I expect that you in the government have assessed all possible scenarios that can happen in Kosovo and Metohija and in relation to Kosovo and Metohija. On this issue, I became today a shameful court decision in The Hague, where five Serbs received another 100 years of imprisonment. It's almost a life sentence for all of them. Another court in The Hague, the International Court of Justice, resolves the Kosovo and Metohija issue. That is why I, and I believe Serbian citizens, Mr. Prime Minister, are interested in answering the following question: what will the Serbian government do if the International Court of Justice in The Hague makes a negative decision in relation to the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14514	Here you go, Mr. President, although it's a matter off topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14515	I would say that as far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, of course, the government's position is what it was at the time of its formation and that, apart from European integration, it is one of three... Let's say, European integration, the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija and the economic sphere are our basic principles on which we operate and we insist. When it comes to the issue of economics and economic problems, you know that there have been problems, some strikes have recently been related to the "Electroprivreda" workers who were once put in a position to reduce their incomes. A few days ago, I invited Minister Skundric and Minister Bogdanovic to the cabinet and we sought a solution, which was eventually found. Today, at the cabinet session, we have made an amendment to that decision, allowing these workers to return to the position they were in prior to the adoption of that provision, so that practically their financial issue will be resolved in a satisfactory manner. As for the issues of the Hague court, this tribunal, and not the other, we feel that the verdicts of this five of our people are inappropriately high, especially if the liberating verdict received by Ramush Haradinaj is taken into account. In this regard, we expect them to complain, take appropriate procedural actions, and we will help them as we do in other cases. On the issue of The Hague Court of Justice, therefore, not the Tribunal, I would like to say that we have a deep confidence that we are right and that this court will make a decision based solely on legal arguments, so we are optimisticly expecting his further work in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-26-0.u14516	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just finished 178 minutes of answering the parliamentary questions of government members, prime ministers and ministers who are here. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the ministers who participated in the work on your behalf and in my behalf. I would also like to say that today's way of working is a newspaper and that the expression of strengthening Parliament's control function is over executives, or government. Thank you. We are finishing work in the day for answers to parliamentary questions about the current topic. You will be informed about your work during the regular session in the near future.
