ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18695	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 117 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Would one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Rule 235 of our Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Željko Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18696	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members of the People, I would like to ask one thing, since it is generally known that following the adoption of budget rebalancing in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there is also a budget rebalance in the AP Vojvodina Assembly. We, as the DSS Parliament Club, are expecting a report from the AP Vojvodina Assembly. Namely, the budget of the AP Vojvodina Assembly recently adopted clearly shows that funds are foreseen, among other things, for the increase of parliamentary breaks in the AP Vojvodina Assembly. When we talk about saving, about rationalising, we want to know if this applies to all levels of government in the Republic of Serbia. It is also not up to remind and appeal that the head of the Fund for Capital Investments of the Parliament of Vojvodina is the president of the Executive Council, Mr Bojan Pajtic and three regional secretaries, and that the chairman of the Supervisory Board is Mr Zoltan Bunjik, who is otherwise being prosecuted for financial malversions. Is there a control of the work of the Capital Investment Fund at the AP Vojvodina Assembly and can we, as Members of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, have any insight into the work and results of that fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18697	Thank you. The word is Mr Miroslav Markicevic, representative of the NS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18698	President-in-Office, respected citizens of Serbia, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I have one question, in fact, I ask you, Madam President, as far as this high volume is concerned, and I think that you, as our president and as representative of the MPs here, would have to give us additional notice. What's this about? Yesterday, in a daily newspaper, we saw an interview by a great thinker of this country in the image of our dear president, who presented the idea that we should reduce the number of MPs from 250 to 150. As for New Serbia and the NS Parliament Club, we don't mind reducing the number of state officials at all levels, but we just don't understand how our great thinker didn't remember to change something that didn't need to change the Constitution, and we all know how some parts of the Constitution change, which is the procedure -- here in the Assembly, the referendum, etc. How did our dear president not remember to reduce the number of ministries and the number of ministers? That only takes one session here. Because it has not been done, as an example to the Serbian citizens as it is being saved, we now have a situation of having 30 ministers and 300 secretaries. Well, then we have extra tension here in the National Assembly. Some fellow MPs have been very frustrated since they recently changed party uniforms as a good investment, so they have failed to enter any wide circle of 30 ministers and 300 secretaries, and then this causes unnecessary additional tensions here in the National Assembly. Seeing as how we've come to this nicer and better hall that, by some estimates, we're working a little harder and faster, I'd like you to comment on the opinion of our dear president, to say what you think about it. Does the National Assembly need to make a statement? Does with that number of 150 MPs, the president of our country want to derail the subject from the right things, from the real savings, from the hard life that our citizens live? Whether it wants to introduce additional centralisation and then publicly, honestly, we tell the citizens that all MPs should be from Belgrade, because our dear president is not on the road to Serbia because he does not seem to be informed that many major cities and municipalities do not have representatives in the National Assembly either. So I repeat for those who would deliberately interpret what I say, as far as New Serbia is concerned, there is no problem in reducing the number of MPs in this assembly to 150, but we are not clear that a great thinker in the image of our dear president has not thought of starting with the government and reducing the number of unnecessary ministries. We know that some parliamentary groups, our colleagues, as LDP, have already proposed a law on reducing the number of ministries. It seems to me that this proposal is very correct, useful and justifiable, so I would like you to say your opinion to the citizens of Serbia, based on all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18699	In fact, the proposal you're talking about is not in the process, but it is the right of every citizen, and the right and obligation of the president of the Republic of Serbia to inform the public about his views. The word is Mrs. Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18700	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, first of all, and on the basis of Article 88(2), I would like to request a notice from you – what representatives of the Serbian government are we expecting during today's session scheduled for work on the Serbian government's supervision between 16:00 and 19.00 hours? So far, we have no information who will be coming from the Serbian government today, so we would like as soon as possible to get it in order to prepare ourselves for a good and reasoned debate. That's the first thing. Secondly, what the public in Serbia really is interested in lately concerns their health. We had the opportunity to hear representatives of the World Health Organization during the afternoon, about popularly called swine flu, that slowly but surely the world is skating into the pandemic, that what all countries should take care of is the following - this flu virus has one very distinctive feature, that it actually appears in completely altered form after rest, and it is very difficult to resuscitate it itself, or it is difficult to fight it. What we expect from the health minister is, first of all, to appear before parliament as soon as possible, but before it answers the question of how the state of Serbia has prepared itself to combat such a dangerous virus, are we actually ready to resolve all the health consequences of this virus, since we see it taking a very large toll in the countries where it appears, and what is the current situation with the state of Serbia. The next question concerns Kosovo and Metohija. What the Serbian Radical Party is particularly interested in is what the Serbian government has all taken to protect Serbia's Orthodox and cultural heritage in Kosovo's and Metohija's territory, where, as everyone should know, there are 1,500 monasteries, churches, pastures and other symbols of the Serbian religious and cultural heritage from the Middle Ages to today. We witnessed the March pogrom in 2004, when the Cypriot terrorists tried to erase the centuries-old existence of the Serbian state in KIM territory by expressing their anger in Serbian sanctifications. To this day, we have not learned the information about who is the signator of such brutal violence during the March pogrom in 2004. But what is also very important, it has been happening in the last month, which is actually rarely who knows, is that recently the ceremony marked the beginning of work on the creation of a database of cultural treasure of independent Kosovo, attended by the self-called culture, youth and sports minister Valjton Beqiri and a certain ambassador of Great Britain in Kosovo and Metohija Mr. Andrew Sparks. We think this is inadmissible and this needs to be reconsidered. In what way? This database includes Serbian cultural treasure, which is now proud of drug dealers and terrorists in Kosovo and Metohija, and this, as we can see, with the support of the United Kingdom's diplomatic mission. The issue should be concrete – what has the Serbian government done to prevent the acquisition of Serb religious and cultural symbols and monuments in Kosovo and Metohija? Also, what has the Serbian government done to form a database on the Serbian religious and cultural heritage in Kosovo and Metohija that will be authentic and accurate, which will be able to be used in Serbia and abroad? Also, a question for the foreign minister, in addition to the Minister for Kosovo and Metohija and the first minister of the Serbian government – what diplomatic measures has the Serbian government taken to point out, say, to the UK government that they have no right to specifically steal the religious and cultural treasures of Serbia, how have they done before in Egypt, China, India and now in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? Finally, did the Serbian government take any measures to obtain confirmation in the scientific circles of Great Britain and other European Union countries that the religious and cultural treasures of Kosovo and Metohija are only Serbian cultural treasures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18701	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18702	I would like to ask just one question – what does the Institute of the 235th Rules of Procedure of this Assembly serve in the first place, if the Parliamentary Club Forwards of the Serbian Progressive Parties has not yet received an answer to any question in the way that the Rules of Procedure prescribes, although according to Article 5 of the 235th, people we ask questions are still obliged to answer in writing within 15 days? So we have not received any questions in accordance with the parliamentary possibilities and business conditions. Is this a way to just show that in this country it is possible to ask everything and that in that flood of questions you can silence the answer to anything? I urge you, Madam President of the Assembly, to introduce the importance of the Assembly and the application of this Rules of Procedure in such a way that the executive authority, which we most often address, is worthy of the seriousness of the questions we are asking here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18703	Mrs Tabakovic, your conclusion is that you should initiate both parliament and myself personally to address the government once more and insist on respecting the Rules of Procedure. She is, unfortunately, in some cases correct. Is there anyone else who would like to speak to you in accordance with the article? 235? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for today's session, in addition to the proposing representatives, to attend: Dejan Jovanovic, Nebojsa Ciric and Vesna Arsic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Jelena Popovic, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Nenad Ilic and Dejan Radulovic, advisers at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. I also called for part of the session to be held in detail on points 22, 23, 24 and 25 of the agenda to be attended by: Mirjana Ćojbašić, Assistant Minister for the National Investment Plan, Edi Majstorović, Head of the Office of the National Investment Plan, Radmila Petkovic and Natasa Sokolović of the Ministry of National Investment Plan, then Goran Petkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Trade and Services, Ana Blagojevic and Jelena Popovic, Assistant Minister of Trade and Services, and for the search in particular on points 26 and 27. Ljiljana Juver, assistant economy and regional development minister and Tatjana Prijic, head of the department at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. In view of the fact that at least 126 MPs attend today's session, they have obtained the conditions for the National Assembly to decide on a proposal for the agenda for an emergency procedure during the session, pursuant to Article 165(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Committee for Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is, on the basis of Article 165(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that, by emergency procedure, this session be put on the agenda of this session – a proposal from the High Council of Justice candidate for the election member of the High Council of the Court of First Instance in the order of the judges of the municipal courts, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the High Council of Justice on 7 April 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. First, let's determine the quorum. Please, you'll have to put the cards in the MPs' units again to determine the quorum. I'm setting a break of ten minutes. I ask the MPs to enter the O.R. so that we can have a quorum and put this point, which is extremely significant, on the agenda. [[After break – 10.40]] Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you first to establish the quorum. Please insert the cards into the MPs' units. The Committee for Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is, on the basis of Article 165(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that this session be put on the agenda of an emergency procedure – a proposal from the High Council of Justice candidate for the election member of the High Council of the Court of Justice from the order of the judges of the municipal courts, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the High Council of Justice on 7 April 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 127 out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Proposal for a candidate of the High Council of Justice for an election member of the First Chamber of the High Council of the Court of Justice from the order of the judges of the municipal courts shall become the 50th item of the agenda of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Session. Gentlemen, since the government's representatives will not be present until 13.00 hours, we will continue our work at 13.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18707	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, the first question, which I have long asked, for the Minister of Economy, automatically for both the prime minister and the entire government -- what about the pre-election promise of 1,000 euros in the name of free actions for every citizen of this country? That's the first question there is no answer to. The second question is for the Minister of Sports and Youth (if it is called so), nothing caused by the Minister of Sports and Youth and, also, the prime minister – what will the government do to resuscitate the dramatic situation in the FK "Red Star"? "Red Star" is not just management and football players, "Red Star" is a fan army, "Red Star" is part of a national identity, as European and world champion, "Red Star" is the pride of this country, "Red Star" is in the hearts of millions of people. I'm just asking if the government is going to do something to resuscitate this dramatic situation in the Red Star, which some of them have apparently provoked, which some people want to do, to go to the era, to be scattered as "Alaibbe's straw". So, will the government do anything about it? The third question is for the Minister of Culture. Will he also determine according to the most vulgar and primitive verses of Emir or No Custurica, I don't know what his name is, and his orchestra, which not only celebrates and praises one of the war crimes indictees, but insults all others who have no sympathy for this war crimes indictee in The Hague tribunal, all in the form of some kind of artistic and cultural creation? I see the Ministry of Culture approves of some great money for some of his projects, so will according to this most vulgar primitive, who listen and watch children, in some way the Minister of Culture and Government will determine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18708	Thank you. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that, according to the new Rules of Procedure, we have an obligation, but also the right to see each other once a month and speak directly and give answers to various questions. I'm going to try to answer these questions that have been asked, noting that I may not be familiar with everything and that I don't know all the answers and I'm going to remind you that I don't know. As for the first issue and 1,000 euros per citizen, it was a pre-election promise and, in line with that pre-election promise, a law has been defined that allows the participation of the population in the distribution of free actions. After that, as you know, there has been an economic crisis and a major downturn on the one hand. On the other hand, the issue of sharing the action was about privatising concrete businesses. I think there's been a lot of words about it in the press, and it's been discussed and I don't think it's possible at this point to assess how the value of the company's actions, some of which are sold and some aren't, so in the assessment of this, you have to wait for a certain time and see what's going to happen. What I can say on behalf of the government is that the government, in accordance with those promises, has passed a certain law. According to that law, registration was made. So all those actions that were administrative and the government had to do, she did. As for the market and its value, it's something we'll wait to see what happens. On these other two questions, unfortunately, I have no answers, and the Minister of Sports is not here. I believe that the Red Star is some brand of ours and that, of course, the events that take place there are not events with which anyone in this country can be satisfied, but I will take advantage of the possibility given by the Rules of Procedure, which is to inform you of the concrete measures in writing. The same goes for the scriptures of Emir Kusturica, which, I must admit, I didn't even get a chance to hear and I don't know what it was about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18710	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Batic wants a comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18711	First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Prime Minister for his presence and his desire to try to answer, with my dissatisfaction with the answer, especially the first question. People were promised 1,000 euros on behalf of free actions. You yourself said it was promised in the election campaign. Turns out that folk "promise of crazy joy." That's why there's something that's the elemental principles of democracy, which is responsibility and exchangeability. This, of course, does not apply to Prime Minister Cvetkovic, but to Minister for Economy and Regional Development. He, seeking to gain cheap political points, promised in a pre-election campaign that it would be so, to surprise Serbia's citizens after the registration was made. The man didn't know how many adult citizens Serbia had, he only cheated for a million. Then he tried to explain here once that it was one of the reasons. Another reason. So if all Serbia's economy was sold, five billion euros could not be provided and all that was sold to the citizens. So it was known in advance that it was a colorful lie, that it was a sweet fraud, a smoke screen, that it was a manipulation of citizens, manipulation of their political will, their electoral right. It is something that must not be done and therefore, of course, and not only because of it, but also because of the "Fiyats" and who knows what, Mladjan Dinkic should have long resigned, that there is political morality in this country and that these two basic principles of democracy, accountability and exchangeability are respected. If I understand your answer to the second question correctly, the government will do something about the preservation and resolution of a national brand called the Red Star. I repeat, it's no longer a story of administration, of players, it's something that's part of national identity and that's by nature a state issue. If that answer is both optimistic and optimistic, I thank you for that. It would be good for you to read these verses by Emir Kusturica and what he tells citizens with his orchestra "No Smoking" for those who do not like Radovan Karadzic. Most recent and vulgar, as if it motivated the Minister of Culture to provide him with some budget funds for some of his projects. Now, I wouldn't talk about the hills he got from the previous "gifting" government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18712	President Cvetkovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18713	In order to clarify and understand well, I have said, when it comes to the Red Star, that I feel it as our brand and that there is no one who is satisfied with what is happening. I also said that we would give a written answer about what is being done, given that my resolute minister, unfortunately, is not present here. So I wouldn't want this to be interpreted as if the government had taken over any financial obligations or anything. We'll see what we can do for that. This was necessary to say for the sake of clarification, and otherwise, I am totally standing at the point of view that "Red Star" is indeed a brand of this country, even a brand of those great states, and we cannot be indifferent and satisfied with the events in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18714	Thank you, Mr. President. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18715	Madam President, gentlemen and ladies of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will raise one question from the area of pension-involvement insurance. A considerable number of Albanians from Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje in a multi-year period cannot make a pension if they have worked in Kosovo for a certain period. It is interesting that interested parties who submit complete pension rights requirements do not receive written answers on the reasons for prolonging the adoption of a pension solution, but are told orally that the Republic Fund for PIO does not have original documentation from the PIO area for Kosovo's territory. Probably the most dramatic case is with Shaban Kelmendi, who, as a displaced person, lives in Novi Pazar, has ID number 181511, issued by the New Pazar MUP, who used an age pension of 8.1.1993 and, after the war events in October 1999, submitted a request for the establishment of a pension payment to the Republic Fund for PIO and his pension was paid to him in the course of 2000. However, his pension payment was suspended during that year, so that the suspension of pension payments would be announced by a resolution of the Republic Fund for PIO employees since 8.11.2004, with a reason that the Republic Fund does not have the documentation on the exercise of pension rights, since the original documentation is in Kosovo. At the time of the appeal of Saban Kelmendi, the District Court in Novi Pazar, in a retrial, has reached a verdict repealing the resolution of the Republic Fund for PIO employees. In that judgment, the Court points out that the prosecutor uncontestedly acquired this right by a legal solution of the Republic Fund PIO, which was valid at the time when it was issued, and the defendant's body, in this case the Republic Fund for PIO, misrepresented pension payments to the prosecutor. However, at the request of the Republic Fund, the Supreme Court reached a verdict that abolished the ruling of the District Court in Novi Pazar, for only formal and not essential reasons. The reason is that there was no right to retrial. There was no answer at all to the question of whether a man who worked 35 and a change of years and got a pension... (President: Mr. Halimi, speak for more than three minutes, so I would ask you to bring the matter to an end. "As I have another question, I use time... (President: Nevertheless, you have the right to a total of three minutes. ) So, in this case, the basic question is – what will Minister Ljajic do to break this discriminatory practice and not only to Mr Kelmendi, but to all employees who meet the legal conditions for retirement, do not create these current obstacles, which are illegal? (President:Thank you. ( Second question...)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18716	You can't now. You only had three minutes. You have not carefully obeyed the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that regulate time. In the next round you will, but there are already twenty reported, possibly a turn again, if there is time. Minister Rasim Ljajic has a word. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18717	Unfortunately, this is not a lonely case and is not strictly tied to southern Serbia, any municipality or ethnicity of any pension user. That is certainly not for you to be comforted. Many citizens have similar objections, related to the length of the procedure at the PIO Fund, and especially to the possibility of connecting the work experience, especially if it is done with the republics of the former Yugoslavia or if it is done with those who have achieved part of the internship in Kosovo. As regards a specific case, I can provide you with all relevant information on Shaban Kelmendi over the next week and the possibility of solving this problem if there is a legal basis for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18718	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Would you like a comment? Here, you have five minutes to comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18719	This comment is brief. A man was born in 1935. Waiting for this problem to be solved, his wife died. Should he die too to exercise basic human rights? I think there are also urgent, very urgent and problems for more workers who have reached retirement time in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji, and because the year, two, three worked in Kosovo, they cannot exercise their right to retire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18720	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Siniša Stamenkovic. I'm just asking you to sign up by electronic means, so I can give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18721	Ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow ministers, in 1990, the Serbian Parliament passed a regulation that compensated for the damage caused by the slow water caused by the construction of the Đerdap I and II hydropower plants, by raising the levels of groundwater, swimming and changing the natural water regime, land damage, etc. The special decision of the Assembly then provides for compensation for the use of goods of special interest belonging to municipalities in the area of slowdowns created by the construction of hydropower plants I and II. The fee was allocated from the price of kilowatt-hours produced on the generator in all hydropower plants. From these funds, municipalities in the blue area have solved problems caused by swimming - land transfer, devastation, road collapse, immersion and other municipal problems. Due to frequent changes in water levels in accumulations caused by the water potential exploitation regime for the production of hydroelectric energy in power plants, the damage is increasing every year. Citizens are seeking compensation from municipalities, and the government has abolished these funds with its decision and has left a large number of inhabitants on the coast of hydropower plants without compensation. The amount of compensation from the Djerdap hydropower plant would only amount to over 150 million dinars for the Kladovo municipality this year. How will the Serbian government damage coastal citizens, to remind them, in the municipalities of Kladovo, Negotin, Majdanpek, Golubac, Pogorec, Smederevo, Kovin, Belgrade and Novi Sad? Secondly, when will the EPS Public Enterprise carry out all remaining obligations to compensate for damages in the Danube coast resulting from the relocation of settlements and people? The third question, when will the public undertaking EPS make compensation for economic damage under the Law on the permanent resolution of citizens' existence from the threatened area of the Danube resistance? The fourth question is for the Minister of Health – when will the Ministry of Health include the treatment of about 250,000 people suffering from hepatitis A, B or C in compulsory health insurance and provide treatment for a pegasus or kopegus system that costs up to 20,000 euros? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18722	Thank you. Which one of the ministers wants to answer? Would you like some, Mr. Cvetkovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18723	Just for a little while, about these three energy issues. The Minister of Energy, unfortunately, is not here, so the questions will be passed on to him and he will give you an answer. He's got a whole file on it. I was familiar with these issues in the conversation right in Kladov, when they complained because the rent was lifted, but there are data about it and you'll get an answer. As far as the last question is concerned, I'd like to ask the Minister of Health to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18724	Thank you. I ask Mr. Tomic, Minister of Health, to sign up by electronic means, so I can give him my word. He didn't get the card.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18725	Thank you for asking, but hepatitis A, B and C are three different liver inflammation diseases resulting from viral function. Hepatitis A is a disease of dirty hands and in therapy, practically, does not use the medicine mentioned by the gentleman. As for hepatitis B and C, interferon alfa is a medicine that is available as the first line of treatment. In half of the patients there are answers, and in the other half, when it is missing, there are very precisely regulated criteria when this more expensive interferon is used for C hepatitis. So there must be a biopsy and histological analysis, an interpretation of the findings in one place, and then the commission makes a decision on the treatment of this patient who did not develop fibrosis. If 250,000 citizens were treated uncritically by, let's say, this medicine to everyone, if that number, though, and when there is a smaller number, if there were no such restrictions, then all the money that exists annually in health insurance would be spent on one single disease. As for B hepatitis, Serbia has had a mandatory vaccine against B hepatitis since 2004 for each newborn baby and at the age of 12. The plan, professionally and politically supported, is that for 12 years from the beginning, means by 2016, practically new generations have no problems with B hepatitis, which is important because one third of the patients are at risk of getting liver cancer in progress. So it would be good, of course, if the indications for using more expensive drugs, both this and some others, spread much faster and much more. Once we're more economically powerful and the Health Insurance Fund has more money, then they'll be able to be less restrictive.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18726	I thank Mr. Milosavljevic. The word again has Mr. Sinisa Stamenkovic, the comment works. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18727	Mr. Minister, my question, which I asked about treatment and therapy for such a large number of patients, is that you try as a doctor, and as a man, and as a minister, not to allow a group of A and a group of B patients when it comes to this therapy. Do everything possible to keep everyone in an even position and do everything possible to keep waiting lists in certain treatments that should be given, including in this system, being deployed so that we do not create citizens of two rows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18728	Thank you. Mr. Milosavljevic has a word. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18729	I have to answer that, of course, there are no citizens of the first and second order, but on the contrary, what I've said is proof that citizens are treated equally. Copegus gets those who need it for medical reasons. Those who have a certain form of C hepatitis histologically, are treated on equal terms, whoever it is. I'll prepare you a written report on how to conduct therapy with this drug back three years, so you'll see that I was telling the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18730	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. I'm just asking you to sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18731	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mrs. Ministers, fellow Members of the People, honourable citizens of Serbia, I will try to ask three questions in these three minutes. The first question is for Mr. Prime Minister. How far did the negotiations come about reducing your cabinet? I do not want to interpret and explain why it is important for the citizens of Serbia. They are forced to save the measures you bring. Thousands of people will be fired from work, so it would be your cabinet, your own example, shows that the government is also ready to save. Especially when we see you in a number like this, it's quite enough for a good government, if he wants to work. Question number two is for Mr Milosavljevic, Minister of Health, and this Mexican flu. What's going on right now? Mr. Minister, I am giving you the opportunity to answer both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia, since I asked this question on Tuesday, and then, according to the World Health Organization, the level of danger was three, today it was five. I would not like to ask awkward questions, most sincerely I want an answer from you – how much is our country and our health system ready at this point? The third question is for the Prime Minister, and I would have asked him if he were present. Yesterday, we were all witnessing a press conference for an NGO, which in about a month or so, I don't know how many days has the Pride Parade in Belgrade announced. Since your government, or one of your ministries, has so far funded these and similar organizations, I have a question for you – will the Government of the Republic of Serbia finance the Pride Parade? Will you, the Minister of Culture and any other ministers participate in that parade? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18732	Thank you. The word is Mr. Cvetkovic, Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18733	Ladies and gentlemen, I will answer the first question and make a brief comment on the third, and I will give my colleague Milosavljevic the word on the second question, which I find extremely significant. As for the issue of the number of cabinets and everything that has been said in public, I would first like to say that the number of ministers present here is some sort of demonstration as much as the Government respects the Parliament and this home, and it is not the basis to say that there are many and that some conclusions are drawn. The reduction in the Cabins is not about any negotiations, but about the reduction of the Cabins is one regular issue under the coalition, with none of what is read in the papers (one will, the other won't). It's just that his best functionality is being considered. In the assessment of the size of the Cabinette, there was a story that he was big, but I have to say he's not that much bigger than some previous cabinet. The previous cabinet had 25 members, and this one is 27. So the issue of reducing the cabinet slowly becomes more political than an economic problem. Of course, if coalition partners come to the conclusion that it is more efficient and better working with a reduced cabinet, that will happen. For now, I would not say that this is about any negotiations, but more about considering various ideas, including this idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18734	Thank you. The word has the Minister of Health Tomica Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18735	Thank you very much. I thank Mr Markicević for asking. As you know, last night and night, the World Health Organization warned the member states that we are at a stage of five dangers of the outbreak of the pandemic. It's a flu virus that's been mutated and changed and that the human species first encounters. Phase five means that there's been a transfer from sick to a healthy man, not only in one country, Mexico, but in another country in the same region, to the United States. It's a criterion by the World Health Organization classification that brings us really into danger of pandemics. The pandemic would be the sixth stage, which means that in a short time, a large number of people around the planet would suffer, which would be a serious danger. Epidemiologically, that danger is now closer than ever before. As far as the current situation is concerned, today, in European countries, Austria has one confirmed case of disease, Germany three, Spain 10, Great Britain five, a total of 19. Of the other countries, 19 confirmed cases of disease in Canada, two in Costa Rica, two in Israel, 26 in Mexico (with seven deaths), 14 in New Zealand, one in Peru, and 91 in America (with one fatal outcome), 155 in total. At the end of 2005, we adopted a national plan for action before and during a possible pandemic at the Serbian government, and on the basis of the plan, a special working group dealing with this problem is in constant session. During 2006 and 2007, about 2m euros were invested in the equipment of infectious clinics, isolaters and infectious wards in general hospitals. Cars were purchased, among other things, for the epidemiological teams of the institute. A network has been created that electronic communication between the institutions is possible. Antibiotic stockpiles were purchased in stock reserves and infuzione fluids. A lower level of antivirus drug reserves was purchased (at that time there was only one producer), a minimum quantity recommendation was a total of 1% of the general population. At this point, 85% of the stock has until 2011 and 15% has until November 2009. We, after the first data last weekend, practically started acting as a health system and as a state, I think, step forward. Last night, therefore, the fifth phase was declared and Margaret Chen called on the governments of the member states to implement the pandemic plans. We've been applying it for a few days. There is increased sanitary surveillance at the border, lyphlets are printed, notices on arrival and departure to the country. Today, at 11.00 p.m., a lady aged 71 with clinical suspicion was admitted at the Vojvodina Clinical Center in Novi Sad. It's the first case of suspected Mexican flu. By the end of today, by tonight, the National Laboratory on Torlak will have set up a preliminary diagnosis of confirmation or exclusion. In the further procedure, the final confirmation will be possible in one of the nine reference laboratories of the World Health Organization, for us the closest in London. We will, after the budget rebalances you voted last night, be in a position to increase the supply of the drugs triple. That's what we've been having conversations about. The cure doesn't solve the problem itself. I'd like to try to tell you plastically how serious it is when a pandemic happens, we now have a threat. If all the savings went to the bank and asked for a savings stake in the same day, at the same time, that bank would go bankrupt. If 20% of the population of a society suffers and needs at one point in the health system, then the system is in serious trouble. So, as a society and a state, we're not only preparing ourselves, but we're taking it seriously. The past year has been a practical exercise of these procedures, and today the government has adopted the composition of the Co-ordination Body (which consists of 13 ministers, and the Head of the Health Minister), whose task is to provide the highest level of support for current and potential interventions, activate procedures for the acquisition of additional resources, deployment of operational teams, provide co-operation among ministries, exchange of information and co-ordination with neighbouring countries, as well as identify the need for international assistance. I apologize for being so long, but I must say that today the World Health Organization Commission has informed the Minister of Health that the Torlak Institute has received a certificate for the preservation and distribution of vaccines, which is one of the six certifications allocated in the last three years of 60 applications, which is important, and that a donation of $1200,000 has been allocated to support the acceleration of the Torlak training procedure, which will start the trial production in the last quarter of this year, because then the equipment is installed until September, so that next year it will be in a situation, I hope, one of the respectable producers. As regards travel, given that there have been different comments, there is an international legal document called the International Health Regulation, adopted in 2005, which says Member States do not have the right to introduce restrictions on human trafficking and goods and, if introduced for more than 24 hours, it must be scientifically based and justified in front of UN authorities. So this is a global problem and we need to be part of the global effort, and we need to do as much locally as possible. I can only tell you, on behalf of the Co-ordination Body, and the Ministry of Health and Government, that, as MPs, you will be notified in extreme detail, as well as citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18736	I thank Minister Milosavljevic. I would like to inform you that the secretary of the National Assembly has informed you that they have been prevented from attending this session by the following members of the government: Mr Jovan Krkobbic, Minister Petar Skundric, Minister Bogoljub Šijakovic, Minister Vuk Jeremic, Minister Dragan Sutanovac, Minister Sasa Dragin, Minister Snezana Samardzic-Markovic, Minister Goran Bogdanovic and Minister Jasna Matic. National MP Miroslav Markicevic wants to comment. Here you go, Mr. Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18737	Mr. Prime Minister, I really forgot to do it at the beginning, so I want to say now that for all the praise that you and your cabinet have come here in this number to respect the MPs and citizens of Serbia. What I said was that your cabinet should have fewer ministers is of the best intention, well-intentioned, so that this cabinet would be more effective and not experience blackmails like, say, these days, experienced from a parliamentary group from Vojvodina. I draw attention to both you and all ministers not to live badly in Vojvodina alone. You live badly in southern Serbia, in western Serbia and in Šumadia. And who gave the right to participate in some six-and-a-half billion discussions that we haven't seen in budget rebalancing these days? Where'd that money come from? Is it true that this money will be placed in Vojvodina, especially in municipalities with the majority Hungarian life? I believe that the rest of Serbia, especially those from underdeveloped parts, from southern Serbia, from central Serbia, from western Serbia and the Forest, would like to hear the answer to this question. The other question, maybe a little funny, I didn't ask by accident. I am particularly pleased that none of you will participate in this Pride Parade, but I must remind you that the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Minority and Human Rights at Minister Ciplic, Mr Karadzic, has made that public on the media on direct show. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18738	Thank you. The word is Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18739	I also express my satisfaction with the presence of members of the government and Mr. Prime Minister. But, Mr. Cvetkovic, if this is an act of respect for this assembly, then this half-empty hall is some indication of what the Assembly thinks of the executive authority that has been campaigning against this assembly for months. The president of your party, Mr Tadic, also joined, with a proposal to reduce the number of MPs. And we from the LDP, remember, Mrs Dragutinovic, spoke as early as December -- reduce the number of ministries, because it is a symbolic indicator that the state is saving. But you said it was a political measure. It may be, but political measures cannot remove the consequences of the crisis, nor can the country get out of recession. Money is money and people won't have it, whether someone's gonna push him tomorrow to change the Constitution or find Draža's grave. The money is at stake and people won't have any more money and we have a new constitution. And we want him, anyway, because we were against this. But in the context of those measures that you proposed, which were adopted yesterday, I would like to ask a question – when will the anti-monopolitan law be passed, Mr Cvetkovic? Monopolies in this country are a thing that reduces living standards. You know, and a hundred times it's been said that food and other goods prices here more than abroad, even domestic products are cheaper in Montenegro, Hemofarm medicines are cheaper in Montenegro five to seven times, not to mention other things. I say this especially in light of the fact that the competent Minister Milosavljevic has done a study on trade and trade development in which 800 sides of the monopoly are mentioned only halfway, so somehow it seems to me to be your government's relationship to monopolies. I'm saying this in the context of the measures you're proposing, which, in fact, go to the expense of those big ones who took goods from suppliers, sold, money who knows where they spent, maybe in Ljubljana, the suppliers didn't pay, and suppliers now have a problem. These suppliers -- it's production, and only the real sector can get this country out of the crisis. We think it's better to keep 20 companies that produce than one that trades, because the same number of people in each other does. I have a question for Mr. Markovic about that. If you have already started a partial change in the political system, and not by consensus, but by the will of the majority (you say so; most here will adopt whatever you suggest, and I see that the president of your party is behind it), why don't you in the package propose a law on party financing? Because what we're attending, this farce with lists of companies that are reportedly funded by some major parties, then calls for tycoons, which are certainly active in the campaign, but not in the regular financing of the party, somehow seems to be a distraction from the real source of party financing, and these are public enterprises, and we know who manages public enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18740	Thank you. Who wants to answer? Here you are, Mr. Minister Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18741	Thank you. Dear Mr. People's MP, thank you for this issue of competition law, and thank you for reading the Strategy for the Development of Trade of Serbia, a document we've worked on for many years. The document has been finalised for the past few months and is the basis by which we will implement both measures and policies to ensure that Serbia's trade is one of Serbia's engines of economic development and Serbia's accession to European integration. It is true, the Strategy has almost 800 pages, you have read, but perhaps not most precisely, since not halfway, but in several parts of the Strategy mention the measures of anti-monopolic policy, which directly, which indirectly, but what is the essence of your question, here, I will answer you. The government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Ministry of Trade and Services, adopted a draft law on the protection of competition just over two months ago. I am informed that in the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the law should be on the agenda, along with two other laws from the section of the Ministry of Trade and Services - these are the law on electronic trade and the law on general product safety. It's true it's so-called. The anti-monopoly, or competition law, is one of the most important laws for the overall functioning of Serbia's economy, for the competitiveness of our economy, for the attractiveness of our country to attract investment, not only in the sector of trade and services, but also in the real sector of the economy. For these very reasons, we have decided not to amend and supplement the current law that was passed in 2005, but to draft a new law, which will respect, above all, the most European standards in the field of competition protection, but also domestic reality. What we have received through more than three months of public debates and discussions is a large number of concrete suggestions, both by businessmen, and by the scientific and professional public, and a large number of businesses, of course also MPs who have had the opportunity to get acquainted with the law and the desire to give their opinion on the law. I expect that we will have a correct debate and during the session of Parliament at which the law will be discussed, of course with a wish, if any other good initiative arrives how to improve the law, to adopt it and install it, and to get not only a new law, but a lasting, sustainable and applicable law. It is precisely the key objectives that we were led to do this law to strengthen the Commission for the Protection of Competition, as a regulatory body that should deal with the issue of preserving competition and market freedom in our country, to make it operational, to give it the opportunity to directly sanction infringements of competition. We have also made certain amendments to the current law with the aim of, above all, the trade courts, the most called judicial institutions for the area of economy and economy, to be included as competent for these issues and I believe that we will remove concerns, problems and I would say inoperability in the previous period that relate to the implementation of the Competition Protection Act and the Commission's work on protecting competition by a new law. We fully comply with European standards with this law. It's one of the laws to be expected. It is the law, in addition to the state aid law, which is one of the conditions at this stage of accession to get a positive assessment of the economy and the construction of a free market. I am convinced that this law will be on the Parliament's agenda for the next two or three weeks, that it will be adopted and that law enforcement will, above all, bring about a improvement in this field, but also that it will allow the Commission's Competition Protection Commission to find the most professional and competent people, of course specialists for certain segments, to make the work of the Commission as high as possible. What is another newspaper compared to the existing law is that members of the Competition Protection Commission will be elected through a public competition. It's about the law. As for comments or issues, however, related to prices and cost of life in Serbia, there is a price of products lower in Serbia compared to the environment, there are also those that are higher than in countries in the environment, but also from numerous talks with companies, producers who have their own price policies, which is precisely why they sell products in Montenegro, for example, at lower prices compared to prices in Serbia, or in Republika Srpska, or in another country in the environment, the answer is that it is part of their business policy, that they are fighting for the market during certain periods of the year, struggling with stronger competition, that both tax and customs burdens in countries for certain products are different, that there are in some countries in the environment a different form of protectionism of certain products and that it is simply so in all countries. But what I can tell you as Minister of Trade, which is partly responsible for... (President: Mr. Minister, the usual answer is five minutes. I thank you. (President: Bring the end. I broke up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18742	I mean, business. Here, MPs help me, suggest I say it's a business rule, not just a common practice. Mr. Milan Markovic has a word. Here you go. Will you listen to the minister first? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18743	I don't think there's a dilemma in this room or in our public that we need a reform of our political system. The key, the backbone of this reform, is, above all, electoral laws. That's what the public is interested in, but I think they should be interested, of course, and political parties. Like any reform, this reform has its beginning, its duration and some natural end. The reform we are planning in the government provides for the adoption of a larger number of laws. The first law on political parties, then the law on the electoral list, the law on the state electoral commission, the law on the election of committees, the law on the election of MPs, the law on the election of the President of the Republic and, of course, no doubt and dilemma, the new law on the financing of political parties. So the reform is comprehensive and we intend to implement this reform during the term of office of this government. As for the width of the consensus, unfortunately, we didn't even have it for the adoption of the Constitution, so it's hard to expect a consensus on such issues, when the general opposition has the view that the government should provide a majority for each new law. In my opinion, it's perfectly legitimate, the opposition has the right to such an attitude, so we will neither try nor insist on getting such a broad consensus. But, as you know, I've been to your party, I've also been to the DSS, I've spoken to representatives of all opposition parties, because I think every party should be familiar with the elements of the reform that we plan as a government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18744	Thank you. Mr. Ostojić has a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18745	Mr. Milosavlevich, you didn't understand. I was just afraid that the anti-monopoly law would be on the verge of this strategy that I still say is not paying any attention to the monopolies. What's a monopoly? It's not just what you measured, so a small shop and a big supermarket count as one facility. Monopoly is when a supplier says - I'm not gonna pay you for 120, but 180 days, so he takes the money abroad, so this one can no longer restore the chain of production, and he can't sue, and he has to sign it, because if he falls out of that chain, he can put the key in the lock. I'm talking about a production that's been compromised by a monopoliest. And, Mr. Markovic, the economic monopolies, the media that exist in this country, naturally need to turn into monopolies and politics. When you wrote the Constitution with your partners Kostunica, Seselj and Tom Nikolic two and a half years ago, you were in favor of a proportional system. What happened in these two and a half years and suddenly you become advocates of the majority system, slowly, but surely? Well, there was a break-up at the time of the strongest party, so now that you think you're the strongest, then let's take the chance faster. It's not responsible behavior that will bring good to this country and, when I talk about money, I mean those monopolies. We have suggested to you, Mr Cvetkovic, one measure - I would like to hear from your mouth whether you have seriously considered this - that at this time of liquidity crisis, at a time when there is no liquidity crisis anymore, but, after all, the recession begins, look at the growth rates of industrial production, etc. Recession means a smaller volume of economic activity. It means less work, it means no work. What did you have to do with these measures as a priority? That's not clear. That's why we kept saying that measures are needed to help the fallen economy maintain its level of activity. So, among other things, we suggested that at least at this time you go to pay the VAT for the paid realisation, not the invoiced one. I know this would lead to tax revenues erosion, but it would have led you to austerity measures, including maybe a reduction in the number of the ministry, as we suggested the other day to 12. On the other hand, look what's going on. The state charges its money mercilessly and brutally using force, I'm talking about VAT, taxes, but it doesn't pay its debts. So Mr. Mrkonjic, there it happens that tolls, which are owed a lot of money, go into bankruptcy even though they may be balancedly positive, but they can't pay their suppliers or workers for what the state owes them. That's what this is about. That's what we tried to do, some suggestions to at least give you an idea. Now we don't have 15 people who can calculate all the data and balances, nor can we measure all the effects, but we haven't heard in the exposé that they're thinking in that direction. If he can't do that, then why didn't he try to reduce the personal income burden, if it's a priority to preserve jobs? You can't keep jobs by saying - don't fire in a crisis, cut profits, etc. Because some people have to fire 'cause they can't sell goods or services. It's just, that's the point. I'm sorry the foreign minister isn't here to ask him how much it will cost four consulates 100km away from each other in little Montenegro. According to some budgets, the average consulate in the West costs about 300,000 euros. If it costs, say, 200 in Montenegro, it's almost a million euros. Perhaps at this savings and expensiveness it is not much, it may say Mrs Dragutinovic, but I would very much like to hear, Mr Cvetkovic, political reasons for diplomatic attempts (I do not know whether Montenegro will agree with it) without precedents to open such a steam arch and to open four consulates in such a small country. And four consulates, to remind you, we have neither in the United States nor in Russia -- fortunately. So, a question for you, Mrs Dragutinović - what about that NIS profit that the Russians wiped out and turned into a win? It's the same loss of this budget, which is why people have to, middle class has to pay. Not to mention the satellite, not to talk about these consulates right now... There's a lot of arches...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18746	It's been five minutes. You used the right to ask questions. It's for the second round. Since there is some uncertainty as to how MPs can speak after the ministers, in Article 202. The Rules of Procedure say that, following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment for a maximum period of five minutes on the answer to the question or to ask an additional question, and upon receipt of a reply to the additional question, the MP has the right to declare the answer for a maximum of five minutes. Ministers Mrkonjic, Markovic and Milosavljevic want to give short answers. The word is Mr. Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18747	It's an honor and a pleasure to see familiar faces again from this place. I'll tell you right now, you chose me, and you have my resignation today, whenever you want. No toll company will go bankrupt while I'm a minister. The voices from the bench: "Au." I ask my colleagues to refrain from commenting. Mr. Ostojic is probably referring to "Intermost" (and it's probably some dance, we'll see what it is) "Vincija", a large world company, which has already made other moves today. But these 320 people, who still have good jobs in this Serbia, will not be out of a job. I will personally run these companies if the current directors leave, and they won't. So, as far as public enterprises are concerned, I know what the subject is, there are a lot of them in my portfolio, so to speak. I welcome Comrade Velya, who arrived in the meantime, were in his vault. So far, I have not noticed, of course, it is impossible in such large systems as "The Railway" and "The Ways of Serbia", that there have been any machinations related to spending funds on party financing. I may still be a relatively young minister, so I am unable to grasp all these ends, but the Serbian government has had the strength to secure money and pay the 320m-euro debt to the passengers, and it will be completed this week. Hence, the road economy will certainly not be under bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18748	Thank you. The word is Mr. Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18749	Thank you. Just to make two more brief comments to the esteemed Mr. Ostojic on the Strategy for the Development of Trade of the Republic of Serbia. The team that worked the Strategy is indeed, and I can proudly say, the most respectable in Serbia, led by Professor Stip Lovret, who is head of the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, and two foreign consultants are Mr. John Dawson, who is the largest authority for trade and market in the EU and Mr. Barry Bergman, who is the same in the United States. So, as far as the Strategy is concerned, I am proud to point out that it is the best quality, most powerful and best possible that could be done. Among other things, it also defines half of the sites you mention regarding anti-monopolis policy, defined and the obligations of local self-government to define locations for the construction of new shopping centres and to place these locations on public bids, and then to stimulate trade and domestic and foreign investors to invest regionally, the establishment of a shopping development centre, which should also help develop trade and Serbia's market better and much more. And you're welcome whenever we talk about the Strategy and all these laws we're making.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18750	Thank you. Mr. Milan Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18751	Mr. Ostojić probably knows that because we've talked about it more than once, but for the public's sake, I want to say that the system we stand for is proportional. I don't know how the idea of a majority electoral system comes from. I'm surprised you repeat so many times: majority, majority, majority... And it's a personalized proportional system -- which has five percent, crosses the censorship. Our desire is to give citizens the opportunity to see who they vote for when they vote and that citizens through this reform come to this knowledge, if they already finance political processes, which is normal in every European society, then at least to know who they finance and why they finance some political process. These doubts that exist now, the fact that we have more parties in parliament that have been paid out of the budget than we have in the elections, all of this is well-delegitized by our political system. We don't need that. We need greater confidence in politics, political institutions, political processes, and that is the purpose of changing our electoral legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18752	Thank you. (National MP Zoran Ostojic throws out of place. You've finished your comment, you can't do it anymore. You don't have twice the right to five minutes, just once. You have the opportunity to speak in the second round, to give opportunity to all MPs who have signed up to at least one question at a time. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18753	Mr President, unlike other MPs, I do not share the enthusiasm that you have come as much as it can to fit into one normally foreseen space for ministers (all beyond that is a little bit and abnormal) and I would rather have you present in such a composition a debate on the budget, rather than today with these harmless and meaningless parliamentary issues. I'm so sorry they gave you that sour water. We work here sometimes for 15 hours, so no one gives us anything. They've taken our journals off yet, and they're willing to take our wages off. And as soon as you show up, they'll give you water right away. You see, maybe they could give you something sweet, too, so you don't drop sugar. Mr. President, Serbian President Boris Tadic resented the assembly yesterday if there were too many MPs, he announced an amendment to the constitution to bring the number of MPs down to about 150 and justified it by the fact that there are too many small political parties in the assembly. In this way, he must have announced some kind of violation of everyone's right to choose and be elected and to suppress any electoral list that achieves censorship to enter parliament, as the president will determine which one is small and which one is large. But that is why I remind you that on his list of eight parties has entered parliament, and that there are 14 political parties in the government he has given his mandate, which you have formed. I ask you a question – did the Government consider changing the Constitution? Does the Government know that the arrangement of power, as one head, of a section of the Constitution, is being resolved in the Assembly and confirmed in a referendum? With 126 MPs, as much as he supports you here, are you really willing to put yourself at risk of changing the Constitution, which at least takes a two-thirds majority here, or does the President of the Republic suggest what he's going to do to you for the next period? I'd really like to know, I'd be really happy if you said no, the government doesn't know anything about it. Then I would prove my thesis that both the government and Serbia are governed by only the President of the Republic. Since I notice that the ministers and MPs from G17 are quarantined and that they are not here today in this room, I will ask you. Several outbursts and rough interferences in other branches of government were carried by Minister Dinkic. First of all, Mr. Mrkonjic reiterated it, which doesn't concern me because our friend, our friend Mrka, likes to say and what he doesn't mean, and he announced that he won't let companies go bankrupt while he's a minister, so I warn him that it's not his right or his obligation or his duty. Companies are going bankrupt (President: Bring the question to the end, it has been three minutes. ) when conditions for bankruptcy are obtained. I wonder if you will do something against the minister who wrote to the court in an attempt to prevent the bankruptcy of the company "dragon", which his friend Goran Novakovic is interested in. He spoke to the public and urged prosecutors to launch an investigation or he will take all MPs out of the assembly room and ask for the removal of all prosecutors in Serbia. I hear he's...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18754	Thank you for asking. You've been talking for four minutes. Mr. Cvetkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18755	As far as the first question is concerned, I would like to say that the Constitution is the highest legal act of a country, as you know, and that it far exceeds the capacity of a government. So, in its preparation, political parties that make up the government must be included primarily, and then wider, given the way in which the Constitution is being adopted. If you want me to give you a formal answer to the question of whether the Government has discussed the issue of changing the Constitution at its sessions, the answer is – no, and if you want me to give you an answer to the question whether it is on the table within the framework of the overall reforms, where the story is about everything, the answer is yes. But the whole thing is very serious, which doesn't intersect over the knee. We have a whole series of different ideas here. Some of them had a chance to hear, and there are other ideas. In any case, nothing that goes in that direction will be done in a hidden way, nor as any big surprise for the working people who, in the end line, have to confirm it or not. When it comes to the second question, I didn't fully understand which minister it was, who was giving what, etc., so I would ask you to explain this second question as part of your supplemental comment, so that I could answer it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18756	Thank you. Mr. Nikolic, come in. The clarifications are to say - either you will have a comment, or an additional question. You can use the right to one of those two possibilities and it takes five minutes. So the lawyers interpret Article 202. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18757	I will have the right, as an MP, to do what my conscience tells me to do within five minutes, and do not, please, warn me in advance. Whoever gives me advice I didn't ask for seems to be threatening me. When I ask you for advice on what to do as an MP, feel free to give it to me, but if I don't ask you, don't threaten me, please. Mr Cvetkovic, I warn you of a letter from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development sent to the Trade Court in Belgrade, in which the minister says - I am speaking to you to prevent bankruptcy proceedings. The addition to this is that the minister was convicted of the defamation (or as it is in the sentence, I would have to see the verdicts) against Verica Barac, who sued him for the lies he made at the press conference, so I'm interested in what it looks like when you sit in the government with the vice president, or the minister who was convicted of a crime. Just to supplement what I didn't get, I ask the interior minister if he is (there) – are you ready, Mr. Minister, to propose a law that would protect police officers and every attack against them really drastically punish them, in order to stop this pursuit of police all over Serbia's cities? It seems to me that difficult times are coming, in which police will carry out difficult tasks, and there will be more and more crime, both the worst and the most organized. Now I'm telling you in advance, if you are willing to propose such a law to the National Assembly, you will have the support of the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia's SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18758	Thank you. The word has a prime minister, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18759	Now, after the supplement, I understood what the second question was and my answer is next. Two State Secretarys were connected to that memo, one from the Ministry of Economy, and the other... That's not it? Then I don't know the answer. I'll have to ask around. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18760	Thank you. The word is Mr. Ivica Dacic. Just register, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18761	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr Nikolic, there have certainly been several attacks in recent months on authorized officials, or members of the police and the MUP. Unfortunately, some of them were fatal. One officer lost his life, and as you know, last night an unknown face shot Officer Biorco from the New Market was shot in the back. Just before I came from Kragujevac, I visited a wounded officer who is currently in stable condition, and he's not at risk of life. I absolutely agree with you in this proposal, with the fact that I have to say it's not the Ministry of the Interior's portfolio, it's the Ministry of Justice. Since this matter is regulated by the Criminal Code, I absolutely agree, and I advocate that penalties be tightened for assaulting authorized officials. I think it's very important. I absolutely agree with all the criticisms and words that came out in public. Every cop has to act in accordance with his legal powers. I advocate absolutely, and in practice I apply it, that the most severe punishment is all examples of abuse and over-rule of official powers, but on the other hand, every attack on an authorised official, in this case police and the MUP, in some ways represents one of the most serious crimes, and in many countries in the world it is just as regulated. Given that nearly a thousand police officers have lost their lives on their official tasks since 1992 (not only in the war, during the bombing, etc., but also in performing day-to-day police duties), I think it is necessary not only to legally define stricter sanctions, but also to define through court practice that the sanctions imposed by courts are not at least at some minimum provided by law. In some environments, like when I visited a police officer who was wounded in Novi Sad, I was told that in that area, I don't know how many years no convictions were made against someone who carried out the attack on an authorized official. In any case, it's a very difficult profession, you're in front of the public every day, and that's why I think it's very important that on the one hand the police know they can't overstep their powers, but on the other hand, we all need to know that without the general trust between citizens, the state, the political public and the media in the police, there's no successful fight against crime, there's no stable public order and peace, the fight against terrorism and everything else that falls under the jurisdiction of the IDP. I think it's a question beyond party relations. I agree with this initiative, which is a request from both our ministry and the unions that operate within our ministry. It should be discussed in the context of changes in laws that are expected to tighten the sanctions provided for in the criminal offence against an authorised official, already in the Criminal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18762	The word has Mrs. Malovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18763	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as resolute minister, Minister of Justice, I have a moral obligation to make a comment about your question, quoting a member of the Constitution that there are three branches of government - judicial, executive and legislative authority, that one authority should influence another, but a member of the Constitution itself says that the judiciary is independent. With the particular case you've cited, I'm not familiar with it, but I'll be sure to inform you about it. Unfortunately, there have been several such correspondences lately that have been sent. In relation to the bankruptcy procedure, the law defines and determines the conditions for bankruptcy to be opened, under which conditions bankruptcy proceedings shall be conducted and under which conditions bankruptcy proceedings shall cease. Of course no one can influence, outside the legal provisions, whether bankruptcy will be initiated or not. As for the second issue, in view of tightening criminal policy or amending the Criminal Code, I am pleased to inform you all that the Ministry of Justice is working intensively on amendments to the Criminal Code. Under these amendments, the Criminal Code also provides for changes to a specific criminal offence involving an attack on an official person. It goes in the direction that the term of the official person is more general and that, of course, the threatened punishment increases. As the Ministry of Justice lately, we have often stated that our criminal policy, generally speaking, is not satisfactory. Unfortunately, the level of penalties imposed is on the edge of the legal minimum, or below the legal minimum. It should be pointed out, if we are talking about a general aspect, that courts should bear in mind that the level of punishment in a particular criminal act should adapt to the degree of social danger that this unsub has done. So there is an amendment to the Criminal Code and I think it will be on Parliament's agenda very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18764	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Andric has advertised the Rules of Procedure, but there are no such opportunities at this session. I assumed there was still a need to clarify Article 202 rather than threaten Mr Nikolic. Therefore, Article 202 allows the MP to first ask a question and it lasts for three minutes, gets an answer, has the right to comment or an additional question for five minutes, and then, after receiving an answer to the additional question, it can comment for another five minutes. You wanted a new question, not an extra one, and it's already been five minutes. Anyway, I think we've made that a little bit clear. The apostle may speak for a total of 13 minutes, if he has an additional question and, then, comment on the answer to his additional question. Mr Tomislav Nikolic wants a comment on the supplemental question. Mr. Nikolic, come in. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18765	Mr. President, I am informing you that this is not about a memo that the public has all learned about, a memo signed by Mr. Ciric. It's in the ombudsman's domain, because that put people's rights at risk who were in charge of work disputes. This is about stopping bankruptcy by the minister. Mrs. Justice just didn't finish her explanation. So it's all in court jurisdiction, ma'am. No one can say "I need to execute bankruptcy here" or "don't make a bankruptcy here". Otherwise, if we start that way, then you will decide both life and death. So, Mr. President, on 16 January 2009, the Ministry, as I consider the most perfidious, most severe type of pressure on the court, has informed the court that it is writing to him because he wants to end the bankruptcy proceedings that the court is to consider. That's what seems to me to be the most charming thing in this government. As you think about reducing the number of MPs, the easiest way to think about it is not to tell me if you are thinking about reducing the government to all these ways. If you're so itchy by this National Assembly, scratch it, but let's see what happens to this government. So there won't be more ministers than MPs, will there? Do you think we can reduce from 250 MPs to 150 and remain the Government of 40 members and 14 coalition partners? Well, it's impossible. Madam Minister, I wish you'd made us happy too so you could tell us that a civil code-making commission has been re-established, which was abolished by Mladjan Dinkic. If you are already working on amendments to the Criminal Code, at least you owe us an explanation of why a respectable commission has been abolished, and it has been abolished by Mladjan Dinkic, where they were professors of Belgrade University, who understand themselves best in this matter, perhaps in Europe. By the way, I find these sessions pointless. It's only because of the public that we're taking part in all of this, because you're avoiding showing up in front of us to defend the laws, all in the hope that the sessions will last shorter, and then you'll have to endure these three hours, so what happens? You know there's not enough questions for three hours, but for an hour and a half. That's how you create an illusion that this congregation controls the government. We really can't control you, you're being controlled by the President of the Republic. It's obvious he controls you badly or controls you the way he put the government together, anyway. I'm just warning you, I attended that union walk yesterday. I know you're taking part in this, I know that many union leaders have been on the payrolls of all governments for a long time, but believe me, the number of participants will rise from 3,000 to 30,000, to 300,000, and then it won't be good for us or you. So please think ahead, have a vision, work with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on all the measures you take. We're not without a sense of state either, and we're very worried about the state right now, and we know it's not easy for you, but you're in a circle, you want to run a circuit, so take him. The one who's not easy, don't punish us, let him get out of the car. As far as we're concerned, there's a time when we might start to support measures that lead directly to Serbia's rescue, but I haven't seen one of your measures yet. I would be very happy if 240 MPs voted for some measure that we know is the last measure Serbia is defending. And like this, as long as you're trying to trick us... Yesterday there are no five MPs, we want to kill ourselves to count you down, you can't wait 126, you applaud each other who has 126 MPs in the O.R. and you think you have a government. You are opposed to 124, 126 with blackmail, to promise to give them more money than other parts of Serbia. You share Serbia with Vojvodina and the other part, the Vojvodina and other citizens of Serbia, and you think it will end well. Please stop those processes as soon as possible. Here in the Assembly, people raise their voices, of course unpunished, and it should be unpunished, but that none of you responds to MP Ostojić's remarks that he is happy that there are only four consulates in Russia. And you sit there and enjoy yourself, not saying we need at least 40 more, because it looks like a valve through which Serbia will be able to save itself, but be quiet, enjoy it. Here you are being blackmailed by the duchy parties, everyone living here can be blackmailed because they have one or two MPs who threatens the government. And where does that lead? - the breakdown of the country. Well, it's better if the government falls apart than the state. Please, think like serious people and take measures that are suitable for serious people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18766	Mrs. Malovic wants to comment. There are no restrictions, ministers can report whenever they estimate they can answer your questions and explain the answers. There's no precise restriction, but if you don't want to hear the answer, Mr. Nikolic, you just wanted a monologue, that's fine. Do you want an answer or can we move on with the questions? Mrs. Malovic, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18767	I'm sorry, I have no intention of usurping the word in the National Assembly, I just want to give one explanation. The Commission for the Construction of the Civil Code has not been abolished. On the contrary, as Minister of Justice, I intend to propose for the next few days to fill the members who have ceased their post in the commission and to give them a working version of the property-legal code on opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18768	Thank you. The word is Dr. Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18769	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, first of all, to congratulate you on your anniversary. Today is the anniversary of the signing of this biggest contract with the Fiat, based on which this ruling coalition won the elections. On this very day, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic and the vice-president Alfredo Altavil signed a Memorandum of Understanding, Strategic Co-operation and Joint Investment in Belgrade. I will use time to quote what they promised us in the presence of the highest representatives of this country. The production of two brand-new models and the intensity of the production of "punta". By the end of 2009, it means by the end of this year, a new car model with an annual start-up production of 200,000 cars. By the end of the term of office, the flag government will be exporting millions of cars. And Mr Dinkic says -- not only the citizens of Kragujevac, but also other towns in Serbia that will produce parts for the auto-industry. All this without a business plan, without any specific detail, without the name of the model to be produced, at the time of the greatest crisis. Not to say it wasn't a crisis then, I quote "Tanjug", you could all read it in March, since this was already April, they say in March – a huge drop in car sales in Europe and America (I'm talking about March 2008). What happens after that? The vice president of the FYI was supposed to, so they told us in the Assembly to come by the end of December to tell us what would happen to the FYIAT. Of course, the Vice President of the Fiat didn't come without us talking about the President of the Fiat. Then says Mr Dinkic -- Fijata Vice President Alfredo Altavila is due to come to Belgrade on 16 March to agree on the payment of 200m euros. That visit has never been made. The contract says... I ask the question to Prime Minister Cvetkovic, since there is no resolute minister, Mr Dinkic, and, very interestingly, no one from G17 plus, so I am speaking to you, Mr. Prime Minister. Day 31. In March, 200 million payments expired, and the government, meanwhile, when it came to power, activated the bank guarantees "Atheku" and "Cuprum" Bor and in January broke the contract with "Alpina-Pore", as it allegedly did not provide a bank guarantee for the Horgos-Pozega highway. Now I ask the first question - why does this government have double standards, one according to the Alpini-Pore, and the others according to the Fiat? The second question - will you sue "Fiat" for not paying 200 million? The third question – why is this corporate contract signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia without any bank guarantee "Fiyata"?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18770	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18771	As for the first question, about double standards, I have to say you're not informed enough when it comes to Alpina-Pore. So, it wasn't the government that broke any contract, but they, when talks were held in the last quarter last year, suggested they wanted out of the contract. The bottom line of the problem was that we, respecting a position that they would not be able to close the financing structure, entered into talks with them with the idea of mutually breaking up, however, not insisting on the idea and always leaving the possibility that they would close the financing structure until the deadline that was left for them. Unfortunately, before the talks ended, they said they wanted to break the contract, which we have a written memo on. So came January 1st, and that the government did not take a single step towards the breakup, but the contract itself was simply put out of force, considering that it was the moment when a bank guarantee was to be provided. This, however, is a practical question, which, in its own right, will be declared by arbitration, so it may not even be very clever to talk about it too much, but let us now come up with the court arguments that this arbitration will appreciate and see who was right and who was wrong. In any case, it's not about the government having double standards, that it's about someone taking measures, and it's not about someone else taking action. As for the issue of a contract with the Fiat and the events that followed, of course, it's always easy when things like this happen. I note that we are here in a situation where there is a crisis, which is not only from our point of view, but it is generally known that it is imported, that the crisis is not something that has caused neither this government nor these citizens of this country, nor the citizens of the Balkans, so we have entered into an objective problem, which has come from the side. It is common knowledge that the crisis has come from the sidelines and we are trying to make the best moves. I have to say, and that may be the answer to a comment that one of the MPs asked as a question, but in the context of the comments, I want to say that the measures taken by the government have already certain positive effects. So if you're looking at the movement of industrial production, it's about, it seems, reached that decline, bottom, somewhere in maybe January-February, after which we have in March not only stopping a drastic decline compared to the previous months, but we have a practically mild recovery, measured March towards February. Of course, we are still falling from the previous year, but the figures look about like this -- that the decline in industrial production in February was about 19%, and in March around 14%, so we see that there was a slight recovery, as a consequence of the measures that the government began to take. Under these measures, there are, of course, measures where we adapt to the new situation in relation to "Fiat" and its investment. Of course, when it comes to the Alpina-Pore, where it's trying to create a parallel, we, once again, would like to conclude, haven't made a unilateral move, but they haven't closed the financing structure and told us that they're coming out of the contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18772	Thank you. Mr Popovic has an additional question or comment. Please, just register.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18773	Madam Chairman, I must say that the Honorable Prime Minister has not answered my two specific questions, so I will repeat them. The first question is, Mr. Prime Minister - what did the Government of the Republic of Serbia do because "Fiat" did not pay 200m euros by 31 March, as written in the contract? Are you going to sue "Fiat" for that? That was my first question. My second question was, Mr. President - why was such a contract signed without a single guarantee of "Fiita" in the first place? Mr. President, if Mr. Dinkic were present, I'd ask him this question, I know you weren't personally a creator, but he's your minister and you're obliged to answer us. I'd have to say, on today's anniversary of this big fiath scam, what happened. We have a full production today at the flag. I must, because of the MPs in this assembly, because of the viewers, because of our voters, say – this production of "punta" is not a substitute for "fiat". This "full" that is now being produced is the same "flag 10" that was produced during the previous government that you were in, Mr. President. The government headed by Prime Minister Kostunica, I don't remember whether it was the first or the second one, when you were, Mr. President, bought 14m euros in equipment that produces "full" today. So that's the flag's equipment. The same government bought a licence from the Fiat for the production of the 10 flag for three million euros. ‘Staff 10’ or as they now call ‘full’ has been produced until your arrival to power. What is now being done with the "punta" is one huge scam. I think it was one of the most wrong moves this government has made, because without any guarantees from the "Fiyat", without even a single guarantee... That contract that was put together wouldn't have passed any students on the exam, and it was signed by your government, Mr. Prime Minister. An economic or any college student wouldn't go through with a contract like that. It's the most dilettante contract. I'll show it to my students as an example of how an irresponsible government is signing contracts with private companies. What's going on now? An irresponsible decision by the government of 4,000 flag workers was sent home. The production of ‘South’ produced has been stopped. Yeah, of course, "South" isn't a good car, maybe. It's probably "full" better. And the Mercedes is better, the BMW is better, the "boying" is better. And "boing" is better than "South", but "South" sold seven to eight thousand to ten thousand a year, employed 4,000 workers in direct production, and 20,000 co-operatives. For today's "full", which is now being concluded (I have to use that word "assemble", means - does not produce) 100 percent of the parts come from Italy. This is a fantastic gift to the Italian government, for which it should be grateful, because about 7,000 Italian cooperative workers are now involved in this production of "full". Serbian workers at the flag, 500 of them, weld and polish, nothing else. Three and a half thousand workers sit at home. But I have to inform the public, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made a commitment, signing this crazy contract with the "Fiyat" that these workers who sit at home pay their salaries every month. You, Mr. President, pay every month the wages to the workers who sit in the houses. So I ask you, for the sake of the public, to answer these two very specific questions. I know you're not the personal creator, the idea creator of this, but your minister, but you're the Prime Minister, and you're under obligation, because of all those workers who are sitting here right now, and because of 20,000 "South" cooperatives who are now sitting here without a job, to answer our questions. I'd like to thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18774	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18775	Thank you. I'd like to answer the question and I don't want any alibi. If I were looking for an alibi, I could say that these arrangements were reached before this government was formed, so I had nothing to do with it. However, I want to also treat myself as part of this project, and in this context I will give you answers. When you do a job, you always have an option to do something or not to do something. In this context, I think there is this difference between "the Alps" and "Fiat". So when the Alpina said -- we're out of the contract, we didn't have another option, let's say -- no, don't come out, because they practically didn't close the financing structure and they said they were coming out of the contract. When it comes to the "Fiat", this economic crisis that I was talking about has given the option of making certain adjustments, and to continue to remain at the job, which we still think will be something that will be very, very useful for our economy. With the circumstances, this crisis has hit the most the automotive industry, and we've had an accident that we've just made one so serious deal in that part, and we haven't done it in agriculture, which is less affected by the crisis. But where we are, we must live with it and move on. What did the government do? Of course, the government did what it chose between two favors. One, I understand, is your suggestion that we tell them - thank you, gentlemen "Fiat", we don't want to talk to you. I don't think the government would accept such a proposal. As you can see, the Americans are talking to the Fiat, and let alone we, one weak state, one weak production, have the luxury of being able to reject the options we are offered. Therefore, in the choice between alternatives, we believe that at some point we have chosen the best alternative and if we were to choose again, we would choose that alternative again. As far as the quality of the contract you're criticizing is concerned, of course, it's your right. I don't know what his quality is, I'm not a lawyer, but based on what I can hear on the side, I can see that he's being realized with certain annexes, and according to the agreements as it was, where what I know is that he never officially gave up on the concept that he was talking about, but only the movement was done, or the prolonged deadlines, respecting the circumstances in which we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18776	Thank you. Comment on the answer, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18777	I won't use five minutes for my colleagues, so they can ask a question. I'm sorry in advance, let me just say, we didn't propose to just break that contract with the Fiat. We just suggested, Mr. President, because we think we need a contract to be respected. We are a state, the state has signed a contract and the contract says that "Fiat" is obliged to pay up to 31 March 200m euros. If he does not pay, the fine for "Fiat" is 30m euros. And a dot. The state only has to react. That's the deal. You can make a decision to extend that deadline to the Fiat for another three months, or another six months, or a year, or forever. I guess it's forever, because this is a unilateral application of a contract with the "Fiat". The government of the Republic of Serbia has re-balanced the budget again for "Fiat", and Fiat pays nothing. So please, Mr. President, I'm sorry, I didn't get the answer. I will repeat again, I know that you are not personally the creator of this, but Mr Dinkic, but I must say once again – the government has a commitment, the deadline has expired, that in some way it reacts, or that it extends that deadline or that it requires the collection of 30m-euro penalty pens from the "Fiyat". Silence doesn't lead to anything, silence isn't a position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18778	Thank you. Sir, I'll stay, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18779	In the last presentation, the ministers responded to me, but I didn't get a chance to make any remarks, remarks, say my opinion. I'm not gonna ask any new questions. Mr. Markovic, I didn't say your laws were majority, that you wanted to change, I said, "This leads." Mr. Milosavljevic, do not defend the Strategy by listing the prominent people who worked for it, because experts work for money. Experts work for money, and they write what the payer orders. I don't know who paid for it. It was probably a public procurement, so the ad, so those experts came in, and they got some, and some didn't get it. Speaking of experts working for money, Mr Markovic can tell you, those who write election laws write that the direct choice of mayors is the highest European standard, and then after a year say that the choice of mayors and the Assembly is also the highest standard. So whoever gives money determines what a European standard will be. But speaking of public procurement, Mr. Cvetkovic, you're avoiding this VAT issue for a charged realisation, or if you've done some balances, just to remind you. Now I remember, many times Mr. Maras from this pay phone asked if you had an answer to the question why money from public enterprises goes to some minor newspaper, I think they're called "Justice" (or "guilty", I don't remember). It is where public enterprises are advertised at the level of the Republic of Serbia, which is controlled by the adviser of your party's president. Since there are no economic reasons, because there are small circulations of these newspapers, then there must be political ones, and since that newspaper is not propagating the policy of European integration, but the opposite of what you're saying – then it's one situation, how can I say, where we asked you, asked and asked you, but, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, we didn't get the answer. Speaking of these European integrations, I did not say I was happy that there are no more than four consulates in Russia. I don't even know if there are four or three, but I know there aren't in America, in Russia I guess there aren't, because consulates are opening up to meet the needs of Serbian citizens, not the needs of other citizens, because consulates are paying Serbian citizens. And right from the right place came the opposition about Russia, to plead that you might want to have 40 consulates there. But that's what someone needs to pay for. If you think that you are unhappy that Serbia is not Russian Governor, there is an opportunity for you, after the next elections, to make a government that will make it out of Serbia. If you get most of it, and I'm sure you won't. For the end, Mr. Grouchy, it's yours – watch, hop, I won't let anyone go bankrupt... You know, there's a law in this country, there are rules. You somehow, when I listen to you, you remind me of those times -- reconstruction, construction, come on, cooked brandy, let's move on, can we do it before the deadline... It ended in the 24th of September 2000 elections, and I don't have to remind you how. That's why I think it's better for you to figure out how you're gonna make it possible for the passengers, if there's no money... We of the LDP are constantly suggesting something, but you listen to a little of it and very late. You could maybe give them for that money that the state owes state bonds, so they can expand into banks. Maybe that's the way, I don't know what. I repeat the question once again – what would happen to the winning NIS of previous years, which the Russians turned into a loss? How can I tell you, Mr. Grouchy? When I look at you all, I feel a slight pleasure. Three or four times I've been through my head today -- you're a very interesting government, and I imagine you from the SPS, along with Mr. Ugljanin and Rasim Ljajic, running around Serbia looking for Dražin's grave. I think that's what you're supposed to do, because you're still an expert in digging. Thank you. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: I guess I'm an expert in digging. ) [[Laughter in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18780	Here you go, Mr. Minister. If you want to answer, you're right, just register. Would you like some, Mr. President? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18781	Here, I'll make a quick comment or maybe an answer. It was very difficult for me, I must say, to follow you, because I was thinking whether these are questions or comments, since you asked a lot of questions – the winning NIS, the reduction of VAT, this payment of debt to the Public Business Ways of Serbia... I'd like to comment very briefly. First of all, as far as the winnings of NIS are concerned, I don't know what is available and what is the data that is circulating, but basically here it's about a different view of the end of 2008, where our people working at NIS were firmly convinced that it works with profit. But when the final bill was officially made, he showed he had losses instead of winnings. Then, about that, an external auditor has been hired to take a stand on it. I'm against bidding whether it's a win or a loss. It is simply necessary to wait for the external auditor to express his position and that attitude will have to be accepted by each party. I don't see what's controversial about it – whether it's questionable that someone thought one thing or thought the other, or that it's controversial that we want to accept the situation as the independent auditor does. As far as VAT is concerned, I still don't know if the suggestion is that it should be reduced. I have to say, that's a good suggestion if we had a substitute in another item, which would increase budget revenues. Here, I'm taking the opportunity, because you have, if that's your idea, to give it comprehensively and to say, cut the VAT, and replace it from there and from there, and we're going to seriously consider it. The problem is that ideas are given on a partial basis and then you can't see what the effects are. We've, by the way, made this budget way too much because we had a deficit on the gulf side, too, which then generated the total deficit. By the way, VAT in our country of 18% is not a VAT that is significantly high compared to other countries. He's even one of the smaller ones. If there was a further reduction, I think it would have a very beneficial impact on consumption and, of course, on everything you say. In that part, I agree, but I suggest If we can also get a proposal for an item that would allow us to replace these expenses. [[Zagor in the O.R., the President bell reminds the MPs.]] I don't know if there was any more questions. That's it. (Zoran Ostojić, from the post: You have not answered the question of "Justice". )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18782	Thank you. Mrs. Marina Ragush has a word. I'm sorry, Mr. Mrkonjic has the word first. Here you go. Just register, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18783	You, Mr. Ostović, look like a very charming gentleman, and I like that. Unfortunately, you'll have to look at me for a long time, because all this country has left is digging. Seven years, 55 billion dollars went by without knowing what. And unfortunately, now the corridors, again, in this big crisis, have confirmed that they are very significant and perhaps our only developmental opportunity. I'd like someone younger and nicer to sit here instead of me, but you'll have to understand that. I think it's time we joined up at this job and finally started in Europe - by realising those projects that are our comparative advantage, which is the railroad and the way to Europe. Seven years, 55 billion, and now that we've sold everything, that is, when you've sold everything, it's all that's left, and the world admits it. Mr. Stayer, I'm going to suggest someone younger instead of me to make your eyes look better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18784	The word is Mrs. Marina Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18785	So, everything is almost the same, just, about, President Milosevic was killed in The Hague, and that's what's a dramatic fact. But when you started talking about Corridor 10, what the public would most likely want to hear is whether Mr. Buha Chume and Mr. Lazarevic will be pleased with the replacement of land and nature, further, does this mean that they will start Corridor 10 after seven years and, finally, what is left for this country to sell out so as not to actually put out the fire ahead of the state of Serbia. So, Mr. Grouchy, as always, you've given me a fantastic figure of speech. We are also interested in who invited the Serbian Government to dance, whose music the Government dances to and what happens when that music stops. That's the essential question. I'll try to ask a few questions in this short time, in three minutes, very specific and precise. For example, as far as the Department of Justice is concerned, I'd like to hear an interpretation of the following legal situation. What happens when the state cannot enforce laws in the sovereign part of the territory (directly related to the KIM territory)? We're here to kill ourselves by seizing ourselves, adopting certain bill proposals that we definitely know will not apply to KIM territory. I'm asking you specifically to tell me what kind of legal treatment this situation is. Secondly, Mr. Home Secretary, the SRS has the following information. On 12 October 2008, a roundtable was held in Bujanovac, which was organised by Help and UNDP, where William Montgomery, Nebojsa Covic, Riza Halimi and others participated. The theme of the round table was: Establishing stronger ties between Kosovo and the Presevo and Bujanovac regions. We're looking for accurate information and clarification of this. What we also learned from the writing of Sunday's "Southwestern European Times", Ivo de Kermabon visited Belgrade, spoke with Mr. Ivica Dacic, Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic, Mrs. Malovic, Minister for Kosovo Goran Bogdanovic, on that occasion said that a new door to increased co-operation between Serbia and Eulex was opened. We would like an explanation of what this specifically means, whether this defacto means the recognition of an illegal Eulex mission on KIM territory. Finally, since I have less than a minute – who will be in favour of the SAA and unilateral application of the Trade Agreement this and the next three years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18786	Thank you. The word has Minister Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18787	With special pleasure, I will respond to Miss Ragush. So, Corridor 10 is already known to everyone and it's good to remember him again. This year we plan to do 40 kilometers, 21 km from Presevo to Levoso, it is done and will be completed on July 7th, and 20 kilometers from Novi Sad to Horgos. Today, the tender is over, the performers will be elected in the next five days, the construction of the 20km will begin on May 9th, and the end will be planned on November 29th. That's what we can do this year. Everything else is about what we'll do later. We do this by domestic means, to create conditions for international loans to be realised, of which we already have one, connected to a section of the bypass around Belgrade, from Batajnica to Dobanovac. It is these famous 10km, plus loops at Batajnica, which is 115m euros, a loan that was verified in this high house a year or a half ago. We need to create conditions to make that happen through expropriation. Land ownership doesn't matter yet. The names you mentioned may partially have property there, I don't know, but it doesn't matter at all. We have to, in order for the loan to become operational, to execute the expropriation and build a major project for that stock. I guess it's the country's interest, no matter who owns the land, I don't want to get into it, maybe I'd have more reason to get angry... I'm glad you mentioned Mr. Milosevic, my personal friend, I don't know what context, but I'm glad. So it doesn't matter whose land it is. The land is someone's property, but those who own it should, of course, talk to them and buy that land as soon as possible. If we do it for the next two months, here, I promise Mr. Ostojić that we can reactivate those 10km highways, 115m euros will enter the country. I didn't say it, Mr. Tomo (or Comrade Tomo, I don't know what to call you) that I'm going to prevent bankruptcy, but for bankruptcy, I guess the most important thing is that people have work to do. I guess nobody's crazy about going bankrupt if they're busy. So my job is to create conditions for people to get jobs with people in the government. In that context, I was talking about not letting bankruptcy, start because there's no job. If that's enough, Mrs. Ragush, I thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18788	The word is Mr. Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18789	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear People's MPs, since it was a matter of applying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, I want to give a few facts. First, it is not a unilateral application of the Agreement, because in that most important part of customs duty since November 2000, the EU has abolished customs duties towards our country. This specifically means that we have access to the largest market in the world, of some 500 million consumers, without restrictions. In the last year alone, if we look at what was the export of our producers to the EU, we would have had to pay 385m euros in customs if we had not had these privileges. If we look at the effect on our economy, the elimination of customs duties on products that Serbia exports to the EU, it represents about two billion euros. These are the benefits we've had for the last eight years. During that time, exports of the Republic of Serbia to EU countries increased by 265%. Of course, we would all like it to be much larger, but it is certain that these benefits, which we have enjoyed since 2000, have significantly contributed to the increase in exports in that scope. At the same time, if we look at the effects of the first two months of application of the SAA by our country, we must remind ourselves that it is a six-year transitional agreement, which predicted that only those tariffs that are very low, mainly industrial products that are not produced in our country, are abolished in the first year of application. On average, customs duties amounting to 1.86% were not customs duties which protected certain production. At the same time, according to these first indications, it's still early to give the final number for this year. I want to meet respected MPs with the fact that the loss of customs duties for the first two months is about 10m euros. The figure also includes reduced figures on the imports of passenger cars, where our country, for the sake of supporting and equipping our households, went further than what was agreed in the SAA itself, where in the first year the customs duty was to be reduced from 20% to 16.6%, rather than starting from January 30th this year on a 10% customs duty on cars coming from the EU. I'm not saying that this should be multiplied by these 11 months, then we'd get to about 55 million euros in losses, but we see that these figures, what's reality, are significantly less than the ones we're talking about. At the same time, in the first three months of this year alone, our country received 165m euros in direct investment from EU companies. If we look at the total number of investments in our country, and these amount to about 16 billion euros since 2001, it should be noted that 75% of these investments are related to companies based in the EU. And that's where things are connected. The fact is that we have an open market for the European Union to our producers. At the same time, this path to Europe is an extremely strong incentive for investment in our country. No serious investor invests in Serbia to cover its market, but to cover all EU markets and all other countries with which we have free trade zones. Finally, in these difficult circumstances of the global economic crisis, our country continued to attract investments, one investment from Russia, "Gaspromneft" in "NIS". At the same time, the 165m euros from the EU, which I was talking about, have not yet been announced. I would like to mention several – from the Netherlands company "Heineken" and "VDP", German "Leoni" and "Reum", which produce automotive components, as well as some other investments currently being carried out. To recap, the application of the Stabilisation Agreement is something that, in this customs section, the European Union has been working for eight years. Our companies received two billion euros in benefits. The effect on customs revenues is about 10m euros for the first two months, but at the same time, because trade and investment are linked, we continue to attract investments, especially from the European Union, and that logic of things should continue in the future. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18790	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Malovic has a word. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18791	Here, I'll try to answer your question and, if there's any further explanation, I'm also ready to do it. As for the regulations concerning the functioning of Kosovo and Metohija, I'm sure you know about it, but for the sake of the public of Serbia, I will repeat that, in terms of Kosovo and Metohija... (President: Please, the delayed transmission will be immediately upon completion of the sports event which began at 1800 hours, in the most visible time. By 6 p.m., we were directly involved, and the delayed transmission would be about 1 9:45 p.m. Go on, Madam Minister. ) So, in Kosovo and Metohija, the United Nations Resolution, known as 1244, applies. Also, on 24 November 2008, a report by the United Nations Secretary-General confirmed by the UN Security Council's presidential statement of 26 November 2008, which contains six points. On this basis, the Government of the Republic of Serbia reached its conclusion on the deployment of the EU Rule of Law Mission, known as Eulex, in the entire AP KIM territory, which refers to the confirmation of a six-point plan by the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the protection of the interests of the Republic of Serbia. To clarify, what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted is EULEX, exclusively under the auspices of the UN and with respect for status neutrality.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18792	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18793	On the occasion of questions related to a meeting in southern Serbia, I do not have information at this time on whether the meeting was held or not. You may also refer that question to your fellow MP, Mr. Halimi, who is present here. In any case, I want to say here publicly that the Ministry of the Interior will take whatever is in our jurisdiction to prevent any violation of our country's territorial integrity.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18794	Thank you. Mrs. Ragush, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18795	For Mrs Malovic - I would only like you to show me a place in Resolution 1244 that Eulex provides, I would like you to show me in which part of the presidential statement Eulex is mentioned, but I will also pay attention to the Security Council meetings, the degrees of the head of Mr Curkin's diplomatic mission, which says that on the territory of the artificial, therefore, terrorist formations of Kosovo and Metohija the plan of Martti Ahtisaari is implemented and that Eulex does not have the legitimacy to be in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Is it possible, then, that the Serbian government has committed a completely illegal act and admitted to its conclusion that Eulex exists in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? And we haven't heard anything you've been talking to Mr. De Kermabon about. So, just show me where these two international legal documents are predicting, and in particular a presidential statement, that in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija Eulex, which also participates, say, Croatia. If you don't show it, then the government has actually done a completely illegal and illegal act of its conclusion. And I'm also reuniting myself with the conclusions of the Russian diplomatic mission within the Security Council, and then it further means that we are under occupation and that you do not carry out what your authority is. In fact, there should be a shadow government, the right government to make decisions, which does not destroy Serbian national interests. Also, another question -- tell me, Mrs Malovic, how the Justice Ministry reacts, let's say, in a situation where the executive power of this non-contestable Serbia, for example in the city of Belgrade, assumes judicial authority. The third question – how does the Justice Ministry react in a situation where the executive power completely ignores the rulings of the Supreme Court of Serbia? As for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Mr. Djelic, you've told us everything we know, but you haven't answered the question of who will be in favour of the next two or three years of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the unilateral application of the Trade Agreement. Why am I telling you this? I usually say the source, and I refer mostly to state sources. So, the governor of the National Bank, Mr Jelasic, said on January 1st 2009 on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement: It is known how much less revenue will be due to the implementation of the SAA, but it is necessary to check the effect that we have so far had on paper, the impact of instability on the international financial market, the effect that one part of the factory has decided to stop production, which means less earnings and less revenue in the budget. Holy shit, when it's gathered together, it's much better to face reality in time than to delay it constantly, so when we eventually think of it, it's too late. If you can see in a few months from the point of view of income and expenditure that this budget will not be able to withstand that path by the end of the year, to face reality as quickly as possible, and to see what are the additional measures that, possibly, must be taken as soon as possible, the better. He also sends a very clear message to the public. When it comes to politicians, he begs the public not to listen to politicians, because they explained a month and a half ago that the crisis will fly over us and when it comes to losing strength, weight and so on. But now they're saying something quite the opposite. We also had official statements that the loss of unilateral application of the Trade Agreement should, after that course, amount to around 267m euros. The next set of questions will refer specifically to ordinary people, citizens of Serbia who will not be able to bear the burden of the crisis. But since we are time (President: Mrs. Ragush, that would be for the second round of questions if we arrived, but obviously we won't get there. ) points out, I will bring this set of questions to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18796	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18797	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry that I wasn't in a position to ask a question sooner than two and a half hours after the Rules of Procedure. But these are the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and, behold, after half-seven I am able to talk about a problem that requires urgent resolution. I will ask a question concerning the work of Serbia's largest exporter, Petrochemical, which is 80% state-owned. It is a company that, thanks to the quality of its products, successfully exports to the Western European market, to Germany, Switzerland, Italy and other countries. It is a company that employs 2,350 workers, and it is precisely the work of Petrochemy that depends on a whole number of other workers who use Petrochemy products. It is a company whose work provides tax collection of 23m euros per year. It's a company that survived the sanctions, which survived the bombing, which survived other risks. Although I do know that there is a serious effort and a representative of the state in NIS leadership to provide the sufficient amount of primary gasoline needed directly for the continuity of the work of Petrochemy, it is about the current quantities of about 5,000 tonnes, intervening, but it is also about the need to ensure the continuity of work and in the coming period it is necessary to provide adequate liquid liquidity. My question is directed towards the government of the Republic of Serbia, and the fact is that there are as many as 15 ministers here from 23, so there are practically two-thirds of the Government of the Republic of Serbia here in this room. I know you've probably been considering the good part and these problems, but I'm interested, as an MP from Pancheva, who is all being taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and especially the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, including other ministries, in order to prevent any environmental risk if there is an end to production in Petrochemy. Each stop and launch of such a process industry brings not only enormous material damage, but, above all, environmental risks. (President: Mr. Mikovic, try to bring an end and ask a concrete question. ) In this sense, I ask the question – what is being done to provide liquid liquidity, to help Petrochemicals prevent environmental risks and to ensure the continuity of work, as it depends on the work of both the Refinery and other companies?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18798	Thank you. Do any of the ministers want to give an answer? Mr. Cvetkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18799	Petrochemy is all you said. It is also a large factory that employs a large number of people, from whom many families live. The question here is whether she has problems with current liquidity or has problems with the inability to produce a product that can charge more than it is invested in. The problem with Petrochemy has probably arisen in an earlier period and has come into focus, at least to me in the cabinet a month ago, when problems with the delivery of crude gasoline have arisen, as a result of the fact that Petrochemy was unable to pay for it. So it's not about anything else, it's just about paying the input. Given that, I organized a meeting at my office, and I talked to the vice president in charge of the economy and asked us to find a strategy for what to do. First, whether it can live without subsidies; if it cannot, how long these subsidies can last. In particular, the question has been raised, because in addition to current liquidity, we have accumulated obligations, where the state itself, let's say, can come to a meeting, but now there is a supplier who is in majority private ownership who will no longer tolerate delivering products without being paid for it. Given the above, we have considered some three or four strategies. This time it is mentioned that, by chance, although I cannot claim it, there are many more employees than is necessary. Also, but I'm also not saying, it seems that the average wages are well above the average wages in the economy. It remains unclear how much money it takes a month to give Petrochemy so that what you say will cover the liquid liquidity to get raw oil, but not to pay the other costs. At that given moment, we found opportunities a week or two ago and paid them about a million dollars. It's been 10-15 days. Yesterday I received a letter from them, which is dramatically referred to several addresses, where it is said that they are now in the same situation again, is mentioned ecological disaster etc. I called the vice president for the economy today to ask him how far they've come with our examinations and see if we have the opportunity to keep that company alive and, simply, what to do. He said that it was about close with his calculations to see how much monthly needs are, that they are likely to exceed that million dollars (perhaps they are significantly larger, multiple) and that depending on the result we will get to what is needed to do. He said it was over and we'd see what it was and what it was like right after the holiday. I think that, when it comes to what the state is inaccessing from them taxes, etc., that those tax liabilities that she did not pay in the earlier period we can talk about. However, we need to do a project based on which one of our biggest exporters will be able to do so in an efficient way and that we have some benefit from these exports, not that we are investing significant resources, which we unfortunately do not have, in current production. So, as for the economic part and the investment of the additional money, the rest is to see what the calculations say after the holiday, and as far as the environment and other details are concerned, I give the word to Minister Dulic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18800	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18801	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this topic has been important and focused on several ministries over the past few days. I think Mr. Prime Minister gave a comprehensive answer on economic issues. What is important for the environmental issue, of course, that any stop to Petrochemy would lead to an eco-accessant that would be quite large scales and we would certainly have warned of that possibility. At this point I can say that, precisely because of this intervention by the state and the acquisition of 5,000 tonnes of primary gasoline, as well as financial aid that will constitute an advance payment of the next amount of primary gasoline, the process continues. I also have to say that the question is how can there be an end to the work of Petrochemy in the first place, because it's a tied process system where I can't imagine, at least from an ecological point of view, that the oil refinery continues to work if Petrochemy doesn't work. This is one of the questions that we, as the Ministry of Environment, will ask in the future, because Petrochemy is one of the segments of the system that represents, thanks to the legalization pool and large investments we have had over the past few years, that the benzene concentration above Pančev is reduced to those values that are below the limits allowed. In addition to this economic aspect and the ecological issue is very important, I would say even dominantly, and it will certainly be one of the options, that, in the future, when talking to the Russian side, or the majority owner of the Refinery and NIS, it will discuss and ask the question to which the answer is indeed sought – in which way the Refinery can continue production if one important process is stopped, which is to process wastewater and stop the benzene concentration in the air, i.e. stop the work of Petrochemy. I'm sure we can solve this problem with common forces. I am sure everyone understands that stopping the work of Petrochemy is both economic and environmental at this point, and that it is a good argument to find a long-term solution to this problem. Today, we have been checking further investment as well as undermining the escalating pool, they continue, and this very investment has led to the concentration of benzene and other illicit substances in the air in Pancheva being within normal limits over the past few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18802	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18803	I'm kind of used to being on a delayed transmission. My question is very specific and concerns why no one has thought, and this very good president of the DS, president of Serbia, the fact-finding prime minister and the fact-finding president of the National Assembly, on the reduction of the number of ministers, the dominants and the doministers, because you gentlemen have 300 pieces in all. If he had already thought about having a moment of work change the Constitution and that 250 MPs would come down to 150, why didn't he think about this? The next question concerns how many civil servants there are in certain ministries and on which they were received, if under the Civil Service Act there should be a permanent composition of employees of professionals who, above all, are experts and not set up by political mercy. Now, if it weren't for political mercy, but often for nepotism, the next case would testify. Due to the importance of gender equality, the Gender Equality Sector was formed and the assistant was appointed Natalija Micunović, who ended in 1984 in Sarajevo philosophy, literature and mathematics, so that from 1985 to 1996 she would be perfected, where else, rather than in America, where she also doctored political philosophy and taught mathematical logic. It is a member of the DS since its founding, which is not weird because the splinter does not fall far from the stake, as it is the daughter of Professor Dragoljub Micunovic. He comes to the post of assistant minister after working at the Institute of Philosophy and Social Theory. The new Law on the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in 2008 makes the sector grow in the Directorate for Gender Equality, and Dr Natalija Micunovic becomes director of the Administration, which brings her a higher salary than the one which, according to the Law on Salaries, has an assistant minister. The size of the business, however, has not increased, the number of employees remained the same, consisting of four high-experienced officials and one administrative worker, the tenant. But there are four other people who don't know whether the Ministry pays them by contract, or who are reportedly on projects. It is certain that one of them is Mirjana Marjanovic, the godmother of Natalija Micunovic, and it is known that the ministry has been paying by contract since 2007. Vesna Jaric, who finished Japanese in Italy (interesting), was presented as a member of the government's vice president Djelic's team for a poverty reduction strategy. Who's paying, you don't know, but that's why it's known that Nadežda Radovic-Cetkovic's daughter is a journalist's list, "Today", who entered feminist circles after a successful career in the CK. This lady, otherwise in front of the Administration, in 2008 explains the work of the Committee on Gender Equality, and in what capacity - e, we have no idea. Nor is she an official (President: It has been three minutes. The government can't even have... (President: Can you specify a question or bring the end?) ) The question was – how was it possible that on 28 February in Belgrade at a meeting dedicated to gender equality, namely the state of six republics (including the two of them were defined as the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Kosovo), Mrs Natalija Micunovic and Vesna Jaric, on behalf of the Ministry of Labour and the team for EU integration, were in general involved? Does this mean that the government, which gives Tito's honorable pioneer word that Kosovo will never recognise as independent, has practically let the government's most representatives do so by attending this meeting?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18804	I appreciate the questions. Do any of the ministers want a word? Yes, Mr. Rasim Ljajic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18805	For the first time, I hear a meeting was held, attended by representatives of the so-called the Republic of Kosovo. It is only true that the International Assembly on Gender Equality was held in the organisation of the Agency for Gender Equality and the UNDP, where they were representatives of the countries of the region, but as far as I know, I opened the meeting, no one from Kosovo participated. This is something else I really don't know, except that Natalija Micunović is Mr. Micunović's daughter, and some of those people you mentioned I personally don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18806	Thank you. Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18807	You know, Mr. Ljajic, it's a big problem when you don't control who works for you at the ministry. Secondly, I did not say that there were representatives of Kosovo, but that the meeting was dedicated to the state of gender equality in six republics, and in these six republics Serbia, or Kosovo, was also found. How could you allow representatives of your ministry to participate in a meeting to discuss the state of gender equality in the Republic of Kosovo? That's a question for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18808	Thank you. Mr. Ljajic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18809	If you are already talking about six republics, it is known that the former Yugoslavia was composed of six republics. Kosovo is absolutely not mentioned here. Once again, it was not about the position and state of gender equality in Kosovo, but about the position of women in Southeast Europe and gender equality in the region. I really don't know, and for the first time I've heard that there were ever words about Kosovo at this rally.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18810	Mrs. Jankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18811	Then it's great that I informed you, and that shows that you're obviously incapable of managing your own ministry when you don't know what it's about. What is certain is that, at the request of the ladies concerned, the "Official Messenger" in the large circulation even printed copies of the draft law on gender equality and the draft national strategy to improve women's position, and of course, we do not know whether in Serbia with Kosovo or Serbia without Kosovo, because they participated in this debate. They didn't just open it, they participated in the debate. The halls of your Directorate for Gender Equality are covered by draft regulations, constantly printing new ones that are subject to change in the process of obtaining opinions or public debates, and they will soon become obsolete. And then you use it to, say, for 8 March to women's associations, instead of food money, communals, medications, gifts, give old copies of these blueprints. You say - Natalija Micunović is known to me as the daughter of Prof. Micunović. What does that mean? Is that nepotism? Is it possible you don't know any of her other qualifications? What does that really mean? It's not like he's not doing anything in Serbia. Politicians hire their children, children of their godfathers, godfathers and friends write in writing, you take pictures as a minister (and others, of course), and "The Official Messenger" all for our money. Now, really, if it weren't tragic, it would be funny. For if the Government is wrong, yours is the thesis; we will change the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18812	Thank you. Mr. Ljajic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18813	If this is about printing, I can say that no single dinar in the country's budget, the government, has gone to the ministry or to the printing of any material related to the conference. It is a joint project financed by the UNDP. So don't change the thesis. I did not say that the only qualification of Natalija Micunovic is that she is the daughter of Professor Micunović, I only said that of all those whom you listed as evidence of nepotism I only know that she is indeed the daughter of Professor. Micunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18814	Thank you. The first round of representatives of all the designated groups is over. Now he's got Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18815	I ask the question to Mr. Prime Minister, and I would not like the answer to be postponed because of the absence of Mr. Dinkic, who is in fact directly competent and the question is, are there privileged buyers of social capital and, if any, who are they? These privileged customers, for example. The Agency has several times extended the deadline for the execution of contractual obligations, so when one to two years have expired since the conclusion of the contract, the Agency no longer has the authority to exercise control over the execution of the contract; it has not provided bank guarantees for the execution of investment commitments, but the Government can no longer do anything. One such example is the Geomasina of Zemun. They addressed the government, the President of the Republic and the Ministry of Economy. I own the original document where there's evidence that they submitted their request for an immediate termination of the purchase contract, according to the law, but that absolutely no one is responding. I simply want to ask the Government - do you who are authorized to implement privatisation, to respect the law, have any instruments in your hands called government, agency or president's powers to represent the interests of small shareholders, who are being violated? And this isn't a lonely example and an exception. It is said that the Association of Minority Shareholders from Geomashina all over 2008 points to the competent state authorities in a destructive business policy and that their rights are usurped in a way that out of 380 employees, as far as they were in the production process, they are now located in jobs only 49, which work in security jobs, that under the company’s sale of the accounting value of zero fixed assets are actually sold out basic products, that the investment obligation is not met by the new owner, that false reports in the final account have been shown, that the funds from the sale of the privatisation entity equipment are not shown anywhere. Since I am sure that in this case many minority shareholders with the same problems will be identified, I ask you – is it enough to say "to press a lawsuit before the court, to exercise their rights there" if we know that court fees are increased about 50%, as much as yesterday, if these people ask, rightly - what does the government do to preserve the activity that is "Geomashine" completely unique and is this country a place where they can complain or those organs are out of this country?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18816	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18817	I will give a very short answer to the question whether there are privileged customers or not. The short answer is no. So the whole story about privatisation and everything the government is behind is that there are no privileged categories, but that everyone has equal rights and equal opportunities. Since I see that you own materials that talk about abuses, which are hard to judge from the bench like this, I think it's best that you give these materials to the government, because it can't deal with it, but to give them to the prosecutor and see if he finds some basis in it. With regard to what happens in that direction, the government is firmly behind the view that everything has to be legal and there is no one who is privileged.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18818	Mrs. Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18819	Mr. President, if this were the first address that minority shareholders have come to, I wouldn't have used it to support the example that privileged buyers exist in this country. They used their right, knowledge of the law and the ability to address all relevant addresses, but the answer, respect for the law, and not some help, they didn't find. The reason I'm opening a question like this is actually the next one. Do you direct workers whose rights are clearly violated and their jobs are closed, that they exercise their rights from the roofs of the factory, threatening to give their lives for it, to go out on the streets and strike or in this country there are courts that will judge by law, where minority shareholders' rights are protected by the Law on Economic Society or we will leave the courts at the mercy and mercy of Mr Dinkic, who is absolutely not interested as Mladjan Dinkic, but as Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Minister, who, through his assistants and secretaries, exerts direct and open pressure on the court, and is interested in certain cases and that is just certain? And the government can't give such an easy answer. I will no longer use the right to seek clarification. My goal was for citizens to hear how you treat such open violations of the law and what is called, in fact, the endangerment of the lives of 390 people, who, by not having a job and the possibility of earning a salary, have a life-threatening existence.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18820	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18821	I'll be very brief. I am truly complicit in the problems of these workers, but also, just one of your predecessors here said that some government people are putting pressure on the court and it's characterized as very negative, and now I understand that we should put pressure on the court. I think the court still needs to remain neutral, and I am firmly convinced that there is also a court that adheres to the law and is to be addressed. Of course, there are problems, but that's why the government is going to reform the judiciary and I expect only the best results of these activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-30-0.u18822	Thank you. Mrs. Tabakovic, I'm sorry, it's exactly 19.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, dear ministers, I am pleased to have finished this session with parliamentary issues, which, according to our rules of procedure, takes place every last Thursday of the month from 16:00 to 19.00. The continuation of the fourth session is Monday, May 4, at 10:00 p.m. I want nice first-class holidays for all the citizens and for you.
