ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26361	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. To determine the exact number of MPs present in the O.R., please place the cards in the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one-third is present and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the MPs: Borislav Pelevic, Elvira Kovac, Momo Colaković and Vlajko Senic. According to Article 88(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that I have called for today's session to be attended by Prof. Dr. Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health, Dr. Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, Dr. Svetozar Čiplic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, Dr. Perisa Simonović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Gordana Podjanin, Senior Adviser at the Ministry of Health, Vinka Kojdinović, Senior Adviser at the Ministry of Health, Marija Matić, Junior Advisor at the Ministry of Health, Mirjana Kontic, Junior Advisor at the Ministry of Health, Aniko Muškinja-Hajnrich, State Secretary at the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, Sanja Jasarevic-Kužić, Assistant Minister of Human and Minority Rights. We move to the 16th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC SELF (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Nikola Krpić, Aleksandar Martinović and joint MPs Zarko Korać, Vesna Pešić and Kenan Hajdarevic. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Health and Family. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Krpić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Korać, Vesna Pesic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Lightfoot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26362	Wait a minute, are we talking about Article 12? Excuse me, please, what about Mr. Martinovic's amendment? Mr. Momchilov was pressing the key. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26363	Please, I've read it. You're answering by what amendment? (Paja Momchilov: Mr. Martinović's amendment. You know, since she's been asking and looking, no problem, I'll give you my word, but I've asked if anyone wants a word. He gave the amendment to the title of the law. Then we go back a little bit, no problem. You need to concentrate when the session begins. Mr. Momchilov, you have your word, please, let's cut the story short.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26364	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I've been pressing this key and I've been answering, I've been turning on my word. Why didn't you register me? I don't understand. It's possible there's some kind of system error, it's possible that there may be a lack of attention, but I'm going to say a few words about this amendment. I've previously been obliged to present a few facts. You see, the Health Committee discussed this set of five laws in an eight-hour debate and caused some strange reactions in parliament. It's said to be unusual and it may not be appropriate when we have an emergency debate. When you divide five laws into eight hours, then it turns out that about an hour and 40 minutes each of these laws has been held. I think it's some kind of minimum that had to be handled in connection with this law. However, what is very important, when we had a discussion on the Committee in particular, we did not have a Minister of Resistance present. To make things worse, we didn't even have an authorized face in front of the government. Therefore, we conducted a debate that was a deaf conversation, where the Ministry's representative and junior ministry officials read to us what was written as the government's position and as an answer. What I am obliged to say is that Mr Stantic, who represented the Ministry, was not in the matter and could not conduct a qualified debate with us. What is important, too, is how many of these legal proposals are unarranged evidence that we, as a committee on the government's application, have sent two amendments that are not ours, but were meant to correct harsh technical mistakes. The same situation took place this morning, where I received a call at 9.40 p.m. to call the board at the request of one-third of the MPs, which is quite legitimate, to make two more harsh, harsh errors of the IC's proposals of these laws. What I am obliged to say is that in taking views and answers it has been quite evident that we have been talking here in an inappropriate way with the Members of Parliament who have addressed the amendments. I am obliged to warn you that 119 amendments are addressed to five laws. Let's share it now. So that's twenty amendments to these significant laws. Is that something insane? Is that a sinister thing? Rate it yourself. There was a good intention to discuss these laws in a qualified and responsible way. However, the answers are outwitting, replacing the thesis, and what is even an unauthorized, harsh falsification of certain facts. We'll show that in an individual discussion. As far as Mr Martinovic's amendment is concerned, we simply do not view this law of public health as a law. We suggested that by changing the title to what it is, the resolution, someone might say a declaration. We have honored the government and the promoter, let it be called the resolution, let it have a little bit more meaning. Why? In this law, you have no norm, except for the standard that requires the Institute of Public Health to make plans in emergency situations. One of the only criminal provisions, in case these plans don't come through, then one particular punishment follows. Therefore, Mr. Martinovic suggested that this act that we received and that does not look like anything, by its content or by its form of law, be what it is. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26365	Excuse me, did you use the time of your authorised representative or your MP group, just so I know.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26366	I used two minutes of Mr. Martinovic, I also used for the next, if you please, his amendment for another two minutes, so of course I won't report on that second amendment to his. You're gonna tell me now if he can't do it. If he can't, then I used the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26367	You used your MP's time. MPs Zarko Korać, Vesna Pesic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 12th amendment together. Here you go, Mr. Korach.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26368	Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable Members of the People, we have already spoken about this law in principle, said – that this law does not really have the character of the law, it has no norm in itself, it does not really have any criminal provisions. It was a legal obligation taken by the Ministry of Health because Article 122 of Article 2 of the current Health Protection Act provides for the adoption of one law on public health. However, the law itself was written so that all health definitions were taken over from the Health Protection Act and the completion of the whole series of health provisions from various international documents. We don't mind that, but we don't see any use for this kind of law. So, of these five laws, in our opinion, this law has the least benefit for the citizens of Serbia because it is too general and is not clear what its real purpose is. To prove that, we do not think that he can make amendments essentially for his character, we have submitted an amendment in Article 12, just to give an example of how the law is drawn up. It is said here – the Minister responsible for Health Affairs, agreed with the Minister responsible for Labour Affairs, proposes or adopts certain programmes (for example, the national health protection programme for the working-active population, the programme for the protection of employees in a particular area). There's no way to determine if they're annual, multi-annual, and that's an example of how this law was written. That's why we said in the amendment – we ask that it be specified, that it has to be once a year. We prefer to demonstrate the character of this law – that it is all indeterminate, plans are made, what are these plans, how long they last, it is completely unclear here. We tried to make it clear here that this obligation was annual and that it had to be brought once a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26369	Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Korać, Vesna Pesic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go, Mr. Korach.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26370	Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, look again at how the law is drawn up. The following is said here - the law states that public health every two years delivers a report to the Public Health Institute, established for the territory of the Republic, and this is delivering a five-year report to the Ministry. We don't understand why they give two-year-olds, and the ministry is delivered five-year-olds. Of course, we are "five-year-old" suggesting to replace the word "two-year-old", as public health every two years delivers its report to the Public Health Institute of the Republic of Serbia and is obliged every two years to submit such a report. Why should he endure every five years, and these branches, as I would say, every two years. It's completely unclear to us the logic of this. I would like to see some explanation of the lawmaker and the legislator – what makes the difference here and why is it not three, four, six, eight or 15 years, or what is the logic? I have to say, we're concerned about this kind of writing public health law, because it seems to us that one mistake in the concept has been subdued here. The Law on Public Health would have to be practically a basic law – to define what public health is in a concrete way, what are the objectives not only of the Health Protection Act, but of the public health law, that is, what is the weight of our Republic? What is the quality of public health? What are the standards for public health? What are the procedures to monitor very closely the state of public health in the Republic of Serbia, which is highly endangered in certain areas of health? It seems to us that this law is first and foremost understood as one legal obligation. He's written in one general way. I understand colleagues who say it's more like a public health declaration. Once again, this is an example where we tried to specify and demonstrate inconsistency, we no longer tolerated the amendments, because we didn't see the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26371	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic tabled an amendment to Articles 23 and 24. It's a bill of law. Mr. Paja Momchilov wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26372	As we pointed out, this is a completely messy and chaotic law. Now I ask the authorising officer to explain to me here – what definition of public health is valid? If you look at the definition on page 2 in point 12, you will see one definition – public health is a social activity that seeks to improve health, extend life and improve the quality of life of the total population, and by promoting health, disease prevention and other forms. What “other forms ”? What other forms? Explain that to me first. Furthermore, if you look at the explanation, then you will see in an explanation a completely different definition, which has been taken over from the Health Protection Act. Make up your mind what definition is valid. I can't have two definitions in the same legal proposal, although this isn't the law in the right sense of words. What we are sure to say is, if you follow the explanation, you can see that the law was written by one person, and the explanation of another who has no connection, or explanation has nothing to do with what you find in the text of the bill itself. Therefore, if the well-being of a country, people, is the goal of good health policy, then the quality of life is the measure of that well-being, and surely health is one of the most important components – it is not seen in this law. Therefore, this law should be withdrawn this chaotic. I'm asking the promoter what definition is valid? I ask the promoter another thing – what does "other forms" mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26373	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26374	Article 100(1) Rules of Procedure. During yesterday's afternoon debate on a set of laws in the field of environmental protection, I said the following words, as a stenogram: “This kind of thing and a few similar things, we wanted to say this on the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, when giving the Committee's position on this law, but Mr. Minister, you know that this committee has not been maintained. ” After the discussion of the amendment was concluded, I received the following answer from the chairman: “I ask you not to be false and that you are not misleading the public about the work of the Committee and the working bodies of the National Assembly. ” So, I just said that the Committee did not hold its session when considering the law in principle, not entering into the motives of not maintaining the Committee, and that was my remark, saying that we were unable to keep that session apart from our opinions. So in no way did I deceive the public, nor did I lead the public astray. Therefore, the explanation of the Madam Chairman is completely incorrect and I ask that the Assembly be made known in the voting day about this breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26375	Mr. MP, the MP has the right to orally point to a breach in the procedure of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, if he considers that it does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way and immediately after the infringement has been done. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, because you're not talking about something that's possibly done today, ever since we started working, and that would be the possibility you could have used. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 17th point of the agenda: – Proposal FOR A LAW ON TRANSFUZIOLOČE ACTIVITY (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Dušanka Plečević, Nikola Krpić, Vjerica Radeta, Paja Momčiov and Zoran Krasić on the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. National MP Nikola Krpic, at the meeting of the Committee on Health and Family, withdrew the amendments he submitted to Articles 5 and 6. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mrs. Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26376	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1, in part of the basic provision, which explains what this law in the area of transfusiological activity is governed by, so that the words "supply" are added to "and" after the word "supply". This whole attitude should read as follows: 'Transfusion activity, within the meaning of this law, includes planning, collection, testing, blood processing and blood components regardless of their purpose, as well as storage, management, distribution, supply, release and use of blood and blood components intended for transfusions (hereinafter: transfusion activity). '"I intervened here with the word "and the use of blood." This amendment significantly complements the content of the transfusion activity already listed in Articles 23, 24, 25 and 26 of this bill and I will now read it. Article 23: A competent doctor must inform the recipient of blood or blood components before receiving blood (i.e., blood intake) of all the consequences of receiving blood or blood components in order to make a decision to agree to the proposed medical measure or not to agree. The recipient of blood must, before receiving blood (meaning still to be referred to as blood) or blood component, confirm in writing that he has been informed of blood and blood components, as well as of all the consequences and that it gives consent. The consent of the recipient of the blood referred to in Article 2 shall be given in writing. I'll also use the time of the parliamentary group. The recipient of blood consent to receiving blood or blood components may recall orally until its implementation begins. The competent doctor of medicine is required that the withdrawal of the blood-receiver from Section 4 of this article be determined in the medical documentation of the blood-receiver. The recipient of blood has the right to designate a person who will be informed on his behalf of all the consequences of receiving blood (meaning, still talking about receiving blood) or the components of blood and to give consent on his behalf, in case he is unable to make a decision, etc. However, you say in article 25: A blood recipient who is unconscious, or for other reasons is unable to give consent, urgent blood and blood components can also be taken without the consent of the blood recipient, based on the opinion of the competent doctor of medicine who provides emergency medical attention. If that is true, for the above examples I have read in Article 23, how will you give notice to a blood-received recipient who is unconscious and how will he give you consent to this medical measure? In countries surrounded by the law on transfusiological activity, there is a part that speaks of the use of blood, as is the case with Montenegrin law. You have given reasons why this amendment is not accepted, so you said it was because the concept of transfusiological activity within the meaning of the bill is in line with the provisions of Directive 2002/98 of the European Community, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 January 2003 on the establishment of standards of quality and safety for the collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human blood and blood components. Thus, this bill does not regulate the area of application of blood, i.e. indications for receiving blood or blood components are not determined, but only the procedure and giving consent. The law only has legal regulations, it's clear, it gives no indication, it's not expected of this law, it's just a matter of work. Since the bill does not determine the area of application of blood, as you say in an explanation for not accepting this amendment, then the title of this law is not adequate, and the law on the collection of blood and blood derivatives or the law on the provision of blood, not the law on transfusiological activity, because one legal act cannot narrow down the content of a clearly defined professional concept such as transfusiological activity. I'm glad Mr. Dulic is here and I hope he accepts some of our amendments, but he's not interested in our story, so it's illusory to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26377	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26378	I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The bill, which speaks of providing conditions for supplying the population with enough quality and safety blood and blood components. In Article 3(3), you say that this is achieved by creating conditions for raising the awareness of the population of the need for blood and blood components. With my amendment, I proposed a change so that this point 3 would read - promotional measures and education of the population, in order to achieve motivation for blood and blood components. He believes that "the raising of awareness of the population" is not appropriate for the legislator's intention to disrupt more people for voluntary blood donation, because the awareness of voluntary blood giving exists in every man, regardless of his cultural, educational, sociological and other reasons, other than possibly religious. However, I think the problem is how the bill promoter interferes with people for voluntary blood donation. You will find it difficult to do that, even with voluntary blood donors, whose objections and suggestions you have failed to respect and which you have completely disproved from this law. In your explanation, at the end of this bill, you say the reasons for the adoption of this law are that you intend to coordinate measures and activities to strengthen voluntary giving, which is the cornerstone of blood safety. However, where is this stone the foundation of this law? You didn't install it into this structure called the Bill on Transfusion Activity. Raising awareness is an ordinary flossula, which means nothing unless there's an explanation of what's meant by that. To me, raising awareness is to take a series of promotional and educational measures to motivate the population to volunteer for blood.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26379	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26380	I have proposed that Article 8 be amended and that it reads: a health care institution, i.e. a health institution for part of a medical institution where transfusiological activity is carried out in the Health Institute Network Plan, may be authorised to perform transfusiological activities, i.e. certain transfusiological activities if it meets the conditions regarding staff, space and equipment for transfusiological activity. Closer conditions regarding staff, equipment and space for transfusiological activity are prescribed by the Minister of Health (hereinafter referred to as the Minister), on a proposal from the expert commission on transfusiological action. My intervention was in this sense where I added these words - to the proposal of the expert commission on transfusiological action. This achieves a greater clarity of this article, as there is a need to have an expert opinion based on academic and professional qualifications on profession norms. In the proposal for a law on transfusiological activity in Article 1, you said that the supervision of the performance of these activities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the affairs of the State Administration of Biomedicine, which is being educated in accordance with the proposed organ transplant law. However, in this Biomedicine Authority, you provided for one of the three assistant directors to be in charge of the transfusiological activity area, which will hire some external experts, domestic and foreign experts, with compensation. In an explanation for not accepting the amendments, you said that the amendment is not accepted 'cause the provisions of the bill do not provide for the education of the expert commission for transfusiological work, as well as its composition, tasks and mode of work. Namely, the provisions of Article 158. The Health Protection Act is educated by the Republic Expert Commissions, which provide professional opinions and opinions in the process of developing sublegal acts, and we do not feel that there is a need to educate a special expert commission on transfusiological activity. We note that, in accordance with the Health Protection Act, the Republic Expert Commission on Transfusionology is already educated. Reference health institutions, professional associations, chambers, etc. will also be involved in the procedure for the adoption of sublegislative acts.’ Why, then, is this already educated Republic think tank of transfusiology not engaged in the Department of Medicine, but a list of external associates or experts, domestic and foreign experts is made up, of course, with compensation? That's my question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26381	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26382	The amendment I submitted to Article 8 refers to the principled position of the SRS that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must be respected. In Article 136(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The constitution is said to be the affairs of the state administration carried out by the ministries and other state administration bodies laid down by law. We have tried from law to law to convince both the assembly majority and the minister that the Law on State Administration in this part does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and we have submitted dozens of amendments to the same content, and we will do so in the future by doing so in every law where anyone knows how many times this is mentioned we only once submit the amendment, primarily for the purpose of the permanent preservation of stenographic notes and for the fact that we really advocate that any law, any decision, any act of any state body must be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is unclear why so far the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not understood, it is not good even if you have a good law, it is not good for it to have such a stain that at any time someone who thinks of any such provision can bring you down before the Constitutional Court. That's why it would be good for you from the Ministry to consider and suggest that Mr Oliver Dulic accept this on behalf of the Ministry. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, within this time, so I don't answer the Rules of Procedure, just to ask if Mr. Dulic will be here, because we don't have a real minister, please, either interrupt the session or call him back because it's irresponsible. We haven't intervened what he's here, the man's a doctor, he'll understand at least the terminology, but then let him sit down, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26383	Mr. Dulic is here on behalf of the government, he just came out for a moment, he'll be back. His associates are closely following everything the MPs say. Well, you know, he's a man, he can come out and he'll come back. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26384	I have submitted an amendment to Article 14, in order to delete point 4. This member speaks of the responsibility of the responsible transfusiologist. Point 4) reads - to carry out continuous training of healthcare professionals and health associates performing transfusiological work, i.e. certain transfusiological activities. I don't think this is a good thing, and for the continued education of healthcare professionals and health associates performing this activity, he must be the director of a health care facility. He appoints a responsible transfusiologist, it is specified by Article 13 of this bill, and the only director of the health institution in which this activity is carried out under the law has broad powers and the right to decide. However, a transfusiologist should be responsible for the quality of transfusiological activity, record keeping, documentation, haemovigillance security, possible development of an education programme, but cannot be responsible for realisation, since this includes both financial resources and decisions on the adoption of a plan and programme of education, which is decided by the Director. I don't understand why you place your responsibility with the director of a medical institution on a responsible transfusiologist.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26385	The amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Here you go, Mrs. Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26386	I have also submitted an amendment to Article 16(2) to replace the word "valid" with the word "responsible". This word is a side and is replaced by our word that is suitable for what is meant to be said. If you have followed the European Commission's directives in writing this law, as you have said in your explanation for accepting this law, and used the word validated, then your word is calibrated, which follows behind it in this position of Article 2, Article 16, superfluous because it represents pleonasm. The said Directive provides for the definition of the word "qualification", which reads: validation or qualification in the case of equipment or the environment is to produce documented evidence which, with a high degree of security, provides assurances that certain processes, standard operating procedures, rules on how something is carried out technically, equipment or environments, consistently gives a product that meets pre-defined specifications and quality characteristics. The process is validated in order to assess the impact of the system with a view to its effectiveness for the intended purpose. So a little of the European Commission's directive, a little bad translation or poor knowledge of Serbian language, has helped make this position look like this. So this kind of language-speak hybrid in law is illegal, because the law has to be clear and unequivocal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26387	The title above Articles 28 and 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusanka Plecevic. Here you go, Mrs. Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26388	I have submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 28 and 28 of Article 1 to change and to read, under d) The traceability of blood and blood components; the authorised transfusiological institution determines the measures to ensure that blood and blood components are collected, tested, processed, stored, distributed and issued on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in a way that allows reliable monitoring of the pathways of blood and blood derivatives from blood donors to blood recipients and vice versa. Article 28 points 1 to 5 states that blood monitoring is carried out from donors to recipients, so that the more adequate title - the traceability of blood and blood components, not hemovigilans, as you have given the bill, because Article 2 point 22) defines what the word hemovigilans means, so I will read it, is a short - hemovigillance is a series of organised surveillance procedures related to serious adverse events or a serious side effect in blood donors or blood recipients, as well as epidemiological monitoring of blood donors. I believe that this amendment in the title is adequate, because this is also the European Commission directive you are referring to, in particular Directive 2006/17, which has also given a definition of traceability, which is not in this bill to explain the concepts and meanings of point 2) with other meanings. I will read that definition - traceability is the possibility of locating tissue identification, i.e. cells at each stage of getting, through processing, testing and storage to the recipient or discarding, which includes the possibility of identifying the donor and the tissue bank or the production facility receiving, processing or storage of tissues, or cells, as well as the possibility of identifying the recipient, or recipients in a health institution, where tissues, or cells are transplanted to the recipient, or recipients. Traceability also implies the ability to locate and identify all relevant data related to products and materials that come into contact with tissues and cells. So I find this change of title appropriate and there's no reason to reject this amendment of mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26389	Thank you. The title above Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. Here you go, Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26390	We're having a really deaf conversation here. No one's answering us. We point to cardinal mistakes and things that can't stand here. We read you the definitions, we level with what's written here, and we keep quiet here. Please, you heard what hemovigilance is. Hemovigilans include reporting unwanted effects that can cause blood and blood derivatives to potentially cause a whole set of procedures to ensure that this can be done. Look what they're writing here. This is heavy ignorance. No one's responding. This is illegal. Please, give the authorized representative here. I highly appreciate Mr. Dulic. He's a doctor, he can understand and let us respond to these key remarks. Serbian law is not the law of the original human community. The Serbian law must be of health, a law that follows the traditions of a good and organised health service. This is unauthorized what you're doing. I want an answer concrete. The definitions are read, answer what is not true here, not what is respected in our response, outwitted and replaced by the thesis stories of what is not true. Please respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26391	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Radeta Verica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26392	counterpart Zoran Krasic has proposed an amendment that is purely legal-technical in nature, and this time I am truly convinced that anyone from the government of the Republic of Serbia is here to accept this amendment. The government said in the position of the 1st member - blood and blood components should not be imported or exported from the Republic of Serbia. This is neither language nor legal-technically possible. Krasic said - it is forbidden to import and export blood and blood components to the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. But really, what Momchiel's colleague said is pointless to discuss and explain to us, we have no one to talk to, because there's no one here to accept this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26393	The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Here you go, Mrs. Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26394	Article 42 is talking about the promotion of blood and blood components. In view of the first article, you say that the promotion of blood and blood components in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is being conducted by the Institute of Blood Transfusion and the Red Cross of Serbia. In point 2, you say that promotional activities under Article 1 must be continuous and consistent with the needs for sufficient amounts of safe blood and blood components in the territory of the Republic of Serbia throughout the year. I propose that attitude 1 be changed and that the promotion of blood and blood components in the territory of the Republic of Serbia be carried out by the Institute, i.e. the Institute of Blood Transfusion, a medical institution in which transfusion works, the Red Cross, as well as registered associations of voluntary blood donors. In public health law, you promote a public health strategy in all policies, i.e. in all sectors of life, but this is not seen in the proposal for this law, or you exclude civil society, which is anti-European, concerns the Association of Voluntary Blood Givers that I have proposed with this amendment. In areas where there are no blood transfusion institutes, existing health institutions that perform this activity are promoting voluntary blood donation together with the Red Cross and the Association of Voluntary Blood Givers. You, in your reasons for not accepting, say - the said laws provide for the Red Cross of Serbia to popularise voluntary blood donation as a public authority and in collaboration with services and health institutions for blood transfusions, etc. It's the same thing I'm proposing by amendment, it's the only thing that should be in that article. You've already said that in your explanation, but it doesn't stand in this article. In addition, I consider it desirable, not only the Association of Voluntary Blood Givers, but every citizen can promote voluntary blood donation, as it is a human gesture of the highest importance for the health of all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26395	Two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, by Professor Zarko Korac and MP Milan Dimitrijevic, were advertised. First, Žarko Korach.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26396	I'm advertising members 87 and 195. I have to say, it's about very important laws. We don't have a Minister of Resort. The government has appointed a minister who is not resolute, but is a doctor by profession. We have now received a notice from the government, we have just been delivered, that another minister should attend the debate, that is Minister Svetozar Ciplic, I assume, because of certain ethical and moral dilemmas that at least three of these laws proposed cause during the transplant and during out-of-body fertilisation. It's a very bizarre situation for us to sit here and none of them, of the two authorized aren't here, we saw one of them, so he's gone, and the other one's gone. These are still laws concerning the interests of Serbian citizens. If under Articles 87 and 195. The Rules of Procedure of the Government determines a representative, then I'm interested - what does this note here that we've received. He says - in this regard, we would like to inform you that for a representative of the Government in the National Assembly, when considering these draft laws, Svetozar Ciplic, the Minister of Human and Minority Rights, is also designated. And let me just say this -- because in the media it's constantly talking about the National Assembly, how we don't sit down, how we don't do things, we read in the paper where ministers fly. I see the poll -- how much are hotels, where are they, etc. You know what, it would be a turn to get some government work and the work of parliament, at least in the sense that those that the government has delegated and sitting here. I really apologize, I have to say this, I will be correct, we also had an example of a member of the government two days ago when the laws on education were discussed, Minister Obradovic was sitting all the time. One more thing, he made a huge effort to adopt some amendments. Everyone, and the layman, and for a long time in the Assembly, has been seen when the five laws were passed by a resolute ministry, or government, only two amendments submitted by party G 17 plus, none of the amendments submitted by any of the opposition were accepted. Now there are two options -- either it's the perfect laws, so MPs actually have nothing to say, or it's really about something else, to demonstrate here...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26397	Time, thank you. Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26398	Your Honor, I'm going to use this as an authorised representative by amendment. Since we are talking about the draft law on transfusions, I am obliged to remind the Serbian public of two things. The first fact I'm going to talk about is a statement by Resolute Minister Milosavljevic, who gave it in 2002 as a newly appointed minister in June, speaking of this problem of transfusions and blood shortages. That's the show that was on Radio B92 and one of those questions was: there's one acute problem, there's no blood, did you do something about it? The answer of the minister was the following: The problem of blood transfusions is important in our country, and therefore we are the country that has the highest consumption of blood derivatives when compared to all countries in the environment. We need a planned action of voluntary blood donation, we need a national long-term programme that will eliminate these direct problems. The problem with lack of blood is always present. Now it's one of those situations. It will be one of the problems for which we will form an expert group under the auspices of the Ministry's institution, which will analyse it from all possible aspects. There's this hint of helping solve problems, maybe reorganization. You've got that statement from the 2002 minister and you've got 2009 now. The minister, a five-minute minister, who is seven-and-a-half years minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, took seven and a half years to come up with a law, but when it comes to the law, when certain problems arise and when it comes to it, then simply the autism of Mr. Minister is amazing. None of these amendments have been accepted. Now I'm going to talk about another fact. When the Health Committee discussed in the principle of the Transfusion Act in June this year, when it was asked to the representatives of the ministry - when the law would enter the assembly procedure, we did not get that answer. Second, as members of the Health Committee, we received letters from willing blood donors. On June 12th 2009, a meeting was held at the NIS Business Centre in Novi Sad with the active participation of representatives of a large number of companies from Belgrade, Loznica, Kraljena, Čačka, Kostolac, Prokuplje, Nis, Kragujevac, Vršca, Kikinda, Zrenjanin, Zaječar, Subotica, Beceja and Novi Sad. When such a gathering is attended by so many representatives of voluntary blood donors, and when the minister does not respect these human people in his bill, but completely excludes them from the law, the law is not good. So that's the fate of this law, that's what we're talking about in public, and it's totally the opposite.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26399	Three minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative. Does anyone else want a word by amendment to article 42, which was submitted by Dušanka Plecevic? (No). The 45th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26400	This member speaks of the medical administration and which are its responsibilities and under point 6) says "brings good guides to practice in the areas of transfusiological activity", and I demand that it be changed and that it reads "brings guides to good practice in the area of transfusiological activity created by the expert commission for transfusiological action". We have provided for our amendments to the existence of this commission in the proposal for a organ transplant law in the work in which you propose the establishment of a biomedicine administration. One of the three assistant directors, with the help of external experts involved by this administration, will be responsible for transfusiological activities. The minister makes up a list of foreign experts from the country and abroad to whom the work belongs. We propose that an expert commission of at least five members be set up to make up eminent transfusiologists. The fact that this law does not provide for such a commission does not mean that it cannot be incorporated into the law and that this amendment is accepted. That's why they're putting up with the appointments. Since this is a bill of law, it is not a final text that is not immutable, because if it came to the Assembly, then it is a groundless debate and it would be adopted without discussion. I do not understand why this law does not involve this Republic expert transfusiology committee established by the Health Protection Act in the Biomedicine Administration, but the minister is making a list of external experts, meaning domestic and foreign, in which members of this Commission on Transfusion can and do not have to be involved, and these external experts are getting greater powers from the Commission itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26401	Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP, Paya Momchilov, submitted to the 45th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26402	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of the cardinal items that we highlight and which we believe we cannot leave without comment and without reply. There are no representatives here. We see Mr. Chiplic will be the one who should play, the icaban to be an authorised representative. You're not giving us any answers. What's this about? In addition to this hollow law, I will say later in three or four sentences that are hollows in this law and why it is bad, we have this situation that good manufacturing practice and good laboratory practice in the area of transfusiological activity prescribes the minister on a proposal for a new administration. He can't. Good manufacturing practice is a matter of profession and the profession can only prescribe something about the profession, what we do, how we do, what methods. It's something outrageous that this law is now trying to do. You say you want to go to Europe. You make fun of these solutions with European solutions. Europe says this - that, for specific areas of medicine that are significant, such as transplantation, transfusionology, regulatory bodies should be introduced, which should be based on four principles that unite profession, science, administration and inspection. You're putting science and professions in the administration here now. The administration is not in charge of the profession and science. If you want him to do the profession and science, then don't start the administration but start the institute. We don't mind. We made a good suggestion, we tried to get you out, so we said, for the matter of the profession and science, form a panel of experts, five people from each area, who will not be an advisory body, but who will create doctrine and who will follow the world's science and from this world science take what is applicable and what will be applied to us. The administration can't do that. You're giving up the agency principle, returning to the ministry something that can't be in the ministry. You're returning to the Ministry to follow science and profession. What are your answers, what are the illiterate settings of this law, that is not worth talking about. So we have to stop here. We're going to have a problem that this administration is described in three laws, in an incoherent way, everywhere different and everywhere that administration has jurisdiction in every area and you can't see how it's going to work. Therefore, if you are Europe, you should have set up an agency. After all, your obligation was, from projects spent seven and a half million for blood transfusions, which brought only evil to the transfusion plan, to establish a transfusion agency and you made a commitment to establish it. Here, how many years have passed, you haven't. Well, it was an opportunity to put her in the Medicines Agency, and you didn't do it. What you're going to do now is a retrograde solution that doesn't exist anywhere in this way, that the administration is dealing with this. What's blackest, we'll show it later, you say in one place in response that management is primarily in charge of professional affairs. So where on earth can you say that? Shall we read the management law, see what it is? One of the principles on which the administration rests is expertise, but expertise in the legal sphere, in interpreting, creating regulations, monitoring policies and other things. You've mixed everything up, this isn't allowed, and what kind of answers you have – easy and funny, it's a special story. I insist on the answers, I insist on an authorised representative, otherwise this is not worth it, this is dark, this is the twilight of parliamentaryism. Because of one man who cannot appear in this room, who was frightened by the threats of MPs from all opposition parties that he would be exposed to unpleasant questions, we now have a situation like this. At a time when you criticized that it was dark, when the minister went abroad, he gave the platform of his stay to verify the Health Committee. Where is this Mr. Minister? I'm abroad. It's more important to him abroad than five system laws. We work here day and night and we burn, and what we get in response is ignoring. We'll prove an inadmissible relationship with our amendments that goes into obnoxiousness.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26403	There are three minutes and 15 seconds left of your parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26404	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. I am sorry to have to sort of disturb the public with these formal discussions and discussions of my colleague Momchilov, but indeed the Government of the Republic of Serbia is worthy of the dignity of the National Assembly in the most harsh way possible. I would like to remind you that two days ago through our amendments, we convinced Minister Dulic, as competent for the topics that were then on the agenda, to change the title of the law, not to talk further about amendments and certain members. It's really inadmissible and, please, colleagues intervened. I know, Mrs. Comic, that you want to preserve the dignity of this House, but make it concrete. We've been discussing these issues for 37 minutes without the minister present. The special story is that Mr. Ciplic, who is competent for the last item of the agenda, will continue to appear, where we will discuss amendments, but on the subject of these laws in the field of medicine, it is amazing that you have allowed it, just because Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic, as Mr. Momchilov said, is afraid of meeting with the MPs, of this sort of screaming. One is a principle debate, and the other is when concrete questions are expected to be asked through amendments, and concrete answers are expected from responsible ministers. But that's his problem and that's the problem with the government of the Republic of Serbia. So please, Mrs. Comic...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26405	Two minutes. The time to highlight the breach of the Rules of Procedure has been used. There's no breach of Article 104. Today's session shall run in accordance with the members of the Rules of Procedure, which shall be prescribed or attended by the competent minister of law who is on the agenda or by the Government of Power. Please don't throw it away if you want to hear the explanation. If you do not want to hear the explanation, we can break the Rules of Procedure together, and until then I ask you to respect those members of the Rules of Procedure which you call for to be violated by others. So, the government empowers a representative. It is the will of the MPs whether they will qualify or disqualify the representative the government has authorized. The job of those who take care of the agenda and who takes care of the order in the assembly session is that the Government fulfils its obligation under the Rules of Procedure, which is that the proposing authority. Every authorised representative or minister who has the law in the Assembly is obliged to be, but also has the right to shorter and longer breaks during the assembly session, as all other participants do during the session. All relevant information for the law will certainly be transmitted and will be respected if deemed necessary. Please, I warn you and the People's Messenger, Pai Momchilov, to refrain from violating the Rules of Procedure and from giving opinions to anyone here to be afraid of anything. You can qualify within the Rules of Procedure for the work, speech, work of ministers. To claim that someone is afraid of something is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, because you cannot know the emotional state of the minister or any other participant in the session, and I ask you to refrain from doing so in the future. Anyone else want a word? The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26406	Mrs. Comic, perhaps no one is afraid of anyone and no one has any objection to the minister. He is an ideal minister all these nine years, but you do not replace the thesis for the sake of Serbia's public. It is not a fundamental problem whether Tomica Milosavljevic is afraid to meet with the MPs and it is no problem for the MP to say so. We don't mean anyone physically...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26407	Yes, the People's Parliament. I warned you not to do that. This is a violation of a member of the Rules of Procedure that prescribes a way of treating persons who are involved in the session of the Assembly. I'm warning you twice now. You can't say that someone's been threatened and anyone's afraid of anyone here. Please take care of the spoken public word. Keep going, these 12 seconds will be extended to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26408	Mrs. Komic, first of all, Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic is not a participant in the work of this parliament and I think it is clear to everyone. Secondly, no one threatened him, and don't make such insinuations against the MPs of the SRS express themselves. We're talking about whether he's afraid of professional communication between Mr. Momchilov and him. I was going to say something else. On the basis of Article 195 - the right and duty to represent the Government in the National Assembly, the Prime Minister shall have all issues under its jurisdiction when considering. The second point is said – the government determines members who represent it on certain issues, etc. That's not controversial. With your two- or three-minute debate from that place, you are trying to deceive the public of Serbia by explaining how this is all in line with the Rules of Procedure, how we are doing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We're not working, we've been working for 43 minutes without a government official present. Twenty amendments have passed in the meantime. Maybe the minister would take half of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26409	Two minutes. Thank you. The remarks you point out are that you want to say that a member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm telling you it's not. You want to express your dissatisfaction that no authorised representative is present in the O.R. at the moment. No member of the Rules of Procedure has been defined. That's why I explained to you that every proposing representative, including the minister who's authorized, has the right to a shorter and longer break. The exception to full sitting and attending during the session was Minister Nebojsa Bradic and none other.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26410	The Honorable Chairman, to be clear, I'm advertising Article 104 and 27. You're imputing me to violate the Rules of Procedure. Dear lady, facts and arguments, on the basis of the previous developments in the debate that was led in this House, I express my views. If you'll excuse me, I'm a thinking man. If you forbid me to think, I don't insult anyone, I simply find that the minister who is at the head of an important resort, and let in the assembly of five important system laws, is obliged to be present. That's the least of it. Maybe you think differently. I don't mind, but I have the right to state my position. What you're trying to say is that I'm being inappropriate, don't do it. There's no need. Maybe you don't understand these laws. You're saying it's now. This moment lasts 45 minutes. If there's a moment and we understand, there's a man of physiological need, health problems, and that's fine. But this is going on, ma'am. What's even scarier is when Mr. Dulic's replacement, who's gone, who's on his way, then we'll have a situation completely incompetent and it's my duty to say it again. You might think Mr. Chiplic is an expert on medical matters, I don't mind, and I won't say that you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, I won't think of him. You know, Mrs. Comic, there is a saying in the Serbian people – it is necessary to learn to keep quiet in order to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26411	National MP, there is no violation of article 104, and I will refer you to a stenogram and read what you have said when I warned you that you cannot threaten anyone, that someone is afraid and that it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, since it is a description of someone else's emotional state. I didn't impute you anything. I told you you couldn't break the Rules of Procedure, with a warning. If you feel that a minister is incompetent, it is your right and you can express it whenever you want, but you can't, in the context of seeking a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, abuse the right. That's what you've done at the moment, as you normally do when you're looking for words based on article 100, quite natural MPs are trying to abuse the right they've been given. The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26412	I am reporting on the basis of Article 27, point 3. Please, Mrs. Comic, explain to me this legal impolitely what member of our Rules of Procedure says that every minister has the right to be dismissed from the session in the course of the day longer or shorter, as an authorised representative. The most beautiful thing I ask you to do is learn from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26413	Of course it doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure, as it doesn't say, it doesn't have to sit all the time for the session. I'm talking about practice. Please read a stenogram on the course of the exchange of explanations that I am obliged to give and your emphasis on the remarks of the Rules of Procedure. Predictives happen, just to make a credible argument that you're being overlooked. I'll remind you of the situation the other day when you claimed to have received your word looking for a replica. It's clear from the insight into the stenogram that you're wrong. The practice is that the chairman does not ask for an apology and the practice is that the chairman does not refer the MP to a careful reading of the Rules of Procedure, because it is a practice that the course of the session takes place in the spirit of good dialogue. When I say that the Government has fulfilled all its rules of procedure of appointment and notification of the National Assembly of authorised representatives, it is done. Ministers' behaviour is available to comment on all MPs as long as MPs do so within the prescribed Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. MP Zarko Korac, he wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26414	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, I would use my time as an authorised representative. (The Faith of Radeta: I've reported to the Rules of Procedure. I'd just like to say... (President: MP Zarko Korać has a word, please. I just wanted to say that my remarks concerned the interests of all Serbian citizens. It is important laws that regulate at least four of these laws and regulate very important areas. The first is principled and general, and the other four are very important. Indeed, it is a very specific area and to be clear, it is the laws in the area of health that require and expert discussion. All MPs have the exact same right to debate and indeed, and I respect the Secretary of State, we are talking about a political debate here. It is truly unusual that we do not have a resolute minister first, and then a minister who is a doctor comes by the profession and is not resolute, and then he leaves, and now he is proposed who is neither a doctor nor a resort doctor. He has some touching points, moral and ethical issues of organ transplantation, artificial insemination. This is one situation that puts Serbian citizens in an unequal position, because we are making amendments, we are talking about the law, and there is practically no one to answer us. Serbian citizens have the right to know, when the ministry has proposed laws, MPs have the right to then expect it to be the ministry, or authorised representatives, and in this case should be the health minister, respond or give their opinion, negatively, positively, and say what it thinks. Otherwise, we speak practically empty, and we have no answer to what we are talking about. It is, however, an unusual situation for the entire set of amendments that have been given, I repeat, I say again, to adopt two amendments set by his party G17 plus. It's really a bit unique, either our amendments are so bad or the laws are so perfect. It shows one attitude that is not good. That's not a good attitude. Whoever the Minister of Health is, from the SRS on, I'll still, as they say, be it the Romans, read the law in good faith, see what's written in the laws, so I'll either agree or disagree. So for me, this is an example, when a man is an authorised representative, he is obliged to sit in this room because he defends the interests of the government. You know what, it's nice to be the minister to write that in your biography. I was sitting in the O.R. as Deputy Prime Minister and the blackest insult I've ever heard from my colleagues on the left, so I sat down, because it's a job I have to get used to working for. Someone's criticizing me, someone's saying this, someone's saying that, but it's my duty to sit down, listen and defend what I suggested. I have to say that what I don't like about this kind of work, it's said, the assembly is inefficient, these are cardinally important laws, and we don't have anyone by the government to answer those questions and that's not right. Just this, I cited the example of the second minister from that same government who sat there all day, sat patiently, a man came out maybe two or three times in two minutes, and gave very correct answers to the MPs' remarks. Although it's a party that isn't close to me at all, but I have to say that this man acted right here and showed how this job should be done. That's it. I have used in a strange way perhaps part of the time that I have planned for me as an authorised representative, but I must say that I do not like this way of work and I think that the citizens of Serbia are the most lost here, and we are all citizens of Serbia. I'd like the Resort Minister to answer some important questions here, you'll see questions will come up on some of these laws. After all, we'll pass laws that aren't right or they might miss something, and then we'll rub our heads off what we've done. It's not a good way. For the very end of this, we will advocate as a parliamentary group that in the next Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly it says that the laws are withdrawn from the procedure if the resolution minister is not there. Excuse me, if he can't attend, then there's no need to debate it, delay it, withdraw it, and when it's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26415	The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26416	Article 27 of point 1(2) is at issue. Mrs. Comic, unfortunately, I have to admit that you just convinced me that I'm a little better than you are. You, unfortunately, use it, I would say, abuse that possibility by sitting next to that button where you can rule out the MP whenever you think it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and you do it mostly past the Rules of Procedure. Use time while we're in direct transmission to lecture the MPs of the opposition to create some sort of public impression and to cloud the fact, what we're all saying today, that we are here discussing irregularly and that this is not in line with the Rules of Procedure. You also, Mrs. Komic, abused the Rules of Procedure, this member I said, when you told the contrary to the Rules of Procedure about some injury to the Rules of Procedure that happened three days ago. Of course, if I start talking about it now, you're going to shut me down, because you're going to say that we can't talk about it in the Rules of Procedure. I'll file a complaint, etc., that's the second part of the story and I won't challenge you to give me a warning. You yourself, just now, in that part, violated the Rules of Procedure. Neither can you, you're the People's Rules of Procedure, to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure that happened or didn't happen three days ago. Just one more reminder, Mrs. Comic, again I remind you that the minister must behave as well as the MPs participating in the debate, that it does not say anywhere that the minister can be away for as long as he wants, this time it is almost an hour at stake. That's what Mrs. Comić obliges you to do, Article 113. The Rules of Procedure you voted for, I didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26417	Two minutes. Thank you. There's no damage to article 27. The explanation you gave is not in line with the description of the injury that would eventually arise from the cited provision of Article 27, or you're right when you say I'm talking about the injury that occurred yesterday or the previous days. I made it clear, and again I refer you to a stenogram, that in evidence of credibility and arguments to closely follow what MPs say and what the Rules of Procedure says, I have stated that the case has already happened that I was right when I spoke about the application of the Rules of Procedure in the situation when you pointed out, very argumentated from your point of view, that you had the right to a replica, and I claimed that you did not. Quite difficult words, on the edge of the use and application of the Rules of Procedure, at that time is spoken of on your part. This is what I consider the right and obligation of all of us to listen to and what is on the edge of hard and untrue words, and it is often. That's why I didn't ask for an apology for the completely inappropriate qualifications that were given to me just because then and now, as I will in the future, strictly and strictly apply the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Once again, the government of the Republic of Serbia has fulfilled its business obligations to inform the National Assembly who is the authorised representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The behaviour of each individual minister and the arguments he makes is for the people's MPs to qualify as they wish as they respect the Rules of Procedure. The fact that no minister we've been informed of is currently not in the O.R. is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you not to ask for the right to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, illustrating that no minister is currently in the O.R., there is no business obligation to do so. People's MP Pai Momchilov wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26418	Of course, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I want to use the simple time of the parliamentary group and get back to the subject. And I can't help but realize and thank you for the broadness and tolerance you show to these monologues. I'd just like to ask you one thing and point out, to remind you that it's not the agenda of the Rules of Procedure, it's a set of five laws. Let's discuss the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26419	People's MP, please don't remind me of what part of the agenda is, I know very well, and a member must be in charge that MPs speak of the agenda. Your free choice and your right to receive your word under article 100 is currently being discussed here on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Paja Momchilov, from the place: No, Mrs. Comić...) ) Please return to the agenda in accordance with Articles 103, 104 and 101. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26420	Mrs. Comic, you keep insisting...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26421	These 12 seconds I used to interrupt you, which is my authority under Article 103 and explained why I'm talking about the Rules of Procedure, of course it won't be added in time to your parliamentary group that you have at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26422	Mrs. Komic, please, you often say - consult the minutes. Well, please consult. I didn't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I demand to waste the time of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. But I'm doing an introduction, self-critical, and I'm paying attention to my colleagues that we should be dealing with this, not dealing with irrelevant business, not dealing with problems that would come down to how much the devil can fit on top of a needle. And it's a great danger to get into it and to wear out that way of time that's going to go on TV. I just want to say what we tried to point out in this law, and I guess we didn't make it. This is general law and looks like a professional methodological instruction. The title doesn't quite match, it speaks of transfusiological activity and excludes blood giving, which is essence, right, and the whole law's purpose, in an artificial way is ripped out. That doesn't bother you. But watch out, when you talk about hemovigillance, she can't do it without giving. What's very dangerous is that there are 20 sublegal acts that need to be brought in and which the minister needs to bring in. It's an unprecedented centralization, a concentration of power in the hands of the minister. We're talking about decentralisation, we're talking about a profession that needs to be in charge, but the minister here is the one who decides on everything, which gives all the permits, which gives all the instructions, brings them. Of course, it's really funny when you tell us that this is harmonized with the right of the European Union. There is no EU law. You've seen the verdict in the court of the German SR, so those who know what it says, on the table and some pages, understand quite clearly what I'm talking about. Mrs. Comic, we really can't get back together when someone tells us, say, sentences like this when they say it. Here, I will read, waste time, just to make sure that Serbian citizens understand that this law is written – the authorised transfusiological institution determines the measures that ensure that blood and blood components are collected, tested, processed, stored, distributed and issued on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in a way that allows blood and components from the donor to the blood donor and "reversible". Who will explain to me what is “reversible from the recipient of blood ”? You give blood to the recipient, which he has received, and how do we now "return" the blood to this, and return it to whoever gave it to him? That's what it says here. We object against it. You defend, I don't mind, and say I'm insulting. Furthermore, look at this sentence in the same attitude, I'm wasting time again, but I have to - the authorised blood transfusion facility is required to provide a system to identify each individual blood intake and each individual blood unit and blood components, allowing complete monitoring of blood and blood components from the blood donor to the blood recipient or the blood component. What does this mean? For God's sake, do you understand? I'm asking to be explained. This Serbian brain doesn't understand. You know, Mrs. Comic, I don't have a particularly high opinion of myself. I think I'm average intelligence, and I finished school, this Serbian school, right, what it is, Mrs. Comic I don't understand. I'm looking for answers to that. You're telling me I'm malice, that I'm a man who's on the verge of insulting people. I'm sorry, I didn't. I'm simply being offered what it says and we can't vote for this upside down and everything that comes out of this. You don't respect voluntary blood donors, you don't respect the principles of blood donation based on anonymous, voluntary giving. It is no longer anonymous, relatives must come to give blood, so the principle of the World Health Organization has been undermined by these solutions and you do not have 4% of the donors – this is the result of these solutions offered by this law, which is undetermined and bad. Therefore, we cannot vote for him.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26423	Did you use the time of the authorised representative or the parliamentary group? Of the MP group, five minutes and 35 seconds, and five minutes for interrupting. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26424	I've reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you don't run sessions in the Rules of Procedure. When Mr. Momchilov informed you that he wanted to talk about the agenda point, you should have asked me why I was looking for a word. Now you could even tell me that I have no right to point out your violation of the Rules of Procedure, since it is not direct, there was one voice between you. I want to respond to what you said about the minister not having to attend the meetings and that it is a matter of the MPs to assess the minister based on how he behaves at the National Assembly session. I remind you of Article 87. The Rules of Procedure, which he says, shall be held at meetings of the National Assembly, alongside the MPs, shall be attended by members of the Government, by authorised representatives of other legislators and by the Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, as well as by other persons who are invited by the President of the National Assembly. National Assembly members may, at the invitation of the President, attend delegations, foreign heads of state... So this session is attended by an authorised representative of the legislator. This session is some kind of correlation between the government and the MPs. The government has proposed law. This law here explains, defends, listens to our suggestions, objections or praises by an authorised representative of the government. This debate only makes sense when a representative of the government can hear what we have to say about the bill. Otherwise, there's no point in discussing a law that is not attended by anyone who has to decide what of it he can accept and what not. Then we're just beating up empty straw here, Mrs. Comic. There is no session without MPs, and there is no session without the legislator's representative, both of them must be represented here. Whom are you proposing to me now? Sometimes you act just like a representative of the government, but you're not a representative of the government. Neither are these gentlemen who help the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26425	Two minutes, thank you, time to highlight the breach of the Rules of Procedure, has been used. The injury of the member you mentioned was already the subject of the procedure. You wouldn't be able to use your right to get a word based on Article 100 to talk again about Article 87's injury, and that's also defined in Article 100. For our mutual interest, if the government is controlled as executive power, I will repeat it once more. The course of the session is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The government has sent an authorised representative. National MPs who have objections that none of the authorised representatives are currently physically present in the hall, cannot find a foothold in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. That's all I'm explaining. Of course, it is a space for criticism, qualifications and all that the MPs want to say about the work of the government or the individual minister. What I have added in the explanation that there is no violation of Article 87, is that neither of the ministers nor of each other can be spoken with the violation of the members of the Rules of Procedure, who prescribe the way we address each other. What I have added in my explanation is that the government has failed to fulfil the business obligation, to send out who is the authorised representative, instead of the minister in charge of the law, then there would be a certain break, as it happened in cases where the government dared not respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Now that's not the case. Every minister has the right to use his breaks longer or shorter. Again, the only minister who sat in the hall the whole time, without a minute's break, was Nebojsa Bradic. All other ministers have used their right to the obligations they have, briefly, for the breaks they have, for consultations, for the media, for everything that is otherwise right and for all other participants in the session. The MPs who applied, they probably all signed up to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Tomislav Nikolic is not satisfied with the answer. People's MP, you probably missed the first part of my sentence. You had no right to mention the violation of article 87, but was mentioned in the search. It's possible, because you weren't present at the session, it happens. You can't get a word of this, MP, since there are already three reports that, by your suggestion, I'm now going to ask if they want to harm the Rules of Procedure or if they want to report for discussion. People's MP Zarko Korać, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, after the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you have a word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you see Mrs. Comic, to what extent the reasoning of the bill is unthinkable, why the law must be passed by emergency procedure. Commanding breach of Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Just to remind you, if these bill proposals don't pass by emergency procedure, the government will, in the opinion of the government, come, or there will be adverse consequences to people's lives and health, security...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26427	National MP, you cannot call for a violation of Article 164 because article 100 defines that you can call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure directly incurred during the session. What you want to talk about happened before the 16th of July. Thank you. Anyone else want to talk? National MP Srdjan Spasojevic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26428	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Members of 104th and 27th. I would like to say that in this House it has become a practice that the proposed laws do not defend ministers who practically create them. I'll remind you once again that a month ago, as a parliamentary question when Prime Minister Cvetkovic was here, I set up this problem and I was given the firm assurance that things like this would never happen again, he said that when he sat here. If the session of this House began an hour ago, is it possible to pause at this very moment? This is about a material injury, simply MPs do not have the opportunity to agree to the amendments submitted by the authorised ministers and to accept...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26429	People's MP, the injury you're talking about has already been the subject of debate, and you can't repeat the injury on the basis of article 100. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26430	Who told you that? You've abolished my right, like all other rights, you've told me I have no right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26431	You're right. Here, MP, you've signed up, on the panel is yours to want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. You don't want to?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26432	I didn't sign up. What are you looking at? He checked into the green pot, I didn't sign up at all. What you offer me when I won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26433	Then one of my colleagues showed up, or there was an error in the electronic system. You don't want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26434	We have so far been as a parliamentary group very correct. We haven't even questioned here the fact that of the five laws proposed by the emergency procedure, there is no reason for the globe to be adopted by the public health law by an emergency procedure. You have reason only for this law - in order to create conditions more urgently to ensure a high level of health protection for citizens, i.e. the establishment of a single legal framework for the exercise of public health activity, it is necessary that this law... Please, in order to make health care security conditions more urgent! It's like a joke, but we kept quiet and said okay. If someone asked for this debate to be under emergency procedure, to be done every weekend, to be done by 11 p.m., the minimum correctness is that whoever suggested is sitting in the O.R. and being able to hear our remarks. I have to say, as a man, I was interested in, I'm sorry, in this room are both doctors and people who work in health care, including people who have a reputation in this area, what one of them has to say. I'm saying this first of all for the public. I totally understand what you're trying to say, that you're not responsible for it. Personally, I think there's something where the President of the Assembly is responsible. I'm sorry, the president of the Constitution is a different person in the state after the president of the state. Right now you are the vice president, but the President of the Assembly has the right to take a break and ask the person who's the author can come in at the given time and let us know? We have rights as representatives of the citizens who chose us to get that information. We didn't even get the information why he wasn't a resolute minister here, which would be some kind of elemental duty. I don't know where he is, I guess he's been stopped. I believe he'd be here in the O.R. if he could, but then there was a different way to figure out the agenda or adjust it to the possibilities for him to be here and respond to the observations made. I repeat it once again, and that's already said in others, this all makes sense if someone who's an authorised promoter, and there's why he's a resolute minister, he's got legal, large powers, he can accept something he's told, agree or respond, he can react, he can also pollute with us. Just like that. It's a parliamentary life. We are building parliamentaryism, Mrs. Comic, you know it well and I and you and all the people in this room who are currently sitting, and those who are not all citizens. We are establishing a proper parliamentaryism in Serbia after many years when parliamentaryism looked different and we are establishing some rules. It's just that I would never personally allow a debate like this to take place about something that I've done, and if I'm not here, it's kind of a sad moment and it's unserious, and it can't be used to exploit citizens' opinion whether these laws are good or not. Once again, all I can say is that this kind of thing wouldn't happen in any civilized country of the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26435	Three minutes was used by a time-authorized representative. National MP Zarko Korać, from the time of the authorised representative for three minutes. Thank you. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, to the approval of the MPs, I have to ask by the script if the representative of Proposer Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health, wants the final word? Of course he doesn't want to because he's not in the O.R. I hereby conclude the review of the proposal for a law on transfusiological activity in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 18th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON TRANSPLANTATION OF ORGANA (specificities) You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs: Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljevic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Milan Knezevic, Mileta Poscurica, Paja Momčev, Predrag Mijatović, Borisa Pelevic, Mićo Rogović, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Saša Maksimović, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Mašić, Ljiljana Miladinović, Jelena Budimirović and Vjerica Radet, as well as amendments submitted by the Committee on Health and Family. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Health and Family, as well as from the Government. Before the move to search the bill in particular, I remind you that the amendment was withdrawn by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic, who submitted to Article 51. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search in principle, pursuant to Article 142(3) of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26436	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 which reads - in Article 1(1) after the word "edits" are added the words "right to". I wanted the proposed amendment to regulate more precisely and more clearly the right to take organs or parts of organs from the deceased, which gave explicit consent before their death and personally signed a written consent to donate in case of death. I have the same attitude about taking organs and from a living donor if written consent is given. I believe that this would increase the number of cadaveric transplants, except in cases where family members oppose it, with the indisputable fact that a dead person changed his mind about his life. In this way it is easier to understand that it is not only about how to take organs, but also about the right to take organs, which is the basic problem of today's small number of cadaveric transplants. You rejected this amendment and wrote that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that there is no right to take organs or parts of organs from a living or dead person. If there was no right, then no one could be an organ donor. Law is not a natural right. We're talking about the legal code passed by the legislator. When we talk about the right to take organs, we do not question the volunteering of organs. Based on all this exposure, the government's argument is incorrect.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26437	Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26438	I have submitted an amendment to Article 9, in the work concerning the organisation of organ transplant operations, the position of the 3rd proposed member is changed and it is said - to carry out the tasks referred to in Article 1 of this Article in health institutions, the Director shall organise professional and qualified transplant operations. Item 3 of Article 9 reads - teams for transplants are organized to carry out the tasks set out in Article 1 of this Article in health institutions. The reasons for not accepting the amendments states, among other things, that the minister prescribes conditions that must be met by persons performing transplant operations, as well as transplant teams. We believe that my amendment suggests that the Director organises professional and qualified organ transplant teams in health institutions and that the director of the facility knows people who can be in transplant teams. The minister should prescribe regulation, as proposed by this law, but the composition of a team that will carry out specialised tasks in the field of organ transplantation should nevertheless be carried out by the Director, as he knows best the personnel and professional training of the doctors with whom he works. In your reasons for not accepting the amendments, you wrote that transplant teams must also be prescribed by means of a sublegal act. I would ask the minister, but since the minister is not here, I ask the authorised representative, who is also not here -- when will the sublegal acts that are very important for the transplant teams be prescribed, because they must be composed of professional and scientific workers?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26439	Anyone else want a word? If not, MEP Milan Knezevic has submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26440	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of Parliament's Forwards to Serbia, I have tabled an amendment to Article 10. That member refers to the issue of a licence. The amendment reads that after the words, the minister deletes the point, puts an end to it, and adds the words "in the prepared opinion of the Biomedicine Authority". So now the last position should be: conditions regarding space, equipment, staff, or transplant teams, as well as other conditions laid down in Article 1(2) of this Article are prescribed by the Minister in the attached opinion of the Biomedicine Administration. This transplant law establishes the Biomedicine Administration. We spoke in principle of how inadequate this expression is. But if there is already a Biomedicine Authority, surely it participates in issuing permits, evaluations, personnel, space and necessary equipment. In the refusal of amendments, the government states that it is understood that the Biomedicine Administration is part of the Ministry of Health and that, in this way, to bring it down, it participates in this. Still, we shouldn't in law say it's meant to be. And this addition to this attitude creates an obligation to obtain an opinion from the Biomedicine Administration. I would like to comment on something else, using the time of the parliamentary group. The absence of these ministers, in fact, once again and again, confirms on our part how unnecessary it was to pass these laws by an urgent procedure. They were so urgent that there were no representatives of the government that in some way these amendments were heard and that they responded appropriately. And then one statistical analysis. You see, on all these laws, on these five, 119 amendments have been filed. In doing so, 114 were submitted by the opposition, and five positions and two positions were adopted, no opposition. There's one question now. First, what's so small a percentage of the amendment accepted? Is it possible that so much of this law is perfect and there is no statistical probability that some of these amendments were not so good that they participated in repairing members of the law? And then only two accepted amendment positions. It's a great honor for colleagues from the post, but apparently there's an unequal relationship here and that all amendments to the opposition have been rejected. I would like to comment that all these laws in many parts, such as principles, transplant procedures, business organisations and all overlaps, so that members are textually identical, so we as a parliamentary group, along with amendments, have to, since one organ transplant law, where we have objections to the relevant members who are identical in the other cell and tissue transplant law. Since this amendment of mine has been rejected, I see later my colleagues will say, then they are also calling for other amendments, that an explanation for the refusal of these amendments has been given in an explanation for the refusal of this amendment. So much for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26441	Two minutes was used by the time available to the parliamentary group. Ambassador Miroslav Markicevic also answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26442	Your Honor, I've called to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Vice-Presidents, respected citizens of Serbia, you who watch this transmission and believe or do not believe what is happening in this National Assembly, I advertise Article 114. The Rules of Procedure which firstly states: The work of the National Assembly session is kept in record. Madam Vice President, from your presentation under the recent law, the record will say that you have spoken to the authorising officer, and he has not been present.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26443	People's MP, do you claim that the minutes of the assembly session are not being kept at this time?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26444	I'm saying it's going wrong based on your words in the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26445	Are you saying the record is being run wrong?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26447	I ask the Secretary of the National Assembly to initiate a procedure for the determination of the truthfulness of the minutes of the stenograms running the stenograph and to initiate a disciplinary procedure if a copy of the minutes is established at the session of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26448	Does that mean you give up your words or they won't enter the record?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26449	The charge of breaking the Rules of Procedure by keeping the record incorrect is one of the most serious charges that can be made during the session of the National Assembly. I'm obliged to initiate a procedure to establish the truth and to punish the one responsible for falsifying the record, because you're telling me he's a member of 114. The Rules of Procedure have been broken and the record is being kept incorrectly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26450	In two minutes' time, can I finish my report on the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26451	Of course you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26452	I'm very specific, Madam Vice President. You, and everything you say as chairman, I think it's going into the record, you've reached out to an authorised promoter who's not in the O.R. Everyone who's been here we see. That's what I advertised the injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26453	People's MP, I now warn you that you are harshly violating Article 104 and insulting the dignity of this National Assembly, as you will see in the stenogram that I have said that the MPs with approval will welcome me to ask if the word wants to be proposed by an outsider. Please don't throw away either you or we...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26454	How can someone who isn't in the O.R. get the word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26455	The right to receive a word on the basis of Article 100(1) and that if we seek for ourselves the rights given to us by the members of the Rules of Procedure, then we use this right with care and awareness of the power of our public word. I ask you not to speak falsely of what I say or to listen more carefully as I speak and explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26456	Can I finish with two minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26457	Of course you can, without lying.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26458	What you're saying, you think it's true. I also have the right to my truth, Madam President, and my eyes that aren't exactly in the bloom of youth...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26459	You have no right, MP, you have no right to mine and your truth. If I were to say during the session that the minister is not present, that you claim that the record says otherwise. Someone's gonna have to answer for that, and it's gonna have to be very serious. I thank you, and I ask you, next time, to use our right to Article 100 carefully, which gives us the right to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26460	I don't have the right for two minutes...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26461	I thank you, People's Parliament, and I warn you to use your right to speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26462	In accordance with my Rules of Procedure, I use...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26463	Do not use in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. National MP, you have a second warning to use your right to a word in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not to throw away, not to violate Article 104 and to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26464	This isn't the Hague Tribunal... What do you want, to take my money? Here's three grand. (Miroslav Markicevic stands up and puts money on the table. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26465	The MP behaves inappropriately, rudely, and I understand that someone who has a desire to share his position with the public and share with the MPs, oversteps all the boundaries of decency and violates everything he writes in the rules of conduct. (Miroslav Markicevic, from the post: This is not The Hague tribunal. )In addition to giving you a warning first, I also give you a second warning because of the harsh violation of order in the session of the National Assembly, and I inform all MPs that the promotions of violations of the Rules of Procedure will not be in this room. I'm bound by Article 27. Your inauguration that this is not the UN tribunal, but the National Assembly is inappropriate, rude and is a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is the National Assembly, which will respect members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is not a place to promote simplicity and pride in ignorance of the rules of procedure. Thank you. On Article 10, on which the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. Anybody else answer for a word? National MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26466	You have truly injured my dignity as the People's MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You punished the MP for telling you that this is not the UN tribunal, but this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So what else do you want...?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26467	People's MP, if you want to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, then I suggest you read article 100 carefully and see the rules by which you can get your word. The MP was not punished because he spoke and compared The Hague tribunal and the National Assembly session, the MP was punished after two warnings because he rudely violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, threw out of place, physically violated order in the National Assembly, threw money on the table of the Presidency, and acted inappropriately on what was required by each chairman to ensure order and peace in the National Assembly. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: This is your initiative. ) I refer you to article 100, do you and how can you get the word that you are talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure by any member? Anyone else want a word? (Tomislav Nikolic: You are looking for an incident. You have no more words. The MP's saying I'm looking for an incident. People's MP, I strictly and strictly apply the Rules of Procedure. Once shown the tolerance of the behaviour shown by MP Miroslav Markicevic gives the right and all other 249 MPs to behave in a similar manner, inappropriately, rudely and to tolerate the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Anyone else want a word by amendment to Article 10? Yeah. ) National MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26468	I have submitted an amendment to Article 10 to amend attitude 8 and reads: It is allowed that another form of health care, established in accordance with the law governing health care (hereinafter referred to as private practice), performs taking, transplantation, distribution, identification of conformity, or tissue typeing, or transplant operations, if it meets the conditions laid down by law. You did not accept this amendment for the reasons that Article 56(6). The Health Protection Act states that private practice cannot carry out health work in the fields of taking, keeping and transplanting organs and parts of organs. This coincides with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 86. One form of property, private practice, although it is the right guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, makes it impossible to carry out a part of health work in the area of organ transplants. This argument is based on discrimination against private practice. You further state, in your explanation, that private practice is a different form. I'd like an authorised representative to explain to me what this "other form" means? It associated me with a lower form of health work. Not only have you discriminated against private practice that would deal with organ transplants, but also all private practice, as well as citizens of Serbia. You sent them a message that private practice is a second-rate form of health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26469	Anyone else want a word? The People's Messenger of Pai Boys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26470	I'd like to explain a few things here, too. Principleally, what did we suggest? We have suggested that organ transplants can also be carried out in private-owned institutions. If you look at the world, America not to say, you're for Euro-Atlantic integration, there's most of the institutions in which this guy's private-owned operations are being performed. Next, if you're looking at Zagreb, you have a Mercury clinic. If you look at how much these transplants are done there, you'll understand. Why did we propose this? Just to avoid waiting lists infamous, to create the possibility that citizens can be treated in such institutions. What followed us as an answer is truly incomprehensible and offensive. It is said that our amendment is not accepted because Article 56 is Article 6. The Health Protection Act says that the work of organ collection and transplantation can only be carried out in public services. You say yourself that this is a lex specialis, if this law suggests otherwise, members of this law will apply. That's all we're suggesting, because it's just the cancer of the Serbian health care wound that's not including the private sector in the health care system. What's the score? Waiting lists. What's the score? Taking money to citizens in state institutions through the so-called non-standard services, based on which 27 billion dinars were charged in 2008. Look, the budget had a shortage, Serbia, when we discussed the rebalancing, 30 billion, and citizens in state institutions in an illegal and invisible way, it's not being reported anywhere, taking these funds. Therefore, the reason, he said, is the fact that private practice represents another form of performing health work in which only certain health activities are carried out, but given the lower complexity of the business done as such by a healthcare professional who is the founder of private practice. Now, let's make some sense. You don't allow private practice, and then you say, since we didn't allow it, then lower complex jobs are done, and that's one circulatory viciosus that's unauthorized and embarrassing. It's not a legal interpretation, it's an open hatred of the private sector, and even more terrible, it's based on the principles of private practice in the state institution, and I wouldn't talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26471	Two minutes and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. The 10th Amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26472	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12(1). The amendment reads - in Article 12, point 1 of the word "can" is replaced by the words "is required". This member speaks of the withdrawal of a licence for the work of a health institution for the performance of transplant operations and before the expiry of the period on which the authorisation has been issued unless it fulfils a series of conditions that you have laid down in the meantime and which you have explained to the points (1) to (5) of the first position of Article 12. The minister can withdraw his work permit. The minister shall be obliged to take the authorisation and to provide a decision within seven days on the withdrawal of the authorisation. Your reason for not accepting the amendment is completely ridiculous. We have suggested that the minister is required to withdraw his licence if irregularities are found to exist in points (1) to (5). We have not suggested that he be obliged to withdraw his license unless it is determined that there are irregularities in the work of these health institutions. Furthermore, in your explanation you stated that in the administrative process one of these conditions for withdrawal of the authorisation is determined. Sir, if you represent the Ministry, can you answer me how long the administrative procedure can take and how long it takes to establish in a proper manner the fulfilment of one of the conditions of this law, and in the meantime how many people will be killed if the professional supervision procedure determines that the health care institution is acting contrary to the law or that the quality of the process of taking, distribution and transplantation is below the established standard of quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26473	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26474	The proposal for a transplant law speaks of the coordinator's affairs. On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I have proposed an amendment to change and read in Article 15(7): "It is co-operating with the Republic's Ethics Committee and the ethical committees of health institutions in which organ transplants are carried out. “ In the area of transplant medicine, there are particularly possible ethical problems, which can occur when organ donations and transplants are made. Respect for human rights is not only ethical but also a legal obligation for all healthcare professionals. There should be an Ethics Committee in each health institution, especially in health institutions dealing with organ transplants. Patients should be shown how they can address the ethical committee. Co-operation between coordinators and the Ethics Committee is important in these health institutions. In an explanation for not accepting the amendment to Article 15, you stated that the coordinator should or may cooperate with the Ethics Committee. He is obliged to co-operate with the Ethics Committee and your explanation is to replace the subject. In the area of transplant medicine, there are particularly possible ethical problems that can occur when organ donations and transplants, and therefore this co-operation is very necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26475	The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26476	In the part of the proposed law on the process of transplanting, i.e. the volunteering of the organ, Article 18(1) reads: “The donation of the body is voluntary and without financial compensation, except for the compensation of the necessary costs. “ With the amendment, I suggest that Article 18 be changed to “the donation of organs is conscious, voluntary, and without financial compensation, except for the compensation of the necessary costs. “ Voluntaryness or expression of free will can be a subjective or emotionally colored thing. That is why it is necessary for a person to be kept conscious, both quantitative and quality, in order to have a preserved ability to reason when making such an important and difficult decision. Example – a person who is an alcoholic, a person who is located in a predeliiant or deliriant state or a pilloman has no preserved consciousness. In the government's explanation for the non-admission of the amendment, you stated that there was a written consent of a full-time person. I don't think written consent can be valid unless a person has a preserved consciousness.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26477	On the title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. Here you go, Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26478	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Secretary, welcome to the right time. That's how fate brings happiness to us, to the MPs, and I hope to you, to be present with an amendment that will probably be able to reach your consciousness and understand what we wanted to say. I'll read what the bill says. ‘The non-profit of the provision of transplant services. “ We’re dealing with Semantic problems, therefore, it’s close to you, not health problems, and what I’m saying is that in the Serbian-Croatian Dictionary, when you take the book 14, page 776 and 775, then you’ll see the inviolability, the noun, the noun, and the invincibility and the invincibility, and the advent that cannot be won, subdued and won, will be taken. If you literally translate into a dictionary, and I also have a Dictionary of the Mother of Serbs, which also says what integrity means, then it would be in translation: the impregnability of providing services regarding transplant and inability. What's wrong with me here? In general, this dictionary written by this law is bureaucratic. What does that bureaucratic language mean? Extensiveness, complexity, uncertainty and stereotyping. There may be neology, to get to it, but there's been contamination here. You're making neology, you're not going to do it, and you're going to see how you did it, I'm going to read it, and then you have a problem, or you don't know what that word means, and it's defined in the dictionary, or you don't know better words that you could use, or you have unconsciousness for another reason, which is that you're being fashionable for something you've seen somewhere, which is inadequately used. Please, what's the explanation? I'm standing here on purpose to see how our laws are written. It's not strictly a medical problem, but look. The law on health care of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. other laws governing the economy, as well as the financial system, in the part that regulates non-profit-based business, non-profit-based services are used. Also, this term is defined in the Serbian Language Dictionary and in the Serbian language Dictionary of the Mother of Serbs as an income that is made during a period of time, a material benefit that is obtained or achieved from some business of production or trade, profit, profit. Of course, the terms here are winning and winning. That's not what we're saying. What do you interpret about profit and gain? We accept you – about the invaluable and the invaluableness. When you don't know the Serbian language so much, don't replace the thesis that you're trying to do. It writes – non-profit on the sticks “Ledo ice cream”. I agree. If that's an inspiration, it's not good. There are better words in Serbian. I made a proposal to call it - a ban on commercialisation of transplant services. It can be better, the Serbian word to be used – the inability or ban on obtaining benefits for transplant services. You've had a million ways to say it, and you've used a word that completely twists meaning and tells us we're wrong. Madam President, I now appeal to you, this is the destruction of the dignity of the National Assembly. I can't deal with that. I'm looking for an answer. This kind of answer that we got by replacing thesis, where I get an explanation of what profit means and what profit means, is not what we point to and what we point to. This can't stand in Serbian law. Yes, but then it's the collapse of the system, then it's the collapse of legal norms, then it's a clear thing, someone's desire to create chaos here and that we no longer exist and that we're not a legal state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26479	The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26480	I have submitted an amendment to Article 22 which reads: in Article 22 paragraph 3 after the words - custody is deleted point and words are added – no later than 30 days. You did not accept the amendment with an explanation that written consent is usually given within a very short period of time. Here I ask Mr. Chiplic, since he is the only representative, which is the most frequent short term, i.e. that the 30-day deadline for giving consent to the custody organ is inappropriate organ transplants. However, this does not mean that the custody authority cannot give consent within a short period of time. The law must be precise and precise, because it cannot be extended indefinitely. Of course, the patient needs to get an organ in as short a time as possible, but we are also aware that most of the patients have been waiting for organ transplants for months, even years, and some never do. Do you know, Mr. Minister, that at this time in the Republic of Serbia, there are 1,600 people waiting for a kidney transplant, 800 people liver, no one knows the number for the heart? In Serbia, through the drama of uncertainty when and whether they will ever get an organ that means life to them passes on to thousands of people. This explanation of your amendment is incorrect and inextricable, because we wrote that it is no later than 30 days to be given to the custody authority, and you wrote within a very short time period, and you did not know how short it is, so you could now limit that time limit so that it would not be longer than 30 days, as often the practice shows.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26481	In accordance with Article 85(5), I would like to inform you that we will be working today after 18:00 hours, according to the agenda that will be on the agenda at that time, and that on Monday 27 July and on Tuesday 28 July 2009, we will be on direct transmission until 17.50 p.m. It'll be delayed later. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Miatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26482	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, although I'd rather be your minister of health instead and speak to him, no offense, I don't think you're competent for this matter, but what's there? Article 23 refers to the organ transplant and in paragraph 7, which I will read to you, says: 'Content, method and procedure of forming and managing the Republic waiting list and supplying data from authorised health institutions, criteria for putting on the Republic waiting list, conditions for determining the priorities of organ recipients and other issues of importance for forming and keeping the Republic waiting list is prescribed by the Minister. ''Just after the words of the minister, I suggest that it be stuck and words added - in the opinion of the Biomedicine Administration. The reason is because the Biomedicine Administration is directly involved in obtaining reports on the needs of transplant authorities and health institutions and the creation of a single republican waiting list. It is therefore logical that the procedures related to the procedure, as well as on the basis of the reports of the priorities identified for recipients, should be directly formed and delivered to the Minister for Verification and Publications. Since procedures will essentially take place in such a way, there is no need for the minister to commit himself to define the procedures in which a team of qualified experts from the Biomedicine Authority participates. The reasons for not accepting this amendment are the same as that given to Mr. Professor's amendment. Milan Knezevic, which is that it is unnecessary and that the minister will still deliver an opinion. You'll allow me one more thing, the adoption of the four laws we've passed everywhere appears only the minister. The prerogatives of the minister are really huge and I'm sorry that Mr. Minister isn't here, but as a doctor who works for 30 years in health care, I'd like to tell him that he's not in the business of organising a job, he's in the imperial government of health.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26483	National MP Borislav Pelevic submitted to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26484	Mr. Minister of Human and Minority Rights, the government's authorised representative in relation to the organ transplant law, I have submitted an amendment to Article 28, which I would like to define the responsibility of the Biomedicine Authority, which will give an opinion on the treatment of transplant bodies. The law has a solution to which the minister will take care of it, and I claim that the Biomedicine Administration employs experts who possess the rights and the appropriate knowledge provided for in the organ treatment on transplants. In addition, the Administration is considering all reports of health institutions, legal and natural persons, and assesses their equipment regarding the obligation to prevent any kind of risk related to the transfer of the disease to the transplant process, as reported by the minister. The Biomedicine Administration reports to the minister, so it is really logical, and I think it is necessary, that it formulate these actions rather than the minister. What you have responded to me in the rejection of this amendment, you have said that the answer is contained in the refusal to amend my colleague from SNS, Dr Milan Knezevic, and the explanation is as follows - the amendment is not accepted since the Biomedical Authority is part of the Ministry of Health, i.e. under Article 32(2). The State Administration Act, the minister directs the work of the body in its composition and brings regulations from its work. So, from such a generally defined government of the Minister over the body in the composition and from his right to bring regulations from the work of that body in the composition, you draw the right of the Minister to decide on the most concrete instructions regarding the transfer of organs in the transplant process. You say, too, consistent with Article 69. The draft law, the Biomedicine Administration, participates in the preparation of draft rules for the implementation of this law by the minister, in a way that professional attitudes will be incorporated into sublegal acts, and now a key thing, and without obtaining an official opinion from the Administration. So the principle views for you have more power just because they're signed by the Biomedicine Authority and you say you don't need to get an official opinion from the Administration. Now I can draw two conclusions from this refusal and this argument. Mr. Minister, if he is from G17, he can not only extend the work and work of a particular ministry to the highest possible and incompatible areas, but also have to be asked directly about the most concrete things that are in the power of the authorities within the ministry to which the minister is headed. Is the basic criterion for assessing and assessing what the ministry or law is leading, jurisdiction and nature of business, or is changing it from law to law and from ministry to ministry. Do citizens have the same treatment when there is some ambiguity in the law, very often completely left behind, or some hole in the law, that any interpretation will be able to be covered by an attitude, as you tell me in an explanation. No, I don't. At that time, the ministry wants to ask itself, so every open matter is brought and given a special opinion, and no opinions from any authority are used. The difference of this course is also the way the government stands behind a single minister when the law defends itself. We MPs get to talk about laws from the most diverse areas of life concerning Serbian citizens. We prepare ourselves for them according to our knowledge, abilities, and ways to make sure that we hear an opinion from professional people. As an economist on this law, I am speaking in principle about the inadmissibility of the minister to ask for everything and to skip one administration body in its composition, and I am not going to engage directly in what is not my jurisdiction, because that would be ridiculous. This government makes this home and MPs funny, if it tells us that the one who is on duty today in the government can come to defend any law that is being discussed here, which has not been the case recently, but, as many other bad practices, you are introducing it into this home. I find that inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26485	The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26486	Article 30 discusses the monitoring of serious side effects, as well as serious side effects in the transplant process. The amendment that I have proposed - in Article 30(4) after the word "unacceptable" is added to the words "and after the advice of the doctor". We believe that the competent doctor is obliged to give advice to the organ donor on possible side effects, as well as on serious side effects, unless his health is monitored in accordance with medical profession standards. Usually, as well as medical professions, the law states that if a patient does not accept, or refuses to intervene, and thus there is the possibility of jeopardizing his health or life, the medical advice is most often recorded in the history of the disease, and that the patient is acting against the advice of the doctor and that the patient must sign it. This is very important, because it can be the subject of a judicial-medical matter. The government has rejected our amendment with an explanation that the prescribed information which is a healthcare professional involved in the organ transplant process is required to provide the recipient of the organ. We just intervened that written consent couldn't be without medical advice and that the patient had to sign in the history of the disease that he refused advice from the competent doctor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26487	The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Mr. Dimitrijevic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26488	Mr. Minister, I hope you have the law in front of you. You don't? Okay. If you don't have a law in front of you, then I'll try to explain to you what this problem is all about. So in this law you have two members, Article 32 and Article 33. In Article 32, you shall say as follows: the information on the provider and the recipient of the service must not be collected, processed or used for other purposes, except for the purpose of transplantation in accordance with this law. In Article 33(3), the results of the transplant procedure may be used for scientific and research purposes. Now, you see, Mr. Minister, we wanted to help you improve our amendment to this law and we cited it as a reason on the Committee. We got the answer and the explanation we got. We have come to the conclusion from the answer that there is no goodwill among the proposing representatives to help resolve certain basic concepts in this law. In one member you forbid it, the other you allow, and then you will interpret the law, so when someone uses that data, you will refer to Article 32, if they do not use Article 33. So, what's he saying? This speaks of a lack of seriousness, of a law-reading, of not following certain things, and that law is a miracle that has been hit by Serbian health care. That's not the only problem. The problem is that passing laws like this is causing some other stuff. Mr. Minister, there are lists at the Clinical Center, and those lists are called death lists or life hanged on the wall, where people are waiting in line, where with extra-standard services, whoever has money to pay he'll live, and whoever doesn't know what's coming. It's the fate of our health care. It is the fate of 7.5 years of Mr Milosavljevic's reform. It's the state of the health care system in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26489	The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic to Article 37. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26490	Article 37 refers to a ban on the use and transfer of data on the identity of the donor, or the recipient of the organ. This article discusses a ban on the use and presentation of data on the identity of the donor, or the recipient of the organ. On Article 37, I have submitted an amendment that Article 2 is amended and reads as follows: Exceptionally from Article 1 of this Article, on the basis of the written consent of the donor, i.e. the recipient of the organ, the data on the personality of these persons may be used and delivered for scientific, educational and statistical purposes, as well as in means of public information, in the case of a full-time person, professionally capable, preserved awareness and powers of judgment. You did not accept the amendment, and in an explanation for not accepting the amendments, you stated that other provisions of the proposal for this law had it arranged, but you did not specify which provisions. Since Mr. Chiplic is here, I think he might be able to answer. Also, there are two situations here. So giving an organ, a person is conscious, full-time, professionally capable. And when it gives written consent to the provision of information or for statistical purposes, it will take some time. Whether in that time, which may be an hour, two or five days, its consciousness to be disrupted or not, that is the question and that is why we believe that this proposed amendment is consistent with the introduction of a person when giving consent to the information must also be aware.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26491	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26492	Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State, Article 37, says the following - it is prohibited to use and present data on the identity of the donor or recipient of the organ for scientific, educational and statistical purposes, as well as in means of public information in a way that can reveal the identity of the data subject. Exceptionally from Article 1, on the basis of the written consent of the donor, or the recipient of the authority, data on the personality of these persons may be used and presented for scientific, educational and statistical purposes, as well as in means of public information. We have proposed this amendment to delete public information funds as words from members of this law. Because it's inhumane, it's not correct. And that's where we showed good will to manipulate these data in public information. We've had a lot of examples in the state. To show good faith, and to you, Mr. Minister, it is a very close topic, as Minister for the Protection of Human and Minority Rights, the amendment has been rejected by an insubstantial response. So, you're going to allow some unfortunate person to get the data out in the means of public information. That's not good. It says that this law is not well laid.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26493	The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Gordana Paunović - Milosavljevic submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs Paunović-Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26494	Article 44 refers to an assessment of the risk to the life and health of the organ donor. I have submitted an amendment that Article 44(2) changes and reads: “It is prohibited to take organs from the living organ donor if there is a risk to the life and health of the organ donor. ” Your reason for not accepting the amendment is completely inaccurate and unclear, because you wrote in your explanation – that this amendment is unclear to you. What's unclear about the amendment? Do you want me to read it to you again? We have evicted from this article the bill "in the limits of the acceptable". Here is Mr. Ciplic, so perhaps he could as a lawyer define what "acceptability limits" mean, because Article 3 of this proposal is not clearly defined anywhere. The amendment also gives a more precise formulation of this attitude, given that the words "responsibility limits" are unclear, prone to subjective interpretation, immeasurable, thus reducing the responsibility for the life and health of the organ donor. Like many members of this law, this article can be interpreted in one way or another – each in its own way. This member is ambiguous and I believe that you should explain to this assembly and to the citizens of Serbia what "acceptability limits" means or accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26495	He's got the word of Mr. Pai Boys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26496	I would like to ask perhaps one question to the esteemed Mr. Minister - do you intend to answer any of our questions, to one of our remarks, that's the first? Secondly, come on, I'd like to ask you a unnecessary question, do you feel really good about the role you're doing today? I can't forget that debate that was held yesterday, the day before yesterday, when Mr. Minister of Education, here, really had one cultural dialogue with the MPs, one substance, then Mr. Dulic. I'm just... I'm... I'm... I'm just... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm just... So, I asked you, do you personally feel good in this role and do you feel like you really should play here just for icabana? Why did I report for this member? I called to explain one thing. Our proposal gave us one clear qualification. We said, as Dr. Paunovic said, it is forbidden to take organs from a living donor if there is a risk to the life and health of the donor. It's clear to everyone. The term "health" is defined, i.e. the World Health Organization has defined it. The term "life" is clearly defined, and you are now inserting the category of "acceptable risk". How are you going to measure what machines are taking the risk, please? You're adding, another worse thing. In response, you say ours isn't accurate. And this is accurate, he says – according to medical criteria is not within the limits of acceptable, i.e. if the risk to the life and health of the organ donor is disproportionate to the expected benefit of the organ recipient. How will you measure the proportionality of the usefulness of giving and make it less harmful for the donor? Here's the situation. Mother has a kidney that can transplant a son who doesn't have a kidney. The type-approval has shown that this is possible. For example, mother is also a chronic kidney patient and she wants to give to her son. How are you going to measure now that the mother will not get into more damage than that giving? I mean, that kind of nebulose you're talking about, and you, Mr. Minister, are defending it. Do you have such moral integrity that you accept such stupidity as to defend and carry that burden on your back, I ask you openly as a man?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26497	The 46th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Mašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26498	Mrs. Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, I will first address you and say that 23 years ago I became a doctor of veterinary sciences, at 33 years of age, and thus obtained the legal law that gives me the Law on Higher Education, which is that with my name stands the title – Doctor. Here in this National Assembly, I have been reported as Dr Zoran Mašić, and you, and especially the lady who replaces you often, are destroying our entire dignity as a doctor of science, by not calling us that title and by calling us by our work and pawning. Therefore, I ask that from this day forward, you and everyone else who holds the presidency, that both me and all the other doctors call science the title they have. I wanted to say this, that as a veterinarian, because I have medical education, I am competent to participate in the debate on organ transplant law, because among other things in the course of veterinary training and this problem we are dealing with, and we are learning about it, and the Government of Serbia is ultimately not giving a debate on this and other important laws in the field of human health, so that it has not entitled us to send here a competent minister who can competently discuss these laws, but has sent a graduate lawyer and a minister of human and minority rights to discuss with us the laws in the area of human health. This is embarrassing for the government, it's embarrassing for the Ministry of Health and for you who run this National Assembly, because in the last three or four months at the Public Service every week there's information on organ transplants and this problem in our country, because we belong to a country that has the least transplanted organs, primarily cadaver organs. The public service has made a commitment to promote it in the right way, because I follow it almost every week, and what you do, the government does in terms of promoting this law and promoting organ transplants, and what you as the Head of Parliament accept, just to pass the debate, it doesn't matter what is to be said, or what the public will hear, is also something that is extremely inadmissible, and what I am these five and a half years as an MP in this National Assembly has never been. Understand yourself, return to normal communication with all parliamentary groups, normal communication with all of us MPs with respect for total dignity, because we have not fallen from heaven here but have come as representatives of the people, and you who are chairing, especially Mrs. Comic, have no right to treat the MPs so boldly and arrogantly. It's something that's inadmissible. The 48th amendment I have tabled concerns the determination of the brain death of people, of which organs may potentially be taken from people who may be donors of those organs. Certainly in our country, we need this way of donation to live on a much larger scale and to have a much greater number of citizens, and unfortunately in our country, a large number of young people are suffering from car accidents, where the most common presence is just brain death and where a large number of these potential donors of these cadaveric organs could benefit many chronic patients, who could be brought back to life by transplanting these organs, much easier to live and extend their lives in any case. Of course, it is important when and how brain death is estimated, since after proper brain death, it can be accessed by taking these cadaveric organs. The purpose and purpose of this amendment was not to be an affirmative right of the minister to determine the criteria, the way and the procedure, the conditions for diagnosing and determining the brain death of a person whose part of the body can be taken for transplanting into the bodies of other persons for treatment. , in accordance with this law, medical documentation on the diagnosis and determination of brain death, the composition of a committee responsible for the determination of brain death, as well as the manner and procedure of keeping and registering a brain death register, which is being conducted in a medical institution, to prescribe everything by the minister. The amendment we wanted to propose that the previous minister obtain at least an opinion from the Biomedicine Authority, if it is formed, in which he will be experts, top experts from different areas of medicine, that, with the prior consultation of at least the Administration, then the minister to prescribe, and not that the aprior minister has the right to do so himself. However, unfortunately, neither this nor most of the other amendments the minister has accepted, simply everyone has been rejected and it turns out that he is the only one, I don't know what he's dealing with in the field of medicine, but it's amazing that no amendment to all the laws he has introduced here has been accepted by MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26499	I thank Dr. Mašić. Dear People's MPs, I am pleased to inform you that today there are 28 students, winners of Vuk's degree in the municipality of Visits, in our House of the National Assembly, who are accompanied by their teachers and teachers and the media, and will attend the work of our session. I welcome you in the name of the Messenger and in my name. We're going back to work. The word is Mrs Gordana Komic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26500	The right to replica on the basis of Article 101, on the basis of direct mention and offensive characterization, or an assessment that I do not respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, spoken by MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26501	Here you go, Dr. Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26502	Mrs. Comic, there is no formal and informal doctorate. You have a complex that you've been exhibiting for many years, for five and a half years I've been an MP like you, for three years you've been vice president and you've just demonstrated it. I'm proud to be. Unfortunately, you're not and you'll never be. You are here in violation of my reputation and my dignity in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, because you don't address me exactly as I ask you to address me, and you have to because it belongs to me by law, so you can't talk to me like that. Whether you are insulting or not to me and other MPs, it may be the MPs of the opposition's list to plead at the end and the debate that was led here with you has shown it, that you are extremely intolerant and arrogant. First of all, it doesn't seem like much to you as a lady, but that's exactly what it says about the character of your personality and I won't allow it in the future anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26503	Mrs. Comic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26504	Right to replica, Article 101, the basis of wrong interpretation. When I mentioned the doctorate, I wasn't talking about formal and informal doctorate, I was talking about formal education, and I said there was no hope that anyone with formal education and doctorate could be talked about both formal and informal education for decent communication. So MP Zoran Mašić misread what I was saying. In his follow-up to my reply, he mentioned a good case, which is to disqualify me on a full, or gender basis, whether or not I was a lady, so I would inform him that he was a National MP and at a time when Minister Radomir Naumov told me that I was not a lady, so the Assembly made a statement about whether or not it was true, and I am pleased to recall the co-operation with Minister Naumov, who is also a doctor of science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26505	The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26506	I'll use it for a little while, so count it to me as the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. In reading the previous amendments, you have moved a little too quickly over one amendment to Article 40, and I would like this opportunity to comment on it and simply say something in favour of that amendment. Therefore, in Article 40 of the organ transplant law in Section 4, the minister says, "The minister can make a solution authorising the second legal, or natural person to promote." We suggested that this attitude be deleted because we said that this formulation was completely unclear. Which means the minister has the exclusive right to give authority to someone to promote organ donation. Now you see how things are, about an hour ago, we discussed the law on transfusiological activity, and a lot of MPs made a note of that law in the sense that a whole group of voluntary blood donors were eliminated from the law, that they did not exist at all as voluntary blood donors. Here in this law is given the exclusive right of the minister that, by his free belief, he can make a solution to who will be involved in the promotion of organ donation. So, how can you, in one law, have a group working on the promotion of blood donation, and let me remind you, both you and the MPs, that blood is also an organ, that you eliminate voluntary promotion, and that in the second organ transplant law you give that exclusiveity to the Minister of Health. It wouldn't have been for the controversy of an important moment if there hadn't been a strange promotion in our country a while ago. I want to ask a question - what are the legal and physical persons to which the minister will give this right to be promoted? Will these be certain NGOs, what was the reaction when the entire health system of the Republic of Serbia accused it of taking the authority of the Serbian citizen? Are these organizations and legal persons involved in the promotion of voluntary organ donation? Will such decisions be made by the minister? Aren't the Minister of Health too much authority? I think they're too big and this provision in this article can't stand and that attitude should be erased. As for the amendment to Article 50, it's about the next one. As there are rules on donations, when a patient decides to donate an organ, with a personal signature and with an independent witness present, this patient may also change his mind about organ donation. That's where two new attitudes should have been added. So, as there are two points in the grant decision, so there should be these two positions when deciding to give up that donation. Therefore, the final position of this member is - on the basis of the written consent referred to in Article 1 of this Article to the Authority may be taken in the event of death by the authorities, or after prior notification by the members of the family of the organ donation, unless the members of the family explicitly orally, or in writing, soliciting clear and unequivocal facts from which it can be concluded unequivocally that the deceased person for life has changed his view on the donation. We have stated here that these clear and indisputable facts are a personal position to change the decision on organ donation in the presence of at least one independent witness, which confirms the credibility of the signature and the freely expressed will of the signatories. Point 2) - the signature of the other person on the amendment of the decision on the donation of the authority to be ordered to do so on his behalf in the presence of at least one independent witness confirming the authenticity of the signature and the freely expressed will of the signatories. So this would prevent any manipulation and I think it would be extremely correct for this amendment to be accepted. The explanation we received absolutely does not satisfy what is written in the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26507	National MP Ljiljana Miladanovic submitted to the 53rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 55th amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic, who wants a word. Here you go, Miss Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26508	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia-SNS, I have tabled an amendment that I propose to amend Article 3. I'll read the content of item 3. "If a dead person does not have living family members, or if they are not available in reasonable time that does not threaten taking transplants and is available to another close person, with whom he died was in a close personal relationship that has been evident to everyone for at least the last two years before the death of the person, the consent of that close person is sufficient to take an organ." Article 55 speaks of a delicate subject of taking an organ from a deceased person who has not given written consent. The SNS considers that the solution you have proposed in point 3 is not good, because such a solution can lead to many abuses in practice. The proposed terms "close personal relationship" are general terms. Who will be involved in assessing the intimacy between a dead person and a person who should give consent on behalf of a dead person to take an organ? Also, it's hard to time limit the category of obvious personal intimacy that should last, I don't know why, for at least the last two years. We have made it easier for the proposed amendments in a certain way to make such a decision without a delicate check of the emotional categories and we believe that this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26509	The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26510	Article 56 refers to informing and giving consent to a member of the family of a person who has not given written consent. In Article 56, point 1 is amended and reads: "The person authorised by the Director of the Medical Institution shall inform at least one of the members of the family of the deceased person's dead person about the need to take the organ from the deceased person". In your explanation, you state that the person authorised by the director of the health care institution is obliged to inform one of the members of the deceased family, and my intervention consists of informing one of the members of the rope family. Since Minister Ciplic is present here, and this is partly about human rights and the legal issue, I think at least one of our amendments, the SRS amendment, could be answered. First I'm going to read the definition of a family member, and then I'd like to ask the lawyer, Mr. Chiplic, to tell me what the definition of the rope family is, which is why you refused this amendment. In Article 3 of this Act, point 14 defines a family member. "A member of the family is a spouse, i.e. an out-of-marriage partner, a relative in the right line regardless of the degree of kinship, a lateral line with the third degree of kinship, adoptor and adoptor." Mr. Minister, answer me who will the director of the health care institution inform: is a spouse or a member of the family in the slope line or who is the first to run into? This member of the law is wrong and imprecise, so it is subject to various manipulations and abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26511	Member of the 56th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Here you go, Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26512	Well, you see, honourable MPs, intervention is identical with the one Dr. Paunovic tried to do. Namely, the person authorised by the director of the health care institution is obliged to inform one of the deceased person's family, says the legislator or legislator, and we say it should be from the family's ropes. Why? Let me be very clear. You know "Mrs. Minister" and you know Mr. Uncle Vase's famous character. In this way you will allow some uncle Vasa to appear, who will then give something that would be a decision, and the question is whether Uncle Vasa is in charge or whether he is qualified to do something like that. You're looking at me with a surprise and I'm going to do it again -- this interpretation when we said that someone from the family's rope needs to give the primary permission we want to avoid the situation so that someone from the third knee of the slope appears, who doesn't even live and doesn't know the minors with the deceased and that he gives that license. This way this amendment was written allows it. It was our simple intervention. So, to avoid Uncle Vasa from Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26513	On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26514	When we received a notice from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Chiplic, that you too would be authorised to represent this law in parliament, or government under this bill, I was convinced that Mr. Cvetkovic was sending you to parliament precisely because of this amendment. Because this is your matter, you were judge of the Constitutional Court and I'm surprised that you haven't intervened on your own to bring the State Administration Act in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with Article 136. The constitution, which said in its second position, is that the tasks of the state administration are carried out by the ministries and other state administration bodies laid down by law. The government of the Republic of Serbia, in all the laws we have so far, identifies the minister and the ministry. I don't suppose it's disputed for you that the ministry is a state body, that the minister is an elder of that body and that it can't possibly be a synonym for the ministry. Here, just in this Article 59, in paragraph 2, where this is mentioned, is said - the way and procedure of taking organs and donating from a living or dead person, preparation, processing, preservation, quarantine, use, distribution, or transplant is prescribed by the minister. Imagine, it doesn't say any. Are you perhaps the minister who dares to prescribe this, Mr. Chipletic?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26515	Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Here you go, Mrs. Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26516	Article 61 refers to the availability of data from the single Republic register of the donor. In Article 61, paragraph 3 "The Ministry" is replaced by the words "only an authorised person in the Ministry". The government rejected an amendment with the following explanation -- the ministry uses only statistics from the single republican donor registry to establish health policy in the organ transplant area. Isn't it more logical and professional to have one or more persons who have a name and last name of authority and thus have a responsibility for the data presented? As soon as these statistics are used to establish health policy in the area of transplants, you take responsibility for poor health policy identification in the area of organ transplants. We have only tried this amendment to make it more clear to whom data from such an important document can be available, such as the unique republican register of donors, because under the bill of law can be misused because it is not specified who from the Ministry has insight into this data.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26517	The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26518	Article 62 refers to the acquisition of consent, i.e. consent, as well as other data prior to the initiation of the procedure for taking the organ or transplant. The amendment is not accepted since the other close person he died with was in a intimate personal relationship, which is obvious to everyone. The government's explanation is that it's unclear, inaccurate and can create judicial problems. What other close face is that? Who can confirm that? These are subjective, not objective claims. Maybe he died with more close faces, so the closest one, he probably didn't even know. That is why we consider the proposed amendment to be more precise, because it excludes ambiguities in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26519	Dr. Paunovic-Milosavljevic submitted another amendment to Article 65. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26520	This amendment concerns Article 65. In Article 65, the word "Minister" is replaced by "Government." The explanation of the SRS is - given that the Director is appointed by the Government, we believe that the Director should also respond to the Government for his work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26521	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Health and Family have submitted an amendment to Article 65. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26522	Article 66 of Article 3 of the word "Minister" is replaced by the word "Government." The explanation of the SRS is - since the Assistant Director is appointed by the Government, we believe that the Assistant Director for his work should be accountable to the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26523	Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Here you go, Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26524	We now have a debate here on the Biomedicine Administration that should cover the powers that the three laws want to regulate -- organ transplant law, tissue and cell transplant laws. What is the first attitude? It says, the director of the Biomedicine Authority has three assistants, and nothing else. We thought it should be precise when it comes to assistants. For what? We will later see in two places in the explanations it is said that the Biomedicine Authority is primarily an expert organ, not an administrative body, which is nonsensical and which cannot be, and which should not be and which is against which the professional public of this country is. You'll see, once we've searched that administration's jurisdiction a little bit, which is what it wants to do with this management that's most professional. If so, the organ transplant area, tissue and cell transplants and transfusions are highly sophisticated and specialized branches of medicine and methods to be used are the same. We are free to have three assistants instead of an unspecified director of the Biomedicine Authority, we say – the director of the Biomedicine Administration has three assistants who are medical experts in organ transplants, cell and tissue transplants, biomedically assisted insemination and blood transfusions. We're looking for, if you need this Biomedicine Authority to regulate things in these three areas, then so should experts. We know what will happen, because of this and we intervene, the lawyers will be elected, because we are told we have enough qualified and professional in the ministries and will be at this moment, Mr. Chiplic, exempt you from this situation, do not feel affected, there are no in the Ministry and those who are authorized to deal with this area, qualified to deal with these three areas. I claim to be responsible. I happen to know who works there and who exists. What's my responsibility? Oversmarting again. The amendment is not accepted, given that the conditions for the selection of directors, as well as the assistant director of the Biomedicine Administration, will be brought forward by an act in the internal organisation. I'm not talking about terms, I'm talking about subjects. Such exhibitions of verbal and such illogicalness are these legal provisions and these are the answers. Mr. Chiplet, again a question to you, do you have the morale of having so much power that you don't react to this? These aren't professional things, these are logic things. You're a man who's in the Ministry, you know the State Department Act. I'm talking about subjects, they're talking to me about terms, conditions will be prescribed. Of course the conditions will be prescribed, who slows it down? We are having such a discussion, and you are taking part and defending something that is arrogantly welcomed by the Ministry and the people sitting on your left. Voluntary blood donors, nothing's been adopted. The people gathered in the Organization that expect kidney transplants, which are on transfusions, none of their observations were adopted. The chamber of health workers who made useful remarks, none of them were adopted, and none of them were adopted by the opposition. Mr. Chipplic, in your opinion, whether we're so imbecile, so unreasonable, that what we're proposing doesn't stand for you, if it's so I'd like you to say it, and then I'm sure I'll find my place in this whole situation, but like this, there's no dialogue, it doesn't exist, it's not parliament. In the Canadian Parliament, where our parliamentary delegation was, three law readings are done to allow both homes to be voted and adopted. What's this? There's no talking here. There was no conversation on the board. It was a public debate, but for some, it was a fake, and it was limited. Answer some of what we say, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26525	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Health and Family have submitted an amendment to Article 66. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is from Ambassador Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26526	I have a right, if you look, since I am authorized to say so in front of the board. Here's a situation that speaks of the proponent's responsibility... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26527	You may speak, but not as chairman of the Committee, you may speak as representative of the parliamentary group or from the time of the authorised representative. You can't speak as president of the board at this time. Mrs. Radeta will help you understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26528	All I'm saying is what I was given as a material. It's like this. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26529	Mr. Momchilov, you can only get a word on two basiss - you can speak as a representative of the parliamentary group or from the time of the authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26530	Take away my time. On the basis of Article 79. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Health Committee, brings a report. The Committee shall be based on Article 142. The Rules of Procedure tabled amendments to Article 65(3) and Article 66(2), Dr Paja Momchilov, chairman of the Committee, was appointed as rapporteurs at the meeting of the Assembly... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26531	It's not disputed that you're a reporter, but the time when you can be on that basis has passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26532	It didn't pass. You had an emergency session today that I couldn't physically attend at 10:00. I couldn't use my right to defend this. When was that time?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26533	You can speak on one of two grounds, which I've already informed you about, or I'll take your word for it. Identify yourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26534	Take my word for it, because I didn't understand this well. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26535	I won't take your word for punishment, but then you don't have a word. That's all I'm saying. The title above article 68 and article 68 of the amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26536	You've now gone to the 68th member and that member is very important to us. Since the Ministry has decided on something that is completely anti-European, to return the regulatory body to the Ministry and set up management, we are going to do something that is completely retroactive, which is non-European, no independent regulatory body, no more agencies of yours, so many agencies you founded, but now we're going back. We set up a drug agency, but we can't have an organ transplant agency. I'm asking, if that's the case and if this agency "yours" that's biomedicine management, who's going to deal with doctrinal issues, who's going to deal with science issues, follow world science, how can they without these people? It can't just be the advisory use of experts, as we're told it's going to be done. These doctrinal attitudes and the monitoring of world science must be carried out by qualified people. What's a qualification? First - academic, second - professional. What are the references? They're famous. There's no one in the administration who's seated to be qualified for science. You have a twinning project between our Serbian and French medicines agency. How do the French solve the problem? They have a drug agency, and they've united management, inspection, science and profession, but they're part-time experts and they insist that these people have to do their job in the profession to be experts and to be qualified, and now you're making a girl-girl, a new organ, something that's totally anachronous and that doesn't fit modern European and world-class resources to create an agency. After all, why does the minister spend money on a project on a transplant agency and pass a law like this? Go to the Ministry's site, see if a project is planned for the transplant agency. I already said it was a norm that had to be fulfilled by the blood transfusion reform, the establishment of a transfusion agency. So what's this now? Who's crazy here? We're crazy to ask the profession to decide on doctrine and science monitoring, not management, based on how we're interpreted, an advisory opinion. As soon as it's an advisory opinion, it can be adopted, and you don't have to. That's the point. It's the backbone we're fighting and we don't want such criminally bad proposals covered by these laws to be in our health care. That's what I have to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26537	The 69th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Here you go, Mrs. Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26538	Article 69 defines the tasks of the Biomedicine Administration, which relate to organ transplants. In Article 69, point 14 of the amendment, I proposed that it be – it participates through the expert commission in the preparation of good practice guides and standard operating procedures for the operation of taking, distribution, transplantation, determination of conformity, or tissue typeing, or in transplant operations. The SRS believes that expert issues from the Department of Biomedicine director should be hired by the expert commission with the previous agreement of the minister. The Expert Commission must have at least five members, prominent experts in science and professions dealing with such important and closely specialised areas, such as organ transplants. That's a lot to talk about by my colleague, Paja Momchilov, so I don't want to repeat myself. What makes this amendment realistic is the fact that the Biomedicine Administration cannot bring doctrinal attitudes and attitudes concerning higher education and academic calling without experts. Experts don't work at the Ministry. They don't educate and specialize in the Ministry. They work in health institutions that deal with such closely specialized tasks as organ transplants and get there, in addition to theoretical knowledge, and a very important experience they need. We therefore believe that under the bill of law where external experts are proposed, there should be no external experts, but that commissions of experts should be formed from high and scientific personnel, which should exist for each of these areas; it means, for organ, cell and tissue transplants, for biomedical fertilisation and for blood transfusions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26539	Member of the 69th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26540	Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs or better to say Serbian citizens, it's not worth it, we're having a rough conversation here, there's a Berlin Wall here, there's a Berlin Wall, all my luck, there's some of my hopes can be pointed at that direction. You see what the article 69 does, the work of the Biomedicine Authority regarding organ transplants is done. I say that in point 13), which is said to follow scientific achievements in the area of organ transplants and proposes measures for application in the Republic of Serbia, should stand – it should follow through the expert commission scientific achievements in the area of organ transplants and propose measures for application in the Republic of Serbia. We think he's qualified to follow the world of scientific achievements only top expert and expert, so we've also suggested that he be part of this administration. We tried to help, we were well-intentioned. Let's get this situation as far as possible, make this look like something. Be careful what happens to me, be careful what the answer is, I have constantly warned about the answers of whoever wrote this – the amendment is not accepted since there is no need for the Biomedicine Administration to form expert commissions, given that there will be three organisational units in the Biomedicine Administration to perform medical affairs. Oh, my God. Do you understand that? It says – there is no need to form expert commissions when these tasks are at stake. Oh, my God. Why? Because there's going to be a formal transfusion department for both this and that. Who's gonna sit in them? That's not what they're telling you. That's what they're saying. This is really unspeakable. I've been listening to funny explanations, crowds. Come on, the obvious facts we're giving you here, you won't adopt us from the SRS. You're embarrassing yourself. You derogate laws, you call them cartoons. It's an honor to you. We don't mind. We have to say this, we're not critics, we're not performing for some irrational hate reasons. We're performing with arguments. What does silence mean? Approval or neglect. If you're ignoring, come out and tell us in the open, keep your balls down. You so-called. Europeans, some of you are very prone to the authoritarian way of conducting this session and opinion. You who say that only one alternative can be followed and that it is the only one leading to prosperity, in fact you are not a Democrats, you are autocratic, and you are also proving it by your conduct and by misrepresenting this assembly and on rational proposals based on discussions by the representatives of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26541	Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the proposing's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 19th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Transplantation of Cells and TKIVA (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, Nikola Krpić, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Babić, Mileta Poscurica, Zoran Antić, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Colić, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Stefan Zankov, Paja Momčov and Igor Bečić. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Health and Family, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Before we move on to a review of the draft law in particular, I remind you that the Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 147(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected the amendment to Article 56(2). The bill was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. In accordance with Article 148(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 2nd amendment was submitted by National MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Here you go, Mrs. Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26542	In Article 2(2) of the first sentence – if it is a transplant, they are replaced by words – by a transplant. The amendment has not been accepted and in the government's explanation you have stated that the amendment is not accepted because, 'if the organ transplant or parts of the body', I will not go on because of the time, 'the provisions of this law and the rules laid down for the implementation of the law apply'. I do not know what you were bothered to say – if the transplant is replaced by words – to be transplanted, when in the Bill on Cell and Tissue Transplantation, Article 2 of Section 3 of you state that, in the process, I stress the process of obtaining, donating, testing, processing, preservation, storage and distribution of blood cells and stem cells, the provisions of this law apply unless this law is otherwise arranged. The only thing that comes out of this argument of yours is that it's about double standards. The SRS felt that something that must be the most concrete form of regulation of such an area should not begin with a provision – if so.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26543	National MP Nikola Krpic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Here you go, Mrs. Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26544	In Article 9(3), the words "professional-medically" are added after the words "organize". The government's argument that the amendment is not accepted is simply amazing and certainly unprofessional. The question is whether the minister knows the names and expertise of the directors in health institutions dealing with cell and tissue transplants. Probably doesn't know. If he doesn't know the names of the director, then how will he know the names of the experts and the qualifications of those experts in order to put together transplant teams. The only director knows his professional staff, because he works with these people, and it's perfectly logical and appropriate that the director draws up transplant teams in his health care facility. However, this proposed member is not so specific, because it is most likely a political proposal, so the minister knows, if not the directors of the institutions, then his assistants know the members of their parties, so he will propose that they be their children, relatives and godfathers on the transplant team. If there's anything for Ginnis, the transplant teams will be prescribed by a sublegal act. I'm asking you, when? What will be done until the transplant teams are formed? When? According to the bill in 18 months. Why the emergency law again?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26545	According to this amendment, Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic wants it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26546	I support the amendment of my colleague from the SRS, and I will use the time of the authorised representative of the NS parliamentary group. As of this morning, I've been watching what's going on, and I am truly sorry that the government's competent minister and rapporteur is not exactly the one who's resolute, so Tomica Milosavljevic. His absence today fits in his general position, noting the possibility of even being well - meaning to him any critical remark. He is indeed one of the few individuals in the government because of the frustration of intolerance, and he does not think of talking to those who think otherwise, even if they are his colleagues. The messengers and not to speak. In contrast, from Mr Dulic, who visited the parliamentary groups and tried, as far as possible, given the party's belongings, to respect useful remarks, Tomica had an attitude ranging from animosity to open aggression towards all who have any objection to the state of health. He even threatened opposition MPs in the halls. There is currently no colleague from DSS Milan Dimitrijevic, who could testify to what kind of words he can use for a man with deminutive on behalf of little Tom. From a psychological point of view, that's understandable, because Toma is actually a rare exemplar in Serbian history. We had King Alexander the Unity, and now we have the Minister of Unity, the man who managed to dissatisfaction with the group and the patients, and the doctors, and the MPs and the journalists. Unlike, say, Mr. Pai Momchilov and you, Madam President, he can no longer return to the profession. Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic was achieved in her profession as a type of neuropsychiatrist. He can always return to the profession, even if he gives up politics. The same goes for Dr. Pai Momchilov. Tomica can't. A remarkable intern has turned into a bad politician and five mandates. Seven years of loyalty to Dinkic completely ruined him as a doctor. Well, he doesn't even talk to people who were his generation at medical school. Out of public health, man has made a public public service, with it being a public secret that the Ministry of Health protects the interests of privileged importers, who, of course, were at the same time financing the election campaigns of the G17 Plus party, who had absolute control over the work of the Ministry of Health. The factory from Leskovec was prevented from producing several types of drugs, as Minister Milosavljevic and his click protected individual importers of medicines that gave to the minister, his associates and G17 foreigners, plus large sums of money. Of course, this investigation has nothing to do with the fact that the health minister is untouchable to the investigative authorities. It is widely known that Dinkic-Milosavljevic's axis has been out of Serbia for five years. Dinkic is excited about the way the money was spent on Cyprus at the time of Milosevic, and his experience is enthusiastically applied. It has already washed 23 billion euros to various criminal groups around the world. What's so-called? The ashtray stayed with him, the topic was all sorts of speculation. Our sources say that unlike the banana republic, its price is somewhat lower, so thanks to our geographical position in Europe, Dinkic has a profit of close to two billion euros. It is believed that at least half of this of the machinery in health, where a valuable associate, Milosavljevic, is opening up new aspects and appetites to him. All known cases of requests for the removal of city health secretary Dr Dragana Jovanovic, who suffered unprecedented persecution only because she asked to review public procurement in health centres. The investigation was conducted, even one of the directors agreed to obtain the status of a protected witness when it was found that something costing 400,000 euros was paid a million euros, so there was no less than 600,000 euros and nothing. When asked to the director in question why he did it, he replied that he was doing everything on the orders of a coalition-based party. In the reasons for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, it is said that the motive for making conditions as urgent as possible to ensure a high level of health protection of citizens, which is somewhat more written than an explanation for the adoption of public health laws, where it is said - in order to create conditions more urgently to ensure a high level of health protection for citizens, i.e. establishing a single legal framework for the implementation of public health performance, targets for implementation. Come on, this is illiterate, but it's just amazing that Tomica has waited seven years to create a legal framework for the exercise of public health. The NS parliamentary group was literally buried in e-mails, letters, messages these days. For understandable reasons, I will not name people because they have no immunity, and it is well known that the health and pharmaceutical mafia is actually the heart of the entire mafia in Serbia. Here's the first comment. Tell me, please, that it is more important to provide primary health care for every resident in Serbia than the transplant of cells and organs. The fact that individual businesses are in a bad financial situation and do not pay off the fund is the fault of his party president and his party, who advocated the unilateral application of the SAA and thus put domestic economy in an even more unequal position. It's a poor country where the health minister is getting better and the nation is getting sicker. The next comment, Tomica is phenomenal, simply brilliant, man has not earned 10m euros through his medical equipment companies and Medisana, his Cyprus company, which is run by his godfather, who deals with the import of drugs, and since the legal margin is 6%. He first imported drugs to Cyprus, reparated the tax there and left the basic profit that is 100%, and here he imports with a 6% margin. Of course, if some other firm tries to import something, she drinks... The next comment, something I've heard, is a man from a health profession, a doctor, at a meeting of the executives, that doctors are ordered to prescribe medications from certain pharmaceutical houses. This no longer seems to matter which medicine is better or more useful in a particular situation, especially since it is quite common that commercial travellers, otherwise doctors by profession, are monetaryally stimulating doctors in proportion to the number of prescriptions they have prescribed for medicines and their pharmaceutical houses. There is even a record being kept, and it should be prohibited for these same merchants to make their promotions during working hours, because they steal medical time, as well as for patients, who are often delayed by doctors who are not working hours late for work, so the damage to the state is dramatically multiplied. I heard from a friend a while ago that a German anti-allergic drug, I don't remember which, in our pharmacy, costs 1,800 dinars and in Germany 1.5 euros. We all know that. Whether a similar strategy will be implemented in case of cell and tissue transplants.? The next question that is very important is what about medical mistakes? Is this part of a set of health laws that we are considering under this urgent procedure? In January 2008, a pathologist, a professor at the University of Medicine in Belgrade, Dr. Marija Jančić-Zguricas, published a book, excuse me in 2006, "Secret people in white, the record of a pathologist", whose promotion in the dean in Belgrade's medical circles has upset many. Although the book is professional, it contains depictions of clinical-morphological cases from the corner of the pathologist and the autopsy without a name, many have experienced it as a sort of collection of medical failures, made by many and well-known doctors. Neglect, insufficient engagement, neglect, and then ignorance, in her opinion, are the main reasons for medical failures. She wrote the book for her own conscience, but also because case statements can be instructive, to encourage young people to be more careful in taking surgical interventions. Among other things, the book cited a painful example of a rough medical error, when the surgeon operated on a 40-year-old woman, under the diagnosis of “tumour in the stomach” and it was a very recent pregnancy. The woman was seven months old. At Belgrade's second-largest surgical clinic, doctors only realized in the middle of the operation that they had no tumor, but an unborn baby, who died during the operation, because her blood vessels were cut off from circulation. Which we will talk about infertility when we allow these mistakes to remain unpunished. Because the doctor who did all that was only punished for not being a team chief for a year. The book also lists the case of a 25-year-old pregnant woman, who was wrongly tested for malaria. Doctors could not be surprised at the technologist's oversight, our famous infectologist Dr Costa Todorovic reminded that he had successfully performed the same test countless times under tents on the Thessaloniki front. Not to mention the case of Jelica Radovic, who died at a private clinic after the beak operation, little Anja Grahovac who died after cataract surgery. It's not in the interest of a doctor's profession to cover up medical errors. Today, pathologists often, because of their uncertainty, refuse to give away their plates, or their findings, reluctant to do so or not until they have to, although they are obliged to give evidence when the patient asks for it. Unfortunately, today, too, it is not popular to ask for a second opinion. The book shows a famous professor who refused to give biopsia preparations, only the dean interventions came to them, and then a completely different condition was diagnosed at the Boston Clinic on the same preparations. So all medical institutions are required to report so-called. unwanted events, but only 681 applications arrived in 2007, while Americans publicly acknowledge that they are losing 100,000 lives annually due to failures and treatment errors, in transition countries, but also in Serbia the monitoring of errors and reporting is often covered by fears of the reputation of institutions and doctors. In our hospitals, when the patient's relatives say that in the middle of the hospital the patient fell out of bed and crashed or crashed, the most common explanation comes down to – so it happens. Twenty-five percent of the health care institutions of the tertiary level, so clinical and hospital centres and specialised hospitals do not have a protocol to register unwanted effects of drugs, and even 30% do not have registered adverse events. In addition to the adverse events mentioned, it is important that each clinic registers mechanical damage due to surgical interventions, for example, when an organ is accidentally cut off the blood vessel during surgery, complications resulting from anaesthesia - the occurrence of a thromb. How can we believe that there will be controlled side effects in such serious interventions as cell and tissue transplants? According to data from all centres in Serbia, the average length of waiting for the scheduled review is 12 days, the fastest being reached by a children's doctor, and the longest waiting for a psychiatric examination. Prof. Dr. Snezana Simic, who has been a special adviser at the Ministry of Health, is of course persistent in trying to introduce a culture of constant improvement in the quality of treatment in Serbia, points out that patient safety worldwide is the most important indicator of the quality of health services. The above safety indicators of patients are sensitive and present our painful point, but it's important to talk about what's happening to us in hospitals, so that we know that we're fixing what we're doing wrong. Invaluableness is much more expensive than quality. Medical errors in routine interventions do not stop, especially at birth. You had a chance to read "Kurir" from yesterday, where the parents of nine-month-old Stefan accuse Dr. Milica Kostic of unprofessionally and unconsciously giving birth to their healthy baby made her a permanent invalid. The inspection found it was a misjudgement, and Dr. Kostic is still giving birth. The minister, with the demining in his name, and the motivation to live for life in that function, did not want to answer these issues, the answer is the only answer – it happens and will be examined. Unfortunately, it seems to be in the life of the future century. So it's no wonder he's gone today. It is no wonder that Mr. Dulic, as a congratulatory orthopedist, has moved away, but it is even less strange that the government has delegated the very minister of Svetozar Ciplic, who has mastered the Constitution in the state of emergency, and the constitution is now in serious trouble, I would not take advantage of the term "necessary", because of my relationship with the Assembly and especially the assembly authorities towards the opposition. Mr Ciplic doctored on the topic of the influence of parliamentary immunity on the character of the parliamentary mandate, for example in European countries in transition. She is the right person to discipline the Assembly, with Vice-President Mrs. Comic, who is nervous today, as if she had just stopped smoking. Of course, neither he nor she can explain to us – why Tomica, Minister of Health, or the Ministry of Health, has opened a tender for the purchase of six million condoms, which will free of charge... (President: will you also use the time of your parliamentary group? Here you go. Yes, you can. ) a potent Serb population who does not have money or is ashamed to buy condoms at a grocery store or pharmacy. The condoms will be divided by half of 2012 within the framework of the action – realisation of the anti-HIV project, which since 2007. He spent the years in 27 cities, through 37 organizations and 22 institutes and public health institutions. In addition to the economic barrier, people have a psychological barrier in terms of shame to buy condoms at a grocery store and a pharmacy. Free division of condoms is the best way for people to overcome this psychological barrier, shame or shame, which is particularly present in young people who are also the most sexually active. So they explained the motives for obtaining six million condoms at the Ministry of Health. However, there is no precise response at the Ministry of Health regarding the purchase and price of vaccines against this famous one, according to the pig, and it is indeed not swine, but H1N1 virus. No specific question has been answered. There are not enough vaccines, nor is its price known, nor have validations and clinical studies been performed, according to the Minister with the deminutive on behalf of him – it would be irresponsible to bid now. Otherwise, everything else he does is a miracle of responsibility. What's known is that Gucha will be a very difficult and critical point. Now I have one question. I'm curious about how it is possible for this new virus to break up just in Guca, and it didn't occur at the University, where we have experienced a variety of infected athletes and followers from the white world or the Egzit, but it seems that some trumpeting in a specific way promotes the development of H1N1 virus. I'm afraid it's another attempt to declare this famous Serbian event dangerous to physical, mental and spiritual health. The next thing I know is the minister predicts a massive illness will occur in the autumn. This mass illness implies that there will also be a ban on public gatherings. From this, you don't have to be paranoid, so you start to suspect that it's actually the fear of power from events in the fall. You are not afraid of any virus intensification, but the people will be very intense, and then what else to do – until you forbid them from public gatherings, so that they will not get infected. When you were so up-to-date, why didn't you get instead of these six million condoms six million of something else, masks or something else, possibly some kind of auxiliary remedy to raise the immunity of people who are exhausted from just looking at you? Tomica Milosavljevic says and boasts that health spending is not increased and that 6% of GDP is spent on healthcare. The fact that the Nis Clinical Center, let's say, in 2005, was given 2.3 billion to function and this year 5.3 was the result of a stronger national economy. This really sounds as funny and illogical as your address to the vice president as the non-existent legislator - does the promoter want a word? It's like from a psychedramy. So someone could've jumped to that place and you could've spoken to him, only to have someone physically present. Anyway, what I think the people are also interested in is when are the insurance companies going to be able to charge for checks on private people, who are waiting in public health for more than 30 days? They'll be entitled to that from April 15th. Apri-li-li-li probably! But no one can come to the branch and get the money right away. It's nowhere, there's a procedure. The insurance companies can now seek their right and will banish him, says the health minister. So what's certain about the possible pandemic of this new virus is that by the end of the summer we'll have a cure for three percent of the population. It's still in the announcement of six million condoms, a ban on public gatherings, and, for God's sake, what I once said, that refrain of the famous song "Idola" "The Flames of the Sun" is driving me from sleep."
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26547	Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26548	Unlike the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we are in the SRS taking care of who is qualified to explain some amendment, so as you can see under these health laws, all amendments relating to legal issues are being asked by lawyers. Mr. Chiplic here does not want to speak to the MPs or when it comes to legal issues. That's what it says, Mr. Chiplet, that you are an irresponsible man, especially in relation to this House. Mr. Dulic spoke here yesterday and yesterday about the law on planning and construction and the law on state diameter and the catastrom of immovableity. He was very prepared, of course, to get some information from his associates, to talk about a subject that he had never been able to learn from professionally because he was not involved in the work. You didn't even try so hard. If Oliver Dulic were here for you, Rasim Ljajic, Sulejman Ugljanin, we would never have put any remarks on you once, because they are people doctors, or that you are prepared for the topic you are here for today. You're probably one of the few ministers who's not on vacation because Parliament needs to talk about the law that you're supposed to represent, and I hope then, what the people would say, brush your teeth, to tell us something.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26549	Mr. Granny, I assume you're more comfortable after your break or do you want to go now? The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. I give him my word, after that break.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26550	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS I have tabled an amendment to Article 10. Proposal for a law on cell and tissue transplants. A careful reading of this bill shows that the Biomedical Administration, among other things, is responsible for issuing authorisations to health institutions performing transplant operations, which is defined by Article 10 of this proposal. The Biomedicine Administration shall also be responsible for the renewal of the authorisation after five years of work of the healthcare institution, as provided for in Article 11. Also, the Biomedicine Administration has been authorised to propose and give an opinion on the withdrawal of authorisations from health institutions carrying out transplant operations, on the basis of which the minister, who is not here today, is making a solution, which defines Article 12 of this bill. As a result, there is a vague reason, apart from pure political acuity, why this amendment to Article 10(9) has not been accepted. The draft law, which reads: The terms of space, equipment, staff, or transplant teams, as well as the other conditions laid down in Article 1(2), shall be prescribed by the Minister, in the light of the attached opinion of the Biomedicine Administration, which is the essence of this amendment. On the basis of your argument on the refusal of this amendment, the Biomedicine Administration is responsible for the issue, renewal and withdrawal of licences, and is not responsible for giving opinions on the premises, equipment and staff of medical centres. Is that possible? Of course not. Of course, it is not possible for the Administration to be responsible for issuing and withdrawing permits, and it is not for professional and technical details.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26551	Like I said, we're gonna have a break by 3:00. [[After break – 15/05]] I'm asking the service to bring out the Ministry's representatives to begin our work. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. You have your word, Mrs. Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26553	Article 12 refers to the withdrawal of the authorisation. ''The Minister may withdraw the authorisation to carry out transplant operations and, before the expiry of the period on which the authorisation has been issued, unless the conditions for performing health work are met, and these conditions are from point 1) to point 5. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to replace the word "can" in Article 12, paragraph 1, with the words "it is due". The ministry is obliged to withdraw the authorisation from the authorised health institution which does not meet the conditions for performing health activities and to adopt a decision on the withdrawal of the authorisation within seven days. Your reason for not accepting the amendment is ridiculous. We have suggested that the minister is required to withdraw the permit if he finds there are irregularities in points 1) to (5). We did not propose that the minister withdraw the medical authority's license if it meets all the conditions prescribed by the bill. It is also argued in the reasons for not accepting the amendments that the decision is taken in the administrative procedure and the question is how long it is necessary for this procedure to take place and how long it takes to establish in a regulated manner the fulfilment of one of the conditions laid down in this law. During that time, people may suffer because we know the urgency of certain situations, at that time until the decision is made by administrative procedure and until the correctness or invalidity of a particular health institution is established.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26554	The People's MP, Milet Poscurica, submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic submitted to the 15th amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26555	Article 15 refers to the tasks of the coordinator. In Article 15(1), point (7) is amended and reads as follows: "He has co-operated with the Republic of Ethics Committee and the Ethics Committees of Health Institutions in which cell and tissue transplants are carried out. "The explanation - in the area of transplant medicine is particularly possible ethical problems that can occur when donations and transplants of cells and tissues. Respect for human rights is not only an ethical, but also a legal obligation for all healthcare professionals and all health institutions. There should be an ethical committee in each health care facility, especially in health institutions dealing with cell and tissue transplants. Patients should be clearly indicated how they can address the Ethics Committee. In these health institutions, co-operation between coordinators and the Ethics Committee is very important and necessary. In the light of this law, it is stated that the coordinator may or may not have to or when he wishes to co-operate with the Ethics Committee. However, we believe that in cell and tissue transplant institutions, the Ethics Committee is making a decision and is considering expert issues regarding tissue cell taking, monitors, analyses the ethicality of the relationship between healthcare professionals and patients, especially in the area of granting patient consent to the proposed medical intervention. That is why we consider this amendment acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26556	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Do you want to, sir, according to the previous one? Here you go. Mr. Paja Momchilov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26557	I'm using the MP's time group. I checked in neatly, I think, but maybe you didn't notice. I'm wasting my time with the MPs' group. You see, in this Article 15, the Coordinator's duties are numbered. It is said in point 7 that he does other things. This is what he does, and other affairs mean nothing if we agree. We may disagree, and some will say, "He does other things, perhaps he does trade and who knows what." But what did we say? We say, to fill in this void and this vague formulation that is important to us, to coordinate the work of the ethical committees. What kind of ethical committees are these? Three ethical committees are immediately imposed here, the law itself states that the institution is obliged to have its own ethics board. Furthermore, the legislator predicted that there was an ethical committee at the level and this administration, so, and the administration would have its own and correctly defined how it would make it up. What are we being told? There is also a Republic Committee of Ethics that should be a hat, chosen by the Government, you know that. Now watch out, this area of transplants is burdened with possibilities for ethical violations. Let me say a rough, ordinary, what might be the most useful in the future and that's taking stem cells from the newborn's umbilical blood. Now you can, say, have a problem taking from a person and committing an ethical violation in a million ways. So we think it's precisely the responsibility of this coordinator in the very institution where things happen and things happen and coordinate these ethical issues. What do they match us for? It really doesn't look like anything. It says this - is not accepted because it is said in Article 17 of Article 1 of the proposal for an opinion on ethical and other issues in the transplant process that the Ethics Committee is in a health institution that performs transplant operations. Who's denying it? We talk about coordination, and he tells us -- they have an ethical board in the institution and they work. Of course they do. It also states that Article 3 provides for the Ethics Committee to carry out other tasks on a proposal from the coordinator and on the basis of the requirements of the Ethics Committee responsible for Biomedicine, in which cooperation between the Ethics Committee and the Transplant Coordinator is enabled. It sucks again. We're talking vertical co-operation between the two superiors, according to us, as we see it, how the legislator wrote it, and we're being given this pointless answer. Does anyone feel that ethical problems in tissue and cell transplant problems are not important, that they should be the special concern of coordinators. If that's what you think, good for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26558	Mrs. Milosavljevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26559	Article 23 paragraph 4 is amended and reads - Biomedicine Administration, based on the standards of medical science and specificity of the application of certain types of cells, or tissues, can decide that for a particular type of cell, or tissue does not constitute a republican waiting list, I repeat, does not constitute a republican waiting list. These cells, or tissues, must be recorded in a special register with all the reasons. The amendment is not accepted, and the explanation is completely unclear on both sides of the profession and on the side of legal science. The Biomedicine Administration in the Bill's Proposal, based on the standards of medical science and specificity of certain cells and tissues, may decide not to make up a republican waiting list for a particular type of cell or tissue. The government’s explanation further states that there is no clear medical or any other reason why the register of those cells, or tissues for which a single waiting list is not made up. This explanation is absolutely amazing, not to say pointless. So, the Biomedicine Administration, according to how it was formed, will do state administrative work, but also professional and scientific affairs. So the people who work are completely unqualified to work in this facility. That is why we believe that it should not exist within the ministry. In each health institution, there is a register, where in a specific case it states which cells and tissues for which a single waiting list is not made up, and which is why these tissues do not make up a waiting list.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26560	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26561	In Article 24(2), the word "director" is replaced by the words "expert commission for the transplant of organs of tissues and cells". The explanation - commission of cell and tissue transplant experts is composed of at least five members, high-level, scientific and academic persons, in the area of cell and tissue transplants, and it can better look at the quality of the institutions. The amendment is not accepted for reasons, I will quote only part of it because of time, namely, the Biomedicine Administration will primarily carry out professional and then administrative tasks in the area for which it was established and will have sufficient quality persons to propose forward-looking, based on the professional attitudes of medical science and practice and European standards. This claim is highly incorrect, because in the Biomedicine Administration, if its name reflects its function, it will deal with administrative and state affairs. Where do you in the Ministry of Health have experts and scientists who are experts in the field of biomedicine, not only in theory, but in practice? These scientists work in health institutions dealing with transplants and get there, in addition to theoretical knowledge, and an extremely great experience. That is why we believe that the proposed amendment is in order and that it should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26562	Mr. Paja Momchilov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26563	This was all explained to you by Mrs. Paunovic. But look, here we have replaced that the director can't do that, if there are more qualified and more skilled people. Why? Because the director can also play the case as we see it under this law, because they're just looking for qualifications for the director of the administration and nothing more. Please, the management can't deal with it, here they directly say they're doing professional and then administrative work. In front of me is the Law on Administration and, please, the principles of independence, legality and professionalism, not to engage in science and profession. Then, the affairs of accurate participation in forming a government policy, monitoring the situation. Then he says it's nice to do law enforcement and other regulations and general acts, and that's three tasks. What kind of profession and science, what kind of, where is it in the Administration Act? Be careful what he says in article 14 of the ministry’s governing body does not provide regulations, and here he can do so. Look out, and in this position you have a minister. This set of laws is about the powers of the minister: he gives the permits, he prescribes, he empowers, he is one person who decides everything. Well, he can't. What's the problem? Maybe he can, if he's brilliant, because he's such a renaissance guy, so man knows everything and he can do anything and he's a genius, then he could. When you have something like that, when you have a lot of licenses, you probably have a lot of bribery. It's a possibility of corruption. Why do radicals always speak Ministry, not Minister? Just to avoid corruption. Why are we talking about this? Corruption is a real thing, that's what foreigners tell you, you won't enter Europe because of corruption. It's the next topic, the big one, which will be open after The Hague and after all the other things. Where do they say the biggest corruption is? They say in health care, and you don't perceive it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26564	Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26565	Honorable President, Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26566	I'm sorry, you can't hear yourself. You have to do it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26567	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, honourable presidents, respected ministers, in front of the Prosperity Club, I am submitting to Serbia an amendment to add the word "baseline" in Article 28rd paragraph 3 in front of the word "suspect". It is good that there is Minister Ciplic, since this amendment of mine is a little bit about legal regulations, so it was not bad that the writers of this law tried to ask the lawyers something to regulate it properly. Since the word "suspect" or "suspect" can't be treated equally, without the word "founded." When someone suspects something, and there's no argument, I mean, no institution that's in charge of processing such a piece that they won't accept when they suspect something. If it is said that there is a reasonable suspicion that something has been done, then there is some argument based on which a reasonable doubt can be taken, and then measures can be taken to investigate this man who has given him reasonable doubt. Therefore, the wide-ranging possibility of doubt, without proof of its foundation in terms of potential commercialisation of cells and tissues for transplantation, can create additional problems if one of the health workers' teams refuses to participate in the transplant process. This can first and foremost be expected because it is not clearly defined until the suspicion can be expressed, so theoretically it can be added to be at the moment of the implantation or initiation of cell or tissue implantation. The result would be very serious both by donor material and by the recipient himself. Such a possibility must therefore be well-founded and applied with a rational frequency. Here in your draft law, Article 28(3) you say – a healthcare professional who participates in the transplant process, if he suspects that cells or tissues that are transferred are subject to commercial trade, he is obliged to refuse participation in the transplant process. How did you imagine that at the moment if he suspected and already had a patient on the table, he wasn't involved in tissue transplants? It is not clear to me that such a thing can happen and eventually report that it suspects that tissue commercialisation is in the process. So, you shouldn't go without this amendment "based." You will allow me, as a lawyer, to be right, because the entire opposition has been in doubt for six or seven months for a year that something is wrong in Serbia. That reasonable doubt is a bad life, the economy has stopped and I don't tell you what's going on. Serbia is going back or on suspicion, and no one is reacting to that. Mr. Ciplic misread Vojvodina's statutes and is so persistently trying to defend it, while in some cases as many as 60% of Serbian citizens do not accept your interpretation. So let's say now that it's a bad amendment if we say that we have a reasonable doubt and that it can then react and enter the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26568	Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. Does he want a word? Here you go, Mr. Cholic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, the Forward Serbia Club, I have submitted an amendment to Article 33, which reads: 'The way in which cells are taken and donated, or tissues from a living or dead person, processing, preservation, quarantine, use, distribution, or cell transplant, or tissue, is prescribed by the minister. ''The basic motivation of submitting my amendment is precisely with that word'minister', and the whole debate today is about the relationship between the Biomedicine Administration and the affairs to be carried out by the minister. I ask that after the word "minister" be deleted, to place a decimal point and add the words "in the prepared opinion of the Biomedicine Authority". The proposer’s explanation is: it is prescribed that the process of cell and tissue transplantation is carried out in accordance with the highest standards of medical science. The standards are mentioned here, but there's no ethics, there's no morals. I guess that's what's printed with the Hippocratic oath that includes, hopefully theoretically, in practice it's a little bit of a discussion, and ethics and morality. I would also refer a little bit to Article 23 that regulates and mentions the Republic's waiting list, i.e. the fairness of the transplant process, and since Mr. Ciplic is persistently silent about what the MPs say, and silence is in some way a sign of approval, we hope that he agrees that Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic has put himself above the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, above all those we swear in election campaigns, when we say that we are working in the interests of citizens. It is in vain and pointless to convince Mr Milosavljevic that what we are doing is very important for the citizens of Serbia, at least for a part of Serbia's citizens, as it is in vain and pointless to convince Mrs Comic that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We'd better say there's been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, there's never gonna be a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but we're gonna waste time in something that's Sisif's job, which is pointless. We at SNS believe that there are experts at the Biomedicine Administration who already have the necessary experience in dealing with cells and tissues intended for transplantation. In addition, the Administration normally discusses reports from health institutions, legal and natural persons and appreciates their equipment regarding the obligation to prevent the risk of transmission of the disease in the transplant process, which is reported by the minister, so it is logical to formulate them directly and as such, the minister. The incompetence of the minister here is boundless. He's the beginning and end of the world, he's an alpha and an omega, he has the infallibility of the Pope in Catholicism. Personally, as a member of the SNS and all my colleagues, we disagree and by submitting these amendments we try to at least point to that part of the gap that was made. When we say the fairness of the process, the Republic's waiting list, only then do we feel that there is a source of corruption and crime. There's another illusion, there's another possibility that the citizens of Serbia are suffering in this part, and it's a very important part, that God doesn't give to anyone, but such things happen, and that state should also be how fair, rational, fair. I know what I'm talking about is just letting go of the dream, the voice of the cryin' in the desert, and another illusion that we MPs are trying to call the authorities to their senses, and in the interest of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26570	National MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic submitted to the 34th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26571	Article 34 refers to preventing the risk of transmission of diseases, as well as preserving the quality of cells or tissues. In Article 34, the words ‘maximum stability’ are replaced by the words ‘quality system’. The amendment is not accepted for the reasons as you have stated, because maximum stability implies the preservation, integrity of cells or tissues, thus providing ideal conditions for quality and safe implementation of cell or tissue transplants. However, you did not explain how much this maximum stability is. Can you measure it? Can you identify her? What is most important is that such an imprecise term that you advocate is a narrow concept of – quality system. What's absurd about the reasons for the non-acceptation amendment is that you end up saying, "Also, you can't accept the introduction into this article of the term 'quality system', given that the quality system is given in Article 3. It's a bill of law. ''Why, then, in Article 3, which refers to the concepts used in this law, you have described what the quality system means, and you have not described the maximum stability. Well, even now, if Mr. Minister were here, he probably wouldn't know how to define this term.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26572	The 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Here you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26573	Dear MPs, our party has submitted a number of amendments to the Bill on Cell and Tissue Transplantation. The amendments have been submitted with a view to fixing this law in some way. For the sake of citizens, to understand what it is, this amendment refers to preventing the transmission of diseases, as well as preserving the quality of cells, or tissues. In Article 34, in paragraph 4, I have proposed some amendments and additions to that article. The bill states this way: ''Nearer conditions regarding the way and procedure of preventing the risk of transmission of diseases during cell handling, or tissue, as well as the preservation of the quality of taken cells, or tissues, are prescribed by the minister. ''I propose that after the words - the minister put a comma and add words - the minister, in the opinion of the Biomedicine Administration. Explanation; the Biomedicine Administration employs experts who already have the necessary experience in dealing with cells and tissues intended for transplantation. In addition, a report by health institutions, legal and natural persons and values their equipment is discussed in the Administration, which is related to preventing the risk of transmission of the disease in the transplant process, as reported by the minister, so it is logical to formulate them directly and as such, the minister. I think this would fix the law in that the minister could get the opinion of the Biomedicine Authority and therefore make decisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26574	The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic to Article 49. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26575	Article 49 refers to the assessment of the risk to the health of the donor. In Article 49(5), paragraph 5 is deleted. I will read to you item 5: Exceptionally from Article 4, for certain types of cells, i.e. from the standard of medical science, i.e. the specificity of taking certain cells or tissues, the minister, on a proposal from the Director of the Biomedicine Administration, makes a decision in which a type of cell, or tissue, does not need prior consent from the Ethics Committee of the Health Institute for cell-taking, or tissue-taking, for the purpose of treating another person’s body or for human use. We felt that the attitude was vague, inaccurate and extremely unethical, which is why we suggested erasing this attitude. All medical procedures, especially those related to organ and tissue transplants, are subject to ethical evaluation. This area, the area of tissue transplants, cells and organs, is particularly burdensome for the violation of all ethical principles, which you cited as an example. The government's argument that is not accepted is subjective medical interpretation, professionally unjust and violates all the principles of all ethics. This explanation wasn't written by accident. It's written that it corresponds to the Minister and the Biomedicine Administration. It's just amazing and against all the fundamental rights of the medical profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26576	Mr. Momchilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26577	Dr. Paunovic said – all procedures of the doctor are subject to ethical judgment and evaluation. Everyone, there's not one that can be excluded. That's the first one. Furthermore, what a ridiculous argument this is, when we are told that because of the development of science, which is why standards of use, i.e. taking cells and tissues, gave us the possibility that the minister, the almighty minister, on the basis of the proposal of the Biomedicine Administration, would be read according to the law of what administration is, with the monitoring of the modern achievements of medical science, be careful – will be accompanied by the Minister of Contemporary Science in the Transplant of Cells and Tissues, or tissues transplanted into the body of other persons for treatment. Imagine, the second argument says this - by types of specific cells and tissues, he can exempt it from ethical evaluation, because of their specificity, because the decision of the Ethics Committee cannot wait, but must be applied urgently. What tissue? Let it indicate which needs to be applied urgently. I know the cornea can be transplanted, stem cells, bone, so let's see an example of urgency. What's with the layman's explanations? Let this group of citizens sitting here not taking part in the debate explain what I asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26578	National MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic submitted to the 51st amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26579	Article 51 refers to persons who may be cell and tissue donors. Article 51(1) changes and says: a cell giver, or a tissue may be a person older than 18 years of age, a business capable, preserved consciousness and a preserved ability to judge and make decisions. You refused this amendment with an explanation that it would not be accepted since it was article 51. Proposal for a law prescribed which persons may be cell and tissue donors, i.e. which adult persons may give consent and how consent is given. In fact, other provisions of this bill regulate who can be a donor. I ask, since there is no representative of the Ministry of Health, Mr Chiplic, what are the provisions that speak of who can be the donor, or recipient, and how is consent given? On the other hand, we believe that there are quantitative and qualitative disorders of consciousness, as stated by alcoholics, junkies, pills, others who have somatic disease, and therefore take tablets at higher doses, can be drowsy, so that their quality of consciousness is impaired. As we know, a person with such disorders is unable to properly judge, or make decisions, so in order to avoid the possibility of abuse and manipulation, we propose the said amendment solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26580	The 5rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26581	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 53 in front of Parliament's Forwards to Serbia. I will read the entire article 53: "A health worker who participates in the process of taking cells, i.e. tissues, is obliged, after giving written consent from Article 50 of this Law, to fully inform the donor about the procedure and method of taking cells, i.e. tissues, possible direct and indirect effects on his health that can be caused by taking cells, or tissues, as well as the expected outcome of the transplant and other essential circumstances... "In the amendment, I suggest that the word "after" be deleted and the word "before" be added instead. So all this information should be given before giving written consent. Why? There is a possibility that a biological material donor, after being involved in the transplant process, has informed him of all of this and of the possible consequences, he withdraws his consent, explaining that decision by not knowing the essential facts. In the government's explanation of why this amendment is rejected, not to be persuaded, they explain to me that Article 52 provides for the first healthcare worker to participate in the procedure, who practically does not participate in the transplant process itself, which must in an objective, unscrupulous way learn about all the health consequences and all the complications of a potential donor. Article 53, they explain to me that they provide in fact information on all these procedures directly, so, before the operation, that is, an explanation of the detailed transplant procedure. I get that. Clearly, it didn't need this kind of explanation. We have a health care professional who doesn't participate in the procedure, who's valid, who needs impartially, unsupervised to give information. He has to give information, because that potential donor will ask him about the way he was transplanted. To appreciate that we will and that you want us to have two, so this one that doesn't participate in the transplant process and we have another healthcare worker, as you say, who participates in the transplant process and has to explain the operational procedure. For these reasons I said earlier, I think it's necessary to do so before giving consent. So, let it be of two healthcare professionals, with different experience and access, informed of both those who do not participate and of that healthcare worker who participates in the transplant, all before giving consent. That way, this potential donor will come up with a definitive opinion, and that's why I thought it would be much better if instead of the word "after" and put the word "before" in here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26582	National MP Milan Knezevic submitted to the 56th amendment. Do you want to follow this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26583	I gave the amendment to Article 56 paragraph 1(2), and here the whole article actually refers to written consent to the taking of tissue from the dead person. Now in that first attitude we have two points, under which conditions you can take tissue from a dead person because of a transplant. Point 2) says, "I gave a warrant to the other person to sign a written consent to give tissue in the event of death" not to read any further. I have proposed by amendment that the word "order" be deleted and that instead of that word be "authority", it means I have given authority to the other person. Now for me to refuse the amendment, what's being explained. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Law on Liabilities, the Official Journal, defines the contract for a warrant bound by the authorising officer to undertake certain tasks for his account. Not to read the whole explanation, essentially now they're a little bureaucraticly explaining these relations between the receiver and the employer. The word "a warrant" is adequate and they believe that this authority that I have proposed to replace is not good. Then you look at the next article, which is article 57, giving written consent. The same legislator uses the word "authority" everywhere, and then the point 1st point 2), 3) and 4) "authorised person to record written consent", and "authorised person to record a written person", and "authorised person to perform transplant operations". So, the next article already uses the term power, but in this previous article, the reason for the refusal is to appeal to the Law on Liabilities. The explanation is really illogical, just to look at the next member and I think it's more appropriate to use the word "authorization", just because it's in agreement with the next member and some other places, not to quote.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26584	The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26585	Article 56 refers to written consent for tissue collection. I have submitted an amendment to add the words "expert writing" in Article 56(2). I'd like to read to you first Article 56 paragraph 2: ''On the basis of the written consent of Article 1 of this Article, the donor may be taken in the event of death of tissue after prior notification of the members... '"I'm still not going to read for the sake of time. The SRS considers that the written notice of an expert is very important to family members, as one written clue that should remain in the history of the disease or in another medical document found in a medical institution, in case of problems. Because in a situation where they need to make such a significant and important decision, they are in a difficult mental state, in a mental crisis, in stress, and may not be aware and may not be prepared at that time to give consent without some written notice that will be better worked out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26586	Member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic submitted to the 61st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26587	Article 61 refers to taking tissue from a person who has not given written consent. The amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, in Article 61(3), is amended and reads: ''If the deceased person does not have any living family members, or if they are not available in a time that does not endanger the taking and transplantation of tissues, and another close person with whom he died was in a close personal relationship that was obvious to everyone at least two years before the death of the person, the written consent of that close person with the presence of an independent witness who will confirm the relationship with a close person. ''Like all other amendments of the SRS and this amendment, you did not accept, and the reason for not accepting the amendment is this. It is argued that the amendment is not accepted for reasons to find an independent witness, which would confirm the relationship of the deceased with a close person requires additional time, which would needlessly delay the process of taking tissue. Article 61(3) states among other things – and another close person with whom he died has been in a close relationship in the last two years. Well, who did those people he died with have a close relationship with? So these are persons who could be independent witnesses, who could confirm the connection of a dead person to a close person. So it's not about finding a person who would confirm a relationship and it doesn't take any extra time, because the said Article 61(3) states a relationship that is obvious to everyone. In this way you want to quickly and without responsibility to solve such a sensitive issue. This is highly unacceptable for the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26588	The National MP of Pai Momchilov submitted to the 67th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26589	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so here's this really miracle of the law, man, when he reads, he's really very often in big troubles. First, two things I've advertised here, again the term "non-profit", we're not going to be dealing with these lexical problems and semiotic; of course, we in the SRS fully understand that language is something that's a living thing and that there can be a shift in the meaning of one expression and one, right, a lexical concept, but we also know that there must be some extremely important reasons for that to happen. You see, you have an example that the jeweler who used to be the place where the drugs were sold has now come to represent a common service. This is not the case here, and here again and in a bold way, the other word is drawn from the dictionary and given the interpretation, and I speak clearly for the words found in the dictionary. I'm surprised that you sitting at this chair don't worry about the dignity of this assembly, I'm giving references from two dictionaries of the leading Serbian and I quote, and this team, which is neither guilty nor due for all of this, claims by replacing the thesis, is right and that no one reacts. It discourages me. On the other hand, watch out here, the bank is now creating tissues and cells and it can be public or private. They'd say -- radicals, as you rebel, you're for private property. We are, but a private bank can do the jobs for which it has been granted a license as a winning service, so it can gain profit and benefit – why now all of a sudden? Where did this shift in copernicus come from, explain the gentlemen who are sitting there? What's the reason that a private one can deal with financial business and gain, and the state can't? What are these reasons, we're very interested in it? It's not your fault, though. They say it's the minister's fault? No matter what minister, it is the Prime Minister's fault -- if this were an organised state and if this were the right parliament, this would be a scandal. This is where the prime minister would come to apologize to the MPs and ask us to work in abnormal conditions. However, this is the Balkans, and here are the leaders of the Kabadiah parliament, who are not interested in this, who don't even know this, who don't know parliamentary ethics, and I don't find it surprising. Again, as for the gentleman who is an authorised representative, Kant's moral imperative for you is obviously not valid, and I won't insist any longer that you give the answers. You are not responding to the UN tribunal's verdicts, the criminal one, when Vojislav Seselj is at stake, and you might be interested in that, at least in the vault that you have.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26590	Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Milan Knezevic. He's got the word "professor." Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26591	I have submitted an amendment to Article 75, in Section 1. I'll read what that attitude is, and otherwise it concerns management of the quality system. He says: “The bank of cells and tissues is obliged to introduce and update quality systems based on the principles of good practice. “ My amendment is that in this attitude it is much more appropriate that instead of “principles of good practice, ” it is“ principles of medical professions and sciences. ” Why? Especially since the quality system and the entire transplant procedure is a highly sophisticated method, this quality update is really closely linked to the uniform progress and medical professions and sciences, which intertwines with each other. Surely any documents that will be made will be required, depending on the procedure that will dynamically change, and the corresponding changes. I think, at least in this position of this member, this is more appropriate. In response to the government's refusal to refuse such an amendment, they say and explain – that the amendment is not accepted because the term good practice is widely accepted in the world, i.e. they are calling for the EU, the declaration and the Council of the European Parliament, that it is a constitutional term. First of all, I have made no amendment to the term "good practice". In many places in this law there are these terms. I just thought that in this part of the update of quality we should call on the medical profession and science. Inconsistencies, I can't go into detail. In the case of an amendment, now that the government is responding to the amendment, she, for example, says, 'Because of the development of science, which speeds up changing the standards of use', also 'needs the previous consent of the Ethics Committee', 'in agreement with the new achievements of medical science'. I cut out the words – where it is necessary for the Government to reject the amendment, it is called for both medical science and profession and for changing standards, and where unnecessary, then a good word is good practice. Personally, once again, I think it may be cosmetic, but it's much more appropriate in this position of article 75 to read as I suggested by the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26592	The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic to article 86. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26593	Article 86 refers to the authorisation to carry out scientific and research work. In Article 86, point 1 after the word "thinking" is added, the words "Expert Committee for organ, tissue and cell transplantation" and after the words "biomedicine" are deleted and the words "Ethics Committee" are added. You did not accept this amendment for the reason that the bill does not provide for the establishment of an expert commission for organ, tissue and cell transplantation, but for the establishment of a Biomedicine Administration, which, as an organ within the scope of this Ministry, will have the obligation to give the Minister responsible for health affairs an opinion on the implementation of scientific and research work on cells, or tissues. The SRS, which Dr. Pai Momchilov spoke of, suggested that instead of external experts, which are in the proposed law, commissions of experts form. These experts' commissions will be composed of the most innovative experts in cell and tissue transplantation. These experts' commissions, which should have at least five members, should give an opinion on scientific and research work, because they are the most competent for the job.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26594	The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic to Article 87. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26595	Article 87 refers to the authorisation to introduce new health technologies in the treatment process by using cells or tissues. Article 87(2) after the word "proposal" adds the words "expert commissions for organ, tissue and cell transplants". SRS MPs believe that the Biomedicine Administration should be a closely specialised professional and scientific body that should not be in the health ministry. Under the proposal of this law, it is the body of a state administration that is politically colored. There should be no external experts at the Biomedicine Administration but, as we have proposed in the previous article, expert commissions for a specific area of transplantation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26596	Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP, Paya Momchilov, submitted to the 89th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is from Ambassador Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26597	Here, we are somehow at the end of these amendments that we have proposed, and this is really the highlight and crown of the nebulous explanation that we've been given. You see, we say that the scientific achievements must be monitored through the expert organ transplant committee and proposed for application in the Republic of Serbia. So someone here has to follow what's going on in the world and then suggest it's being applied in Serbia. This requires top-notch expertise and expertise. I was free to remind myself of how it is acquired, academic knowledge, science, concrete science, not by following some and sneaking, but by practicing science and professional qualifications. I said again, the more reference they all know. Look what he says in his answer to us. It says this - the amendment is not accepted because the bill does not provide for the establishment of an expert commission for organ, tissue and cell transplants, but for the establishment of a Biomedicine Administration, which, as a body within the Ministry, will monitor scientific achievements in the area of cell and tissue transplantation and propose measures for application in the Republic of Serbia. It's not in any administration, it's going to deal with science and what's a profession and determine what's in the world to accept our profession and do. So our experts are now so demoted that they are not able to bring doctrinal attitudes, that they follow science, but in the Ministry they will be monitored and they will be imposed through this biomedicine administration to do so. That's scandalous. That's nowhere to be found, in Broz's time there was no such thing as shame and shame for the profession, for the Ministry, for this Parliament, and you will adopt this. If you adopt, it's an honor. It's really dark, dark dark. Look what's interesting. In organ transplant law, you've only had the treasure indicated that management will do some of the professional work, and now you've openly gone to the maximum here, you've reached the sky and the stars and you say - we'll do science and we'll determine what you're going to do, we'll buy from abroad what's worth it. This is scandalous, something like this doesn't accept, so it's an honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26598	It's been used 44 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 89, the People's MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic submitted. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26599	Article 89 refers to the affairs of the Biomedicine Administration relating to cell and tissue transplantation. In Article 89, point (14) is amended and reads - takes part through the expert panel on organ transplants, tissues and cells in the preparation of good clinical and laboratory practice guides and standard operating procedures for the operation of taking, distribution, transplantation, determination of conformity, i.e. tissue typeisation, or transplantation. The explanation of the SRS is that the amendment provides the necessary qualifications for the adoption of guides and standard procedures. The amendment provides the necessary high professional and academic calls, when it comes to monitoring scientific achievements. That is why we believe that the proposed amendment is realistic and objective and that it should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26600	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Health and Family have submitted an amendment to Article 101. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 104 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26601	In Article 104, paragraph 1, the number "12" is replaced by "6". The explanation - it is not clear why it takes 12 months for healthcare institutions to coordinate the organisation of work with the provisions of this law, when the law is proposed to be adopted by an emergency procedure, in order to create conditions as quickly as possible to ensure a uniform legal framework for the conduct of cell and tissue transplant operations. Why do you propose laws by emergency procedure? The explanation of the reasons for the adoption of the laws under emergency procedure is - for the urgent creation of conditions for ensuring a high level of health protection for citizens, i.e. the establishment of a legal framework, it is necessary to adopt a law on cell and tissue transplants by emergency procedure. Does this mean that so far Serbian citizens have not had a high level of health care? How can institutions not function if we don't pass the law by emergency procedure? How have they worked so far? In light of the reasons for law-making, you stated that the total number of reported tissue transplants in the transplant centres in the Republic of Serbia from 2000 to 2007 was the following: bone marrow - 283, cornea - 286, bone - 231, ligaments - 11; and in 2008 bone marrow - 124, cornea - 62, bone - 213, ligaments - 131. So the reasoning of the law is incorrect and the proposed amendment is realistically acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26602	Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic submitted to Article 105 of the amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26603	In Article 105, item 1, heading "18" is replaced by the number "12". It is completely unclear why it is necessary to pass the rules for the implementation of this law within 18 months, when the law is proposed under an emergency procedure. The fact is that at this point there are no appropriate legal regulations governing cell and tissue transplants, so this proposed time is extremely irresponsible. The Biomedicine Administration starts work at the latest on July 1st 2010, means within a year. You propose rules for the implementation of this law to be passed within 18 months of the start of work of the Biomedicine Administration. Then how will the laws apply? The adoption of sublegislative acts is due under this proposal by a member of the law in 18 months. Then how can you say it's urgent when the law cannot be applied without this central regulatory body? This is unacceptable and incomprehensible for all Serbian citizens. You wanted the law by emergency procedure, what are you waiting for, but you've already gone from word to deed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26604	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26605	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's to clarify the matter. We have, then, received explanations on why it is necessary by urgent procedure to pass these laws. Now Mrs Paunovic has told you nicely that the sublegal act under these laws will be passed 12 months after the entry into force of these laws, and that the institutions will then arrange their acts for the next 12 months to be in agreement with the sublaws. Then only after that will the resolution and authorisation begin 12 months after the establishment of the administration. This applies to transfusions, it applies to organ transplants, and this applies to tissue and cell transplants. Now you look at all this haste, yurba, and when will this start to apply? Let's have someone answer that now - then why is that urgent? We don't understand. She could not touch us with this light of reason, to enlighten us, and to understand the need to adopt such an urgent procedure. There's another law here that doesn't belong organically, you'd say man, it's this one about public health. On the side of what you used and for the first time the term "public health" has been used with us since 2005 by law and our long term of "national health" which is absolutely adequate and which should have remained, not to enter that controversy. When we talk about the urgency of the procedure, you see what is said - in order to create conditions as quickly as possible to ensure a high level of health care for citizens. This is cynicism. In a country that is in transition to emergency when we work abnormally during the day, at night and when we have a united debate of these laws, we achieve a high level of health care for citizens? What that high level seems to be known to citizens today who are going to medical institutions, and if we want to look at things from a scientific point of view and look at indicators, indicators of health, then it's clear to us that there's not a word about it, not a word. We would be too pleased here if we stopped, if some were a little modest, so he wrote to stop the negative trends that are present in Serbia and Serbian society when it comes to health indicators. Let me remind you, that's what it says in the statistical books that Batut published, that from 2002 to 2006, we have 1.6% raised overall mortality. In this general mortality are major chronic non-infectious diseases, and around these chronic non-infectious diseases, hypertension, heart attacks and strokes are preventable diseases that can be prevented, not treated, must be treated when necessary, by applying health promotion measures and prevention of these diseases, which are cheap bone benefit measures, not all in tenders, projects, such as this ministry and the head of this ministry. Of course, someone might tell me now again that I'm insulting, but I have numbers here as many tenders, so I have that report there by the financial committee on the million euros given for the purchase of sanitary vehicles, and there are not today either. Here, next to me, there's a report from the financial commission on the procurement of vaccines and cures for the darkness of the flu, which was obtained where the state was damaged to a significant extent. So we live, unfortunately, in one system that is everything but a modern health system. That's our problem. We live, unfortunately, in a country where we have a particular problem that this parliament, and the government in particular, will not understand the basic problem of the Serbian people and Serbian health, which is that it realizes that our existence has been biologically compromised, that we are less and less in these areas every day. If you've been looking at us for the last three years, there's only one town out of 30,000 people. That doesn't shrink. It can't, when they have laws like this, it can't be any different and better, it's gonna get worse. As for this law on these organs, we didn't want to point to a series of shortcomings and holes, we really couldn't, we should write a new law. No one here can see an autogenic or allogeneous application of stem cells and not mention the law, it doesn't interest him at all. To be clear, when you take blood, it's fashion now, and many are already interested in citizens, and it's possible to use blood from the child's umbilical cord that is born, both to keep some disease and organ reparations can be done with the child itself and with relatives. There's no law here. He's busy with the commercial. He here artificially suddenly allows private-owned banks to deal and win. He says in his principles that transplants are something he can't make a profit. He's getting himself into the mouth of a legislator with these contradictions. There's a string of inaccuracies. We didn't point to everything. The scientific work here is allowed when reproductive cells are involved, and in the law that is now followed by you will see-scientistic work does not allow the performance of experiments on these cells. Not to go any further, this is one, unfortunately, bad law. I don't know for what reasons we've experienced this fate, and this committee and my colleagues who are on the board, that we're so ignored by the minister, that he doesn't come to our committees, that he doesn't participate in a discussion on the board when we're discussing not other matters, but if we're discussing exactly these laws. If we get our team back layman, who can't even adopt there, or deny in one reasoned way what we claim to be, then we're in one big dead end.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26606	The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26607	Article 110 is amended and reads "this law takes effect on the eighth day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and will apply from 1 September 2009. ". The reason - since the law is proposed to be adopted by emergency procedure, and in the reasons for the law being passed - is to make it more urgent to create conditions for the provision of a high level of health care, i.e. the establishment of a single legal framework for the operation of cell and tissue transplant operations, which will then not apply until 1 January 2010. We are MPs in contact, especially those who do medical work or who did medical work until we became MPs, we are in contact with the citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens ask -- why such a hysterical speed to pass such an important set of laws from an area that many Serbian citizens mean not only health but also life. Serbian citizens today have been denied the minister's opinion and many today have expected to get answers to questions that have plagued them all these years. We, too, have been denied from the minister the answers to the questions we wanted to ask him or which, Mr Chiplic, we have asked you, so we believe that neither the amendments we have proposed have been adopted because of that. Some of these amendments except for the G17 Plus MPs weren't adopted for the reason the minister wasn't here. If he had been here, he might have understood our good will to improve this amendment law and address important decisions and important issues regarding organ transplants of cells and tissues and tissue transfusions and thus help many of our fellow citizens. Unfortunately, the SRS will not vote in favour of this bill, although in principle the SRS has nothing against organ donation, there is nothing against organ transplants and will always fight to pass one law that will address these issues in the most pathetic way and will not leave room for manipulation, abuse or human rights violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26608	Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move on to the 20th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROCEDURES OF BIOMEDICIN SUPPORT PLAŠINJA (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by MPs Predrag Mijatović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Snezana Stojanović-Plašić, Gordana Čomić, Paja Momčov, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Petar Jojić, Dragan Stevanovic, Sreto Perić, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazić and Milica Vojić-Marković. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee, as well as from the Government. The amendments were withdrawn by MP Aleksandra Jerkov to article 26, MP of the people Snezana Stojanović-Plassic to the article. 26, 27, 38, 40, 41, 46, 55, 51, 54th and 74th MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazić and Milica Vojić-Markovic as member 26. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26609	Ladies and gentlemen, here's a law that comes to us here, it's a very specific law, and when I spoke in principle, I said that we MPs of the SRS never perform as free shooters, that we always consult the opinion of experts in certain areas for which we receive legal proposals. Just by informing you, I happen to belong to the profession of this law, I work in a tertiary institution, and in preparation for the objection to this law I consulted top experts, prominent professors of the Medical Faculty, when I put these remarks on. I was surprised that no single amendment was adopted, because these are amendments to the profession, these are not amendments to Paia Momchilova, Paja Momchilov does not want to pretend that he was smart, and this is what he pointed out. Let's cut to the chase. This describes what treatment is about, so it is said that the procedure for taking, donating, processing, preserving, distribution, use, monitoring of serious adverse reactions in patients. What was the intervention? The intervention was just to establish a natural order. If you take one cell, then if you want to donate it, you must first process it and preserve it. We simply pointed out how order should be. What's our responsibility? We are responsible that this is a legal technical problem and that this does not change the meaning of this law. Two of our remarks - we've pointed out, taking, donating, processing, preserving, distribution, and then there's use. So there's no use before distribution. You have to distribute something to use. Here's a situation in life. If you took the logic of who answered me this way, I could say - let's take the car, simply. We could put the wheels on the roof. That'd be the car again, and would it be the car? Or, take the toilet, put the toilet on the ceiling, is that the toilet? We're just saying-- sort out those procedures that expose the donated cell into normal natural order. We're told it doesn't matter. Come on, it doesn't matter, but when it comes to side effects, we've just added that unwanted reactions in patients, there are no patients here at all, there are only cells here, as if cells matter in this law, as if they're not patients that matter. When we do these methods of artificial insemination, we can do evil to the cells and have unwanted effects, but we can also do it to patients. Who knows a little medicine, that's clear to him. We intervened to cover that, too. But we're told, it's technically just an intervention. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26610	Mrs. Vesna Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26611	I'd like to talk about this law on the principle of the time of the parliamentary group. We have not submitted amendments to this law, but I would point to certain problems. First, I'd like to talk about some organisational problems. It seems to me, as has already been said about previous laws relating to the areas of health and public health, these are all complicated laws and very professional, that a very large role is given to the minister. The minister is re-emerged in the organization of this business. He gives permission at any moment, lifts, addresses, which institutions, departments, so twice does, which departments of the health care institution, which health care facility. It's a figure of the Biomedicine Administration, which is later explained in detail what she's doing, but that's where the inspectors are mentioned. It seems to me that the minister is instead of the ministry, as the colleagues from the SRS have already turned their attention, it is the impression that this minister is some kind of almighty man who decides here, here in this case really about life and death, so it bothers me, and that primarily applies to members 14, 15, 16 and 17, it stands everywhere. It is simply giving too much authority to the minister himself instead of talking about the institution, instead of talking about the ministry, rather than talking about professional institutions. It's just that there's an alpha and an omega exclusively that almighty minister. I would also like to point out that, for example, Article 35, when it comes to organisation of work, it is said that these institutions or parts of institutions dealing with out-of-body fertilization, that they have coordinators and that this coordinator is real teams. If the right BMPO teams, I ask the question why Article 35 gives rise to the possibility that a healthcare professional has the right to refuse BMPO because of his or her ethical or objection to conscience, how they are in these teams in the first place, if they have an objection to conscience. If they don't agree with such actions, what they're going to do on these teams at all. I ask the question why the law is burdened with this, possibly by experts, gynecologists, doctors, those who oppose these teams, and they are specially organised in a medical institution or in part of a health institution that deals with this problem. Now who's the one who's here and has the objection? It's such a rare situation, and I really don't see why it's even legally mentioned when it's not supposed to be there if it's got a conscience objection. That's some organizational questions. He's got a lot of problems like that, and I think whoever's working on this bill can look at it and get that kind of unnecessary stuff out of this law. I did not answer for the word, I think Minister Ciplic can also take an interest in this issue, because from article 21, on top of that, in all the members, 24, 25, 26, especially, which I will specifically talk about, and Article 27, and further, it is mentioned that the right to biomedical aid in fertilisation only has spouses or men and women as partners. I think it's a big restriction and it doesn't suit modern tendencies, whether it's passed on from family rights, but we know that families today are not only father, mother and children, but that we have families that are only mother and children, only fathers, single mothers, single fathers, that this full family may be a minority compared to different forms of family life, so I don't think there's a need to be so strictly placed, so in Article 27, it says, the community of life of the 1st member must exist at the moment of full-cell entry or embryo into a woman's body. I believe that a woman can make such a request on her own and I don't see if there are any networks of institutions, what would be obtained through health insurance, but there are also clinics in private property and why women would be prevented from having or not having a partner, and without a husband, she has the right to receive this fertilization. Someone might want to play the role of motherhood without having a partner at all. What do we do now? You denied such a woman the possibility of her having a child, being a mother because she's not married, and because she doesn't have a partner. We know that even in life many women have children without partners, without fathers, because they want to have children even in natural circumstances, and I don't see why such an opportunity would be excluded here. I know that one amendment has been submitted to make this right. I looked at that amendment, but I think the colleagues in proposing this amendment were very intimidated and did not go radical enough, so they suggest that this possibility, that a woman get permission without a partner and without a spouse to artificial insemination only in some exceptional situations and when two ministers agree. What kind of ministers are they that I'm going to make arrangements with two ministers to do something about it? I think it pretends, if you allow this argument to be accepted, to turn it into a general law, not something specific where some women will secretly negotiate with some two ministers on such matters. It's completely inappropriate and such an amendment has been accepted, rather than accepting the modern view that a woman has the right to do so. I'd like to see, if my colleagues would support me in that, I can see that there are other fellow Members of the Parliament at that point of view, that such a right is allowed and is not limited. Not to mention the white plague, not to mention how hurt women are because they don't have children, that they don't have to wait for partners, husbands, etc. I think we got along and it's very important. Another thing I also wanted to draw attention to, where I see some kind of discrimination, is in Article 26 where it is said – it is forbidden to include in BPO a woman who, after years of life and in general health, is unable to give birth or who is not suitable for birth. I ask the question of what years it is, when it is established and whether another solution can be found, instead of putting one general view that there are some years when women rule out the possibility of them achieving that maternal role. Besides, if something like this exists, it's very vague. These institutions can now tell a woman who is 35 years old – I'm sorry, but you're an old woman to me, I'm not going to give you the opportunity to have children. I don't know what years it is, is it 40, is it 45, is it 35? This is very embarrassing that something like this is in the law, that we don't know what women are and what years, but when it comes to men, there's no limit, although we know that neither fatherhood nor motherhood are just biological phenomena, but that they are also social phenomena. I'm sorry, a father who would be 50 years old and who, looking on the biological side, could achieve his spermozoids with that kind of fertilization, but what if he dies, then we will support those children from our budget because he couldn't perform his social role. I believe that men should also be banned from being able to care for their children, as women also have biological limitations, when it is not safe to provide for their children after certain years. I ask Mr. Chiplic to get involved in this topic because this belongs to the area of human rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26612	The word is Mrs. Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26613	I will also use the time of the parliamentary group since this is a matter that requires a little more time to discuss. I agree with my colleague Pesic, and I must say that I am in a position to defend one of the amendments I have submitted, not agreeing with him. Why? Because before that, I submitted 10 amendments that I withdrew, as you have read, and the amendments I have submitted practically spoke of one right for a woman who is without a partner to be subject to this procedure. As I proposed to these amendments, simply in all the members mentioned, the word “marriages” was replaced by the word “persons participating in the biomedical assisted fertilisation process”. Why did I withdraw these amendments? Because in the negotiations with the Minister and the Government, I realized that there is too much fear that such a broad right to women and that they will either not be accepted, or that an amendment can be accepted that would thus restrict women's right to participate in this process without a partner, so it seemed to me, by the logic that art policy is possible, that we have to do something that is possible at this point. The minister managed, first of all, to think that there is no majority support for this possibility in Serbia at the moment, and that is finally the government's right to accept or reject the amendment, so I thought it would be better if we got something at this point than if we had nothing. Minister, I don't represent him now, Mr. Chiplic represents him, he didn't want to question what area it is, I would say, yours, and that's the question of some sociological, legal, social, psychological aspects. He only wanted to deal with medical aspects. I have to say that I have a number of counterarguments, starting with the legal issues of human rights, I would first appeal to the right to treatment, which cannot be denied to anyone based on marital status. It's an argument that says that women can't be denied any treatment procedures because they have or have no partner. Further, starting with some legal basis, of course our Constitution guarantees every individual the right to decide whether or not to have a child, and the Family Law defines that a woman decides to give birth to a child. With all this in mind, as well as numerous international conventions, above all the General Convention on Human Rights, but also the European Charter on Human and Minority Rights, but also the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, it is clear that this proposed legal solution limits women's rights and binds them to men who will decide instead. It is simply not to mention the Law on Discrimination, which, even in its criminal provisions, provides for punishment for all those who, in the treatment process, deny the right on any basis or discrimination on any basis. Reproductive rights are in the history of human rights dealing with relatively new rights, but they certainly include the basic human right to decide. Reproductive rights concern the right of each individual to freely decide whether to have or not to have a offspring. As such, they fall under fundamental human rights. Reproductive rights do not allow State or anyone else to interfere with each individual’s personal decision whether or not they will have a offspring. After all, reproductive rights concern the freedom of every individual to have unwanted children, but also the freedom to have wanted children. In that sense, I would really say that the first proposed legislative solution, which completely eliminated the possibility for a woman without a partner to be subjected to this procedure, was discriminatory, that this current solution, with the acceptance of our amendment, the amendment of my colleague Jerkov, and my colleague, Comic, opened that possibility, but limited it to some extent. In this case that we will have in law, a woman who wishes to submit to this procedure will have to have the consent of two ministers, the Minister for Family Affairs and the Minister for Health Affairs. That's not a good solution, but instead it could have stood as it stands in the bill, only a woman who has a married or out-of-wedth partner. It seemed better for us to give opportunity, to open the door, than to shut them completely. I think I made myself clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26614	Mr. Žarko Korać has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26615	When I was talking about this law in principle, I said that this law wasn't brave enough. I have to say, this law contains another stupidity. I don't know if you know, this debate is currently under way in Croatia. They happen to pass the same law. Croatia's president said he must sign the law passed by their parliament, that he will personally refer it to the Constitutional Court. They say the outside union of men and women must last at least three years. You don't even have that in this law. Who decides how long they've been partners? Three days, seven days, months, six years, 30 years. You have one completely undefined condition – what does a partner mean? You bring a woman into a humiliating situation that she needs to bring in a man and say, "This is my partner." You have a hole in the law, because every woman can come with any friend of hers, sure that every woman has at least one friend, a friend, and to say, this is my partner, and we're looking for reproduction. I would ask this question - if a woman who is biologically capable of getting pregnant and having a child can have an out-of-marriage child and there is no law that forbids it, how in this place you can reduce that same right so that she can have the child she wants. I'm completely unclear about this restriction. I think it's humiliating for women. I think women will find this hole, which I'm telling you about, in law and bring any friend of theirs, but it's humiliating. The decision that two ministers decide whether or not one woman is going to give birth is almost the most amazing thing I've ever heard. At least one minister. Imagine, one is for, and one is against. Ministers conduct an argument with each other whether or not some other. A woman from Cuckoo or the King, or Pancheva, can have a child. I know what you wanted. You wanted to fix this member. I don't doubt your motive, I'm not making fun of him, but it's amazing that the minister, who probably suggested that solution, said -- I'll accept if I'm the one who decides to give birth. You know what, it's up to the Lord God to decide. Imagine, the minister should decide whether a woman will have the right to artificial insemination. Guys, that's amazing. Don't suggest it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26616	Mrs. Plassic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26617	I'm going to use the line right now, because I think you misunderstood me. I don't understand why you're talking to me. I didn't write the law, and in your principle debate on the law, you said you would vote for the law, as I will. I tried to correct the law and I invite you to look at the amendments that I originally proposed, which did not restrict the right of the woman and I fully advocate that solution. I was simply trying to explain why and how a way out of a situation in which women were deeply discriminated was found here. I fully agree with you that even now this solution is discriminatory, if it can measure the degree of discrimination, but that it opens the door for women to have the right to this procedure in some situations without partners. Otherwise, they'd have no right at all. My intervention was just this guy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26618	The People's MP, Pai Momchilov, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26619	I'll spend a minute of group time. Somehow, it seems to me that MPs who make up the ruling coalition forget that they are the ones who decide which amendment will be accepted and who will not. If MPs or these three MPs have submitted an amendment where there is no provision that the two ministers will decide which woman can give birth to, I think they should have stayed in that position, and the majority would have voted in favour of the amendment, and not some amendment that is a matter of compromise, and the ruling majority is aware that this solution is not good too.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26620	The People's MP, Pai Momchilov, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26621	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, after this heated and interesting discussion, I would not now express the opinion of the SRS, but of course when we get to that amendment, you will hear that opinion. The funniest amendment I've ever seen, and one amendment that's more ignorant about human rights, if you will, I've hardly seen it. You'll hear that opinion, and I'm very much in agreement with previous discussions, except there's another upgrade. But let's get back to Article 3. Be careful what article 3 does? It defines what treatment is infertility and then says, treating infertility is a process of determining the cause, meaning, a diagnosis of infertility or a reduction of fertility and the elimination of these causes by expert advice. There's little help here with expert advice, at least in this area. Believe me, I'm a solid witness to that. Then drugs and other methods of biomedically aided from fertilisation. We're just expanding and saying - and climate-bain treatment. Why? When you make a diagnosis of treatment, then you have to give it complete. That's what the profession thinks. Climate-bain treatment is one recognised medical branch, as well as how an auxiliary and effective treatment branch is. We suggested that it be found here. What suits us wisely is now free to say a wise legislator. He says like this, the meaning of the expression "healing infertility" is defined. So, they know everything, and they also say, the treatment of infertility within the meaning of the bill doesn't regulate climate-bain treatment, so climate-bain treatment can't be an integral part of the concept of infertility treatment. Watch out, they, the silencers, they allow themselves the right to define what is the treatment of infertility. They say, we didn't put it in the law and it's no longer a cure. If that's true, but they don't regulate surgical treatment, they don't regulate advice, so they put it as a diagnosis. What is this logical mess in these people's heads? They gave the children shame. The children translated and wrote what had come and done. They have no idea, I guarantee most of these sitting here, what it says in these provisions. I saw it on the board, and it was clear to me. He reads autistic one text, and let the kids around try to pull things out a little bit. This has nothing to do with logic. Watch the next thing you know, there's again a numbered definition of what they mean, the meaning of words, so they say like this -- what's an embryo? It's the pearl again. You won't find that anywhere. To give school to children, children will get baptized and laugh. It says - in vitro embryo is an embryo outside the body of a human being. For God's sake, outside the body of a human being, an embryo. We intervene and say, to save the matter, the embryo in vitro is an embryo obtained by methods and techniques of biomedically assisted fertilization. Imagine a simple situation, you have an abortion, an abortion of a woman, and an embryo is found in the outer middle. Is that an in vitro embryo? They don't even know what the term in vitro means. In vitro means in artificial conditions, and when it's found in the natural environment, it's no longer an artificial environment. For God's sake, that means the lab. This kind of ignorance, and you're asking us to keep this quiet. We can't keep our mouths shut, Madam President. This dark auditorium, I'm really sorry about them, it really took someone else to come here to bear the criticism of this. Let's say, when you write it like this, outside of human being. A human being is human. So I can be, let's say, the man who produced the embryo. It's gotta be said to women, if that's what they're gonna say, so at least that's clear. We said, delete points 14 and 15. If you look at what they explain about hiercism. It's not used anywhere except in the ban, that it's forbidden to use fertilization, say, female sex cells with animal cells and that's hysterism. There's no mention of it. Why are they putting it here? To show how they know and to fool the people? When you read it a little bit, who knows what hierarchy is, they won't understand it, nor does he need this law to be passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26622	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm sorry, Mr. Velimir Ilic called before, and then you will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26623	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are today to discuss laws and amendments that are extremely important to Serbia, of which Serbia expects so much, of this set of health laws and of urgent procedure. It's an emergency for everyone, but for the minister, it's not an emergency, because he doesn't have time. He's got other things to do. Maybe he's gone to sea, and I don't know where he is, it doesn't matter. I can't understand the inconclusive nature of the government, that through these sets of laws that you've been going through for days, they don't find it appropriate for certain ministers to come and stay in this room for a while and hear the debates, say they're saying and admit it's wrong and it's not good. We saw the information law, it's a disgrace to Serbia. It's a shame. We're going ten steps back to protect some ministers who literally lost the compass. Now who could protect Tomica Milosavljevic when five mandates are the health minister, and in health care is black without any white. Ask health care professionals. This negative selection of people, and imagine how negative selection is when you bring people who don't literally know what to do in a health care facility. Recently at the hospital when I was listening to respected professors, when they were talking about the biggest shame I've ever heard that could happen, that one of the directors to be appointed, to make progress, asked after 15 years for the professor to fix his surgery grade. He got six, and now the man wants to be 10, not to spoil his average, because his colleagues tell him, well, you got a six, you barely got through. Now, after 15 years, he's bringing in the commission, and he's making it right. It's a disgrace that can't be described. A man like that comes to the head of a medical facility, the first man after a minister. Imagine how miserable that teacher felt, who had to come and sit there and fix it, and the whole administration that had to do it. So, that's true. The man has progressed, of course he will progress further. I'm sorry here, the director of the Moravia County Medical Center is not present in the O.R., and he's a talent unseen, for 17 years he studied medical school and finally after 17 full-time years in 18 he managed to graduate and spent the entire working life in an emergency room, only they could use him for it. Now he runs such an institution that unfortunately has so many problems and all the doctors who didn't want to join a particular party had to leave the medical center and move on. They've moved on. The others are the ones who have nowhere else to go. So, if I didn't repeat everything that's going on, if the tonsil surgery was a big risk, here's the woman before the C-section, I had a similar experience with my daughter who gave birth and so that people here couldn't do it again, etc. I'm more embarrassed to talk. I spent some time in treatment, so to see the diagnosis they gave me when they fired me, and again when I was back in surgery, it's like I was in two states, in two completely different institutions. It doesn't matter. One professor writes - a broken vein, and the other one writes - stress, and the third one says emergency surgery during the night. Not until we get to your hands anymore, because you don't know who's doing what anymore. Tomica Milosavljevic does not have the strength to come here to sit before the MPs and listen, at least to respect us, respect us as much as, but simply goes man, and the law without TV transmission in principle went to some night debate, of course that lasted, and we just remove ministers. Minister Dinkic can't come here anymore when he's defending some law. They can't come, some of them are running away from this parliament, and that's inconspicuous, and they want to be ministers. Here, Tomica, they are now preparing some reorganization, and he expects the sixth term to be minister. You saw for yourself, the biggest corruption, the biggest problems in the pharmaceutical industry. All those who have entered the pharmaceutical industry and who decide here, you have seen the purchase of drugs seven times as much as in Montenegro where tenders go. There's no tender here, not to repeat what we've been hearing and hearing, but they're all gathering in one place, and that's in G17 plus. What does that mean? That means they've completely mastered our lives, our health. What's the prevention -- none? You've read these days, we're the first to die in Europe. (President: Time. The sick, the unhappy, all you want. Instead of coming here today to discuss it...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26624	Thank you. You're out of time. Mr. Paja Momchilov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26625	Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic has rightly given this amendment. However, it will hardly reach out to the ignorant writers of this law and the essence of understanding, so that they will eventually accept this. Look, he's a short member of our amendment. It says this - the principles of equality are realized by providing equal conditions for both men and women for the treatment of infertility in the procedures of biomedically assisted fertilisation, in accordance with this law. It's consistent with this law all the time. The law is the law. So if it's not prescribed by law, you won't be treated. What did we just say? We just said - the principle of equality is realized in ensuring equal conditions for both men and women for the treatment of infertility. Not a man and not a woman, so it's not a single one, it's a plural. For the hard ear of someone who doesn't know Serbian, it doesn't mean anything. We've been answered, he says, and this doesn't essentially change anything, and it changes how. What does it mean to point out that there is a clear provision of equal conditions for male and female members, as well as for all members of both sexes? When we say this, when you say the same terms are for a woman and a man, so we have partners, we have a man and a woman, and so they're equal. But if all women are equal, that's not said. So these methods must be available when women are involved in all women, and when it comes to men, then all men. I wonder if it's just a technical intervention? Let's be a little more modest, that it's not an improvement of this member and that no one will adopt this. That's what we had to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26626	The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26627	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the principle of the BMPO procedure that Mr. Momchilov was just talking about, which is usually the principle of security. I will read this: The principle of security is achieved by carrying out the BMPO procedure in accordance with the achievements and development of medical science, with respect to the highest professional standards and codes of professional ethics, as well as the medical-ethical principles based on safe BMPO procedures. I'm a member as such. I don't have any objections. I asked for a new position to be added: The principle of mental, ethical and legal security is achieved by deleting all personal data on the donor after the completion of the BMPO procedure. There are other members on this subject later, but this is a crucial one since it's a start. Why am I asking you to add this attitude? The government thus says: Thus, the child initiated by the BMPO reproductive cells of the donor has the right to, among medical reasons, ask the Biomedicine Administration for data of medical importance relating to the donor of the sex cells, then the legal representative, or guardian of the child, with the approval of the custody authority, may ask for insight into data of medical relevance relating to the donor of the sex cells, and the healthcare professional who treats the child for medical reasons may seek insight into medical data kept by the Biomedicine Authority etc. So, what's the basis of the whole thing? A very large number of people, besides health workers, besides a child, have the right to look for information on who the donor was. I'd like to illustrate what this means in the future. Respecting all these reasons, and I don't think any of these reasons are strong enough compared to what might happen in the future, which, for a certain number of years, after the birth of a child from BMPO, will come into the office, will come to a doctor a guy or a girl 18 or 19-20 years old, with certain x-ipislon health problems, for which a healthcare professional may possibly consider themselves genetically transmitted. That's where the shock comes in. Because in order for a genetic examination of parents to occur, it must be reported to the child that the father or mother are not his biological parents. So he lived 19-20 years in conviction, which is perfectly normal, that it's his father and mother, and now at one, I have to admit, a very cruel way of saying that the man next to him is not his father or mother who raised him is not his mother. Could all these reasons be more important than one such psychic shock for a young person to find out after 20 years that his father or mother is not really his father or mother. I mean, if the pre-implantation procedure is fully respected, if all the analysis is done as necessary, and the BMPO procedure is accessed, in which case I think all the data should be deleted from the donor, so that there is no knowledge of the child that his father or mother is not his father or mother. One of the remarks was that there might be a family cross. Such a family crossing can be avoided by a sublegal act, that the donation of sex cells, male or female, can only be given once. It could be a sublegal act to regulate, and in that case, we wouldn't have the possibility of a family cross-breeding. I wish there was a health minister here, who could accept a amendment like this, just so he wouldn't later perhaps be carrying on a child's conscience, who, after this knowledge, might do something he shouldn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26628	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26629	This amendment is not professional-medical in the most part and is therefore not explained by fellow doctors from the SRS. It refers to the organisation of health institutions performing biomedically assisted fertilisation procedures. This Article 13 provides that this right is subject to medical institutions, i.e. parts of a health care institution under the plan of a network of health institutions, which brings the Government of the Republic of Serbia and health institutions established in private property, in accordance with the law. We have suggested that, in this second position, they be parts of the health care facility. Why -- because the principled attitude of the SRS is that we also advocate private practice, of course, parallel to the state? It is not a clear explanation of the Government that tells us - that the amendment is not accepted, given that health institutions in state and private property are equal in the ability to carry out BMPO operations if they meet the conditions laid down by the draft law. You further say - namely, the term "parts of a health institution" means larger organisational continents, consisting of a clinical center and a clinical hospital centre, such as clinics and institutes, not organisational units of health institutions, such as departments or departments. According to this argument, for example, the Zemun Clinical and Hospital Centre or the Bezanian Hair would not be able to do this job, or parts of these two clinical-patient centres, and we think on the contrary - there's no bother in doing so. Moreover, the tertiary level institutions of state property, unfortunately, have not yet introduced all the top methods of this method that we are talking about today and which is the subject of this law, in particular do not have these methods at the level that is present in the developed world, in the renowned medical institutions in Europe. On the other hand, in Serbia, we have affirmative private-owned institutions that can do this job and which are really according to the most modern methods trained to do this job. So we think it would be a good idea for this amendment to be accepted, and I'm sorry, Mr. Chipletic, which, although you are formally representing the Government here, you obviously do not have the authority of Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic to accept any amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26630	Your task force has wasted its time. Mr. Paja Momchilov. You have time as a representative of the parliamentary group, you can within that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26631	See what the problem is, here is such a discriminatory attitude in all these laws according to private practice that it's amazing. What's familiar? It is known that the best results achieved by these methods are in private health institutions. You take an explanation and you see that in private institutions 40% is a success, and in the clinic, unfortunately, where I work and what is the top of the pyramid 35% or even lower. So, here's this argument, when we're told again -- larger organisational continents. That guy has no idea at all, man. It is precisely in small organisational continents and in state institutions that this activity, in departments, is not done at the entire clinic. It's not done in the surgical room. At the conservative gynecology department, not but in a special ward called - for out-of-body fertilization. It's so ignorant and so grumbling that it really doesn't make sense. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26632	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 14th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26633	Minister Tomica Milosavljevic's arrogance is so expressed, Mr. Chiplic, and believe me, Dr. Paja Momcilov is one of the best experts in gynecology and obstetrics, and that the health minister as a Serbian radical, he could not assume on himself the kind of responsibility he has done with this law, and in issuing permits, and in assessing the psychophysical state of women, and in limiting the years. Absolutely the law is discriminatory. From countries in the environment, here's the reference to the case from a few days ago, I was really very happy to hear that in a small place on the coast of Montenegro, the method of artificial insemination, the lady gave birth to twins at the age of 48. Her husband is almost 60 years old and it's really proud of that place. This is an example of how professional work actually has been done, and artificial insemination at a private clinic can be achieved. Leskovac and Professor Miodrag Stojkovic, who is a professor, I must point out with special attention that, the Kragujevac Medical Faculty, one of the best geneticists in the world, has done so much, not only for Leskovac, but, of course, with the help of then-President of the Assembly, and later Mayor Goran Cvetanovic, and in what discriminatory position this member of mine and the amendment are talking about, because the minister is going to decide, the example of Leskovec speaks. Dr Goran Cvetanovic was president of the anti-sterility commission until three days ago. He was removed for political reasons, but he saw what was done here. Because of the intention to pass this law and because of the recommendation of the Ministry of Health, directly Tomica Milosavljevic, there are so many restrictive rights, especially when it comes to women, that now the waiting list with, as he told me today, almost 200 potential couples, or women who want to have this method of their offspring, is reduced to only 26. Then what are we talking about? How do we want to fight the white plague and help these people, especially women and future mothers? The law is extremely bad and I think it will be found before the Constitutional Court because of these provisions that cannot possibly be accepted and are not in line with the Constitution of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26634	Mrs Stojanović-Plasic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26635	I'm reporting for this amendment, because the mention of Leskovac, the city from which I come, as well as the clinic that successfully produces artificial insemination in Leskovac. I just want to say that I don't know what Mr. Goran Cvetanović thinks, who certainly isn't an expert in any field of medicine, because he's never worked in that profession, but I want to say that as an MP from Leskovec, I've contacted the clinic experts, specifically the directors of Leskovec's artificial insemination clinic, and I've asked him what he thinks of this law and asked him to give me objections to this law. They said they had no objections and they thought the law was good.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26636	Miss Natasa Jovanovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26637	Dr. Goran Cvetanovic, of course, is an expert in his field, because he is a specialist in the field of internal medicine and, Mrs. Stojanović-Plavsic, you do not have to have your own animosity and personal and political failure to project on Dr. Cvetanović, now in this situation when we are talking about something really something that needs to be a human debate and, above all, the tendency of all of us to help mothers, married couples, spouses, partners, what we were talking about in a termological sense, so we cannot agree with the legislator, and what it is and who it is that someone who could be. Therefore, it is clear that Mr. Stojkovic's coming to Serbia alone, and with the great involvement of Dr. Cvetanovic, not something that I wanted to point out so pretentiously because it is a Serbian radical, Dr. Cvetanovic, but because of the fact that I am making a clear comparison, and Dr. Momcilov was saying when it comes to the profession of a private clinic, which is less capacity, in a city from which you come, that can be achieved by such truly amazing successes and therefore the need for the minister to accept, or the government and you in the day of voting the amendments that I have submitted. Because of the fact that all of us are meant to allow children to be born and women, or future mothers, to be supported by the state and these legal proposals, and this is certainly not a good one.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26638	The word is Dr. Zoran Mašić. Your task force has three minutes and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26639	The Honorable Presidency, I just wanted to make one correction, one untruth that was brought here to deny. Dr Stojkovic did not graduate from the Faculty of Medicine in Kragujevac, Dr Stojkovic graduated from the Veterinary Faculty in Belgrade and received his doctorate in Germany in Hanover. He was primarily in veterinary reproduction, but also human, so Dr. Stojkovic is a veterinarian for primary education, not a doctor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26640	Professor Stojkovic is a professor of the Faculty of Medicine in Kragujevac, which is said, you did not hear well. Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26641	So, Madam President, people would have to follow up on what I'm saying if they were to report that they would possibly correct me. You said it well, as a regular professor of Kragujevac Medical College and once a dean, I must really point out that the Kragujevac Medical Faculty, headed by Professor Nebojsa Arsenijević, who is the dean of our university, is doing everything to improve co-operation in all areas of medical science. Not only is Professor Stojkovic, who came and ended up abroad from college, and now a professor, and has chosen to be at the Faculty of Medicine in Kragujevac, but he is a Kragujeva Medical Faculty, you know very well, the first university in Serbia to sign a contract with the Military Medical Academy in Belgrade in the scientific and research field.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26642	On the 14th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by the MP, Dr Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26643	Article 14 refers to the issue of a licence and is there again a knowing and almighty minister, because the conditions, that is, point 8), as regards the space, equipment of the staff, or BMPO teams, as well as the other conditions laid down in Article 1 and Article 2 are prescribed by the Minister. The amendment I have made is to add a committee headed by the minister after the words. The conditions regarding space, equipment, staff, or teams for BMPO, should, in view of the professional complexity, be clear from these very words, are being carried out by a commission that contains a number of different profiles in its composition, such as gynecology and obstetrics specialist, biologist, geneticist, and since it is conditions, may also be an architect for internal editing. The explanation I received, I must admit that my notion is insurmountable, because it says, among other things, in the Law on the State Administration, the "Official Messenger" and the one which, in addition, has been established by the Minister's authority to make regulations and to decide on other issues from the Ministry's work. My amendment is not in collegiate with this decision of the Official Messenger. The minister is in charge of the commission, but the minister cannot decide on both the equipment and the space, both the staff and the location of the taps, lamps and other things, so that Mr. Milosavljevic really takes on so much ingenuity that it goes beyond normal reasoning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26644	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the title above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment. Mr. Paja Momchilov, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26645	As in the previous amendment, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic and Mr. Petar Jojic feel that it is not necessary to renew the licences for five years, and yet the wise writing that sends us answers tells us this way - the permit is needed for the reason that these methods are developing intensively and that it is necessary to maintain a level of quality of good clinical practice in this area. He also says that there will be a review of the fulfillment of the conditions when it is restored. All the branches of medicine are developing intensively, there is none that develops intensively, and this general attitude is not at all an argument. Secondly, what are the annual reports provided for in this law? Third, what will the inspectors do? He should have written the laws, i.e. He didn't write the laws, he wrote the answers in the department of social work at the Ministry, and he didn't read the law himself, to read the jurisdiction of the inspection, where it says he's checking the fulfillment of the conditions. So when you have a lot of permits, then you have a lot of opportunities to get licenses and get something. It's a source of corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26646	Member of the 23rd Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Here you go, Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26647	I repeat, this is getting boring. In each authorised health institution, the Director shall determine the coordinator for the process of these methods, and here it is said - with the previous consent of the minister. For God's sakes, the minister to allow in some institution, right here in Leskovac, who's going to be the coordinator? I guess the director, who's going to make a decision on who's going to be, can do it without the minister's permission. What does this look like? This is a terrible usurp, this is a disease, this is what a sick mind says, a narcissistic, sick mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26648	Member of the 23rd Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26649	It is that the procedures of the biomedically assisted fertilisation referred to in Article 1, the minister, on a proposal from the expert commission, prescribes standard operating procedures and good clinical practice guides. We've talked about this a lot. They can't do that. They can't do that. They can't do that. The administration, as our legislative system makes it, I don't want to talk much now, she's a professional organ, they tell us here, and then she's the authority of the administration. Where can you get an expert opinion? You can get, I repeat for the hundredth time, only people who do it directly can't bring standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26650	Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26651	It's very simple, it's a little hard to follow this quick rhythm that you impose. Now I'm just going to read you article 24 to see. It is said in the first point: BMPO procedures are carried out with the aim of giving birth to a child. That's not the point, is it? And if we make it right, and we say it like this -- they do it with the purpose of giving birth to a healthy child, without disrupting the health of their parents, it doesn't work, they won't adopt it. You'll vote for it. There's nothing human I can tell you but shame on you. Here, vote. If you're not going to say we need to get to a healthy child without jeopardizing parents' health, then I don't know what to say. What do you say to me? In Articles 4 to 12, it says - there are no clearly stated objectives, does not lead to unacceptable health risks for the life and safety of the mother, or child. So I'm being referred to as members from 4th to 12th. If you read those articles from 4 to 12, you'll see they have nothing to do with what I'm saying. Only Article 4 says it does not lead to unacceptable health risks. What's acceptable, and what's an unacceptable risk? That's what I'm asking you. Therefore, a clear, brief and imperative provision is ours. After all, we asked to delete attitude 3, which is not the goal. See what it says in point 3: BMPO procedures, as a rule, use the sex cells of spouses, or out-of-marriage partners, unless this law sets out otherwise. The goal of doing so is not. Do you distinguish between what is the goal and what is what is used? You don't know that. You put your grandmothers and frogs together. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26652	Mr. Momchilov, the reasons for your dissatisfaction do not lie within me, and you are angry with me today, look for them on the other side. On Article 25, the People's MP Dr. Pai Momchilov, who has a word, submitted the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26653	Now we've reached Article 25, you've confused me a little. It's not addressed to you, I'm clear and precise, and I object to you for voting this kind of nonsense. Why? By the force of an unprincipled coalition that is already becoming a disgrace. It's just my grudge. Of course, you didn't write this, and you don't know it. Now, look, we're detailing the location of what's written here, and it's called the use of full cells, and we clearly define what it looks like in the profession. BMPO procedures primarily use their own sex cells of a married couple or a partner. When BMPOs cannot be used for the purpose of successful use of the sex cells of one of the spouses or partners, or BMPO is applied to prevent the transfer of severe hereditary disease, donated sex cells may be used. Of course, in the last attitude we add just one more supplement – that modern achievements of medical science and practice need to be handled with these egg cells. We don't have time to explain this in detail, I don't really have the opportunity to explain this in detail. Everything here is accurate and clear. If the title goes like this, then we say nicely what that means. What we need to say is that we, by the origin of the sex cells, put it into three groups, we have spouses interested in getting a BMPO child by method, and then we have partners, we have donors, we need to make that clear, we just tried that, and it's also rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26654	The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Komic and Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. Mrs. Gordana Komic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26655	I use the time of the ZES parliamentary group for discussion in detail, regardless of the amendment I have signed with MP Aleksandra Jerkov, Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, which was adopted by the Committee on Health and Family and by the decision of the Legislative Committee that it was legally possible to become an integral part of the bill. So at this point, this most controversial member of the Law on the Treatment of Infertility has changed the procedures of biomedically assisted insemination. The essence of the change in this most controversial article was that it practically, and theoretically-practically, prohibited access to the treatment of infertility by the procedures of biomedically assisted insemination of women who themselves, alone in the definition of this law, alone in the definition of Family Law and alone in the misreading of the right to access all types of treatment. Our joint efforts to change this approach have begun on the Committee on European Integration and I am wasting my parliamentary group's time wishing to thank the members of the Committee on European Integration from all parliamentary groups that have shown an undeniable consensus on the need to change that provision in the law. So, in the discussion that was held when the law was in principle debated at the session of the Committee on European Integration, it was very clear that all MPs believe that a woman must have the right to access the treatment of infertility by the procedures of biomedically assisted insemination, and that it is up to all of us to find for this moment the best possible mechanism to make it possible for a woman. The reasons why the proposer at that time defended the view that a woman should not be allowed access to treatment was contained in what the definition of family in Family Law is. And I was again pleased to experience and participate in the debate, which was attended by MPs from almost all parliamentary groups, who asked government representatives to separate what it is to be a family and the rights arising from the Family Law when it comes to family and what is human right to access to all possible types of treatment, in this case a particular woman's human right to be treated for infertility by the procedures of biomedical assisted insemination. The remarks heard during the debate on how to formulate the amendment, how to find a solution that will be feasible and applicable, stand. Could it have been a better solution? Probably. I already said in the debate on the Law on Education and Education that it's not scary what can always be worse, it's terrible that it can always do better, and that's what makes us go all the way forward and that's what's likely to change this law on the treatment of infertility by biomedically assisted insemination in the near future. A particular reason why I would like to talk for another two minutes about the amendment adopted, and thus a changed member, is the provision that, on the consent of the Minister responsible for health affairs and the Minister of Family Relations, if there are particularly justified reasons for this, the exceptional right to treat infertility by BMPO will also have a full-time and business capable woman who lives and fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 1. I wish to the representatives of the proposings and the authorised representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the stenogram, to send a message that they will once a month be asked whether criteria, impartial, automatically, have been adopted on what this last order in the amendment I have signed means. Any idea that our willingness to compromise and re-obvious will, which I think is the best news for Serbia, which 250 MPs of the National Assembly recognises that there is a woman's right to self-preservation of infertility through the procedures of biomedically assisted insemination, will not be able to be reciprocated to a regular monthly report, which I will ask the ministry of which you are the degree of completion of the formation, call it executive power, however you wish, a little concerned, and when it comes to the application of this article, or the amendment that this member has changed. Why am I asking this to mark with a speech at the assembly session? Because I think this is an extremely important law. Unlike many, who, when the laws come from education, laws from solving the problem of people with disabilities, about this law on the treatment of infertility, which they say -- this is not political law, so it's easy for us to talk, I think this is the most political law we can talk about. Because with the joint effort of all the members of this congregation, we organize an area in a completely new way, which has not been arranged at all. Let's argue about it, we have opposing arguments, but there are no more policies than the policy we put together through our political parties and political ideas, through our direct solutions, out of the will that in one legislative project, one regulation, we find that we think the problem of someone we care about will be the best solution. I can't lie that I can't imagine what it's like to want to have a child, and you can't, I can't imagine it. I can only imagine the frames in which as a woman or as a man, who wants a child, move emotions, and a child cannot have. But it's not fair to say that I can actually experience empathy. It's not my job as a communiqué. Our job together is to create conditions for a vast number of women and men in Serbia who have a problem with successful insemination to obtain offspring, to regulate them, to create conditions for that offspring. This law, on the treatment of infertility by biomedically assisted fertilisation, when infertility has already been established and when there is very little chance that any other mechanism, other than this, results in women or men, women and men getting healthy offspring together. How important will it be to monitor how this law is applied? It will be, according to the reports, that I will seek, as a national MP, not only from the Ministry of Health, as it applies this law, and in what way, by which rules, which will make a decision on women who are exclusively from the articles of the law, or from amendments that we have signed together, but also from the Guardians of Citizens, to see reports on how human rights and women subject to our amendment are monitored, and couples who are by definition family law, whether they are married, out of wedlock, temporary, or how they are already defined by Family Law, so the Protector of Citizens and the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. The application of this law is a major test for executive power in the Republic of Serbia; for two reasons - firstly, which is completely newly governed by one new area, secondly, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not have before it 128 or 130 MPs who support it in what it does daily or in the adoption of the bill, but has 250 MPs who believe that a woman who herself has the right to access treatment and that the legislator must enable her to do so. That's great news for Serbia. I am prepared to listen to all criticisms relating to the lack of radical force of amendments adopted, but what is good news to me is that finally the adoption of laws, amendments to laws and regulation of important areas has become systemic in this country. People's MPs have been respected, whether they belong to the opposition or to the ruling majority, and the solutions that are being amended by amendments to the law will be monitored, controlled by joint work and opposition and by the ruling majority. Once again thanks to the ministry of four of these or almost all of the laws in the field of health in the agenda of the Assembly, I hope that at the amendments and additions to some law or the application of the report on how this law is applied, we will also see Minister Tomica Milosavljevic and that he will be able to give us all possible answers to what our questions are about how the law is applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26656	He's got a word for it, Professor. It's a bright step.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26657	There are two problems here, and there's one folk saying-- you pushed the fox, you drove the wolf away. There's two things that show up here. First of all, if this whole problem is very trendy, pay attention to what context. This is a law on the treatment of infertility, and we're discussing something else entirely, the right of a woman to artificial insemination. So the fully conscious legislator tried to play the right theme. Two, if you want me to read Article 26 carefully right now, there are formulas here that are directly dangerous. The right to the treatment of infertility by BMPOs shall be subject to the adult and professional capacity of women and men who live together in accordance with the law governing family relations, spouses, or non-marriage partners, who, given the years of life and the general health status, are able to perform parental duties and who are in such a psychosocial state. Since it's a little closer to my profession, psychic conditions can be, what are these social conditions? That means they have to have good social status so you can treat them with infertility. That's one hell of a thing. So no social status determines whether anyone can be treated for infertility, can be unemployed and have low social status. You are now introducing one discrimination completely unclear. Social status in practice means economic status, even though I'd be very understated that I'm not, I'd say you're introducing here now that poor people can't do this. You have a 27 here. This law states uninterruptedly that conditions are needed so that someone can be treated for infertility, or fertilization, in this way. The only condition can be medical, including mental state. Anything else that burdens this law produces this discussion, no economic, no other. You can't set these conditions for people in marriage. If people want kids, you have a president of the Assembly who's a neuropsychiatist, he's not the only one in the O.R., when two people who are being treated in a mental health clinic want to stay in a different state, they're suggested they don't have children, right? You can't forbid them. What law, what state body can? It's said -- there's a chance that your child might have an illness, and then it's a suggestion from a psychiatrist that they don't have children. You here want to control a process that the state has no right to. This is an example of ethics, which broke into a small door. Not to talk about arrogance. Now I'm talking to my colleague Plassic. I said I'd vote for this area to be arranged. This is a pioneer law, but you know what, I was wondering if I should vote, since the Ministry refused the amendments to this topic. If the minister had accepted only two amendments that, behold, your group of MPs were proposing, and in agreement with him, that has not yet happened. It shows one desire not to ignore parliament, sorry, we represent the public and citizens of Serbia. Looks like someone doesn't care what we have to say about all this. This is all unnecessary. It was enough to say that the medical reasons, the conditions, as you will, are those that determine whether this woman, or marriage partners, or outside partners or women themselves are to be given that convenience, all this rest burdens this law and produces this discussion. Why are you looking for all these conditions when they don't exist with other spouses who normally have children. It's completely unclear to me what the motives are to have a story about who can be held here this far. Look at the situation in Croatia. There, the Constitutional Court will decide that because they said something more ethically, that an outmarriage only applies if it takes three years, because they said what the condition is. You don't even have that here. Who's checking to see if they live out of wedlock. When a man and a woman come in and says a woman wants to artificially fertilize, you say great, you're partners. How do you know they're partners? Did they bring confirmation, two witnesses, like they used to for abortion? I don't know if you know, there should be a witness there, to support it if the girl is underage? In other words, this is pointless. This shows, in principle debate, I know what I said, I said there was no courage. When you say for this moment, what is this moment? This is 2009, this is a modern state, you're emancipated women, we're emancipated men. What moment do I have to wait for the woman to give the right she has naturally, i.e. That she can have a baby, and this time someone's helping her have a baby. She can give birth throughout history by not having a permanent marriage partner. How can that be taken away from a woman? It was sometimes the women who gave birth to extramarital children who used to hang on to a pillar of shame and call them bastards. It's over. That historic period is over. It's a little absurd for me to defend women's rights, and if there's so many MPs sitting here, they don't get up and defend that right. I'm sorry, this is not okay with what this law is burdened with, I'm sorry, except Vesna Pesic and someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26658	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26659	I continue to use my parliamentary group's time for discussion in detail. Thank you. It is obvious that the debate on women's right to access infertility in the BMPO procedures is starting other topics, and I agree that a whole list of these other topics should be the subject of our debates under certain laws. I want it to be completely clear what we're talking about. When we have a healthy couple, who is healthy in the best sense of that word, and wants offspring and gets offspring, the state does not knit except in the obligations it has towards the newborn child, to the mother in pregnancy and in the postpartum period. So the state can't get involved in whether you're ready or able to have a child, if you're a full-year-old and if you're legally willing to have a child. But unfortunately, when that's not the case, then you have to have regulation. What regulation? This goes from spectrum, anyone can have free access to treatment for infertility through BMPO procedures, through various more complex procedures, to the most complicated, which will essentially make the right impossible. And you and I agree that we are prone to the simplest procedures possible. With the desire to really take this as a joke, I'm going to suggest that it would be good if a lot of fathers and mothers were tested somewhere before they got kids, as scary as that sounds, and it's really a joke, and it's really far from having any sense of regulating that kind of thing. We all mean that we know that we have children and that we can raise them. The state doesn't get involved in that. What Duško Radovic would say - when the state starts messing with your marriage, then you miss marriage, as he said - when you find someone who can love, that's all you have to do and nothing else. This area simply escapes from what we assume to be our shared knowledge and obligation to raise offspring. We don't go from being bad parents, we don't go from having healthy children. On the contrary, we are starting from the fact that our marriage, out of wedlock, whatever community, occasional, permanent, will be successful, full of happiness, harmony and love, that we will have the offspring that we will be able to train for life, and that is governed by the law minimally, and that when it ceases to work. The questions that have been raised here - what is an out-of-marriage community, what it means to be a partner or not, everything is regulated by Family Law. Let's change the Family Law, if we think those provisions aren't good. There was a big debate about Family Law when we passed it. I supported the amendment of my colleague Anita Beretic, who reads and now reads so, Article 5. Family law - a woman freely decides to give birth. There have been heated discussions about various provisions of Family Law, because after the Constitution, Family Law is the only law that applies to all members of society. This law on the treatment of infertility by biomedically assisted fertilisation refers to one vulnerable part of our society. It refers to women and men who have no other way of legally reaching their offspring, legitimately and legally reaching their offspring, except that we, the legislator, arrange this area in the best possible way. Did we arrange it in the best possible way? I don't want to repeat myself, but to make a firm promise to the Ministry's representatives, they will be questioned monthly by the nuclear power to see how this law applies. Because it's good according to the Ministry of Health, it's good for the Assembly to be informed about what's going on, and it's best for those interested in the provisions of this law, because everyone who's still interested in the bill on the treatment of infertility can be helped by the procedures of biomedically assisted insemination once it's adopted. The state is involved in both adoption and foster care and care for unsettled children, and in caring for those who have no one to care for, no matter where they grow up. The state gets involved in these social relations. Is he messing around in the best possible way? I can't know that until there's been this kind of debate much more in the National Assembly. That's why controlling the application of this law is incredibly important. I repeat, in the end, it's incredibly good news, but for me personally, a story bordering on the edge of pride at a group of people who have mandates in the National Assembly, that we are passing the dispute over basic human, female rights. Declarative-declarative, through the provisions, we can argue. Unlike other parliaments that make such laws difficult to deal with and the remarks that the Constitutional Court decides in the neighbouring country, thank you. No, thank you. We want this law to be decided by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and in accordance with the Constitution. We think that's much better than the Constitutional Court assessing whether we did something right or didn't do it right. Thanks, of course, to all of us sitting in this congregation, I am not talking at all about the ruling majority MPs or parties of the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26660	The People's MP, Dr. Pai Mamchilov, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26661	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sitting here responding to these legal standards that we've been suggested, but I'm up now. I got up right out of a pietate to a Serbian woman, to my late mother, and finally to all the mothers of the world, because my whole life I've devoted myself to giving birth. This is an amendment that deeply offends all women of Serbia and I don't think it should have been accepted in this form. Look, a lot of big words are said, empty words, that mean nothing. First, this is inapplicable because the law speaks of the treatment of infertility of biomedically assisted insemination. How are you gonna get diagnosed with a woman who doesn't have a partner so we can treat her? Article 27, if you read it, both members 3 and 41, if read carefully, say it is impossible to apply this. You're talking about women's rights, human rights. Shame on you, if it's human rights, then they're universal, then they don't have the ministers to look for here and negotiate. I asked my daughter, she's an adult, what does this look like to you, says to you – to the shriveling minister. It's the minister's blasphemy that two men empower them to, to watch what they do, to communicate and to agree, to enter into the most intimate woman and decide. You're talking about human rights, and where's your man? Why did you write only a woman? In Serbia, if you have sterileness and infertility, half of them are women, half of them are male, which is why you don't allow this possibility to be allowed by a man in the original version that you didn't have the courage to bring here. Be courageous and say: We believe that it is necessary to help a woman who lives alone to come to the offspring and make her own family, but then she cannot be exceptional, then she cannot be particularly justified. This is a terrible discrimination. We had pregnancy interruptions and then we had pregnancy termination commissions, and we ended it. Mira Markovic returned the law to the parliament at the time precisely because of commissions, due to violations of human rights. And what are you doing? You're the Orvellian world. You're not Europe. You're dark.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26662	National MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26663	I'm not going to respond to these qualifications, except maybe I should remind you how you discussed it on the Health and Family Committee. From what I've heard, there's been a mockery of providing women with no partner with the right to artificial insemination because it was insinuating how it would allow gay partners to have children. Is that your attitude, or is this the attitude you express today, total freedom for a man to decide independently and freely about children? I'm completely in agreement with what some colleagues have been talking about, that the state absolutely shouldn't interfere and I think I've already said that in my first presentation. As I think Serbia can make much better laws than it does at this point, but unfortunately it can't bring perfect ones, I honestly don't think anyone should interfere with the fact that a woman living alone can adopt, say, a child. I voted in favour of the Family Law, which unfortunately did not enable it, and I voted in favour of many laws in this assembly that I knew were not perfect, but which provided one more right, edited one more area, made it possible for Serbia to move on a little bit. Of course, we all have some ideals when we make decisions and, of course, my ideals are far beyond what we're doing right now. Unfortunately, there are other people who decide. We don't make all the laws ourselves, and we're aware that we can't have an ideal right now. It was simply an idea when it was decided on this law. What I want is to find it absolutely offensive that some colleagues are saying that the minister told us what to write. Instead of speaking that way, I would much prefer that more parliamentary groups or MPs have submitted amendments to these members of the law. To this member of the law, the amendments were submitted, originally, only by my colleague Jerkov and I. Well, where were all the other women's rights defenders when it was time for the law to change and the amendments to be submitted? Now we are the most responsible because we managed to take a step further with our colleague, Komic. Yes, the European Integration Committee has discussed this. The Health Committee as the parent board discussed this, so why didn't the Committee submit an amendment to give the right, with deep respect for all women of Serbia? Please, let's not give lectures when the plenary sessions are and when they're being broadcast. It's not interesting to talk on boards, because there's no transmission there. So, I find it offensive to any insinuation related to the fact that the amendment was adopted because it was filed by someone from G 17 plus or by someone from European Serbia. Simply, the facts are such that the only amendments to this article of the law have been tabled by G 17 plus and European Serbian MPs. The minister could not adopt some amendment that was not submitted. I'd really like to have full agreement on these issues in the future, but before the time is up for the amendment, then maybe we'll do something more. I owe my colleague from the DSS, who called me for a moment, to have the assembly majority decide on the adoption of the amendment. True, but we were together in two congregation majority in previous councils, and I would like to be given one example -- when the assembly majority voted in favour of an amendment that was not accepted by the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26664	Mr. Paja Momchilov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26665	First of all, it is not right for someone who is not present during the entire debate on the Committee to convince what was on that committee. It's lucky we're recording everything, and we know exactly the attitudes. Why not come from a gay, lesbian environment like this to gain offspring. That's what I said it was a final coincidence. Why run from it, so to speak. Why hide in this way? You say he didn't discuss it, so he didn't have time, we work day and night, five laws, eight hours, and you didn't defend it on the board either. Where were you to defend it, even Mrs. Comic wasn't to defend it, the one you planted, poor Jerkov, her, and she shouldn't be mixed here, but you planted the coward's eggs like this and ran away. Which you didn't defend on the board, Mrs. Plassic, this, so that you didn't come to talk to us. I'm telling you that if you have the courage of a citizen and such a representative of civil rights, then don't tie this kind of horror into all of this. Why were we being held back? Because this law cannot be dealt with with by these members, without the editorials of other members who are clear and explicit, to talk about treatment, where all other methods cannot give results, to be applied. It was immediately clear and we said so. There's a third thing, you have to change the law on family, which you call here. So, what you're saying, it's a little bit like your party and it's cheap demagogy. It's not just demagogy, but there's a thread that's going through, a thread of dishonesty. How? You'll see in the next amendment that's been accepted as a G17 company and what it's all used to do, that's what I'm going to say when I explain the amendment. Just enough to tell you. You are not a representative of women's interest, you have disgraced women, you have offended them by courting ministers and your minister, who should agree and allow exceptional situations. How's he gonna evaluate it? Say you, stand up and say what an extraordinary situation this is or say this which is particularly justified. I didn't hear that. I don't mind, and if anyone even belongs to that lesbian association to get to that right, if circumstances change, if the laws change, if this congregation decides to make such a thing possible. Now this congregation does not allow its legal regulation, and you know it well. What are you doing? You're courting yourself in a cheap way to this population, not in a real way. You are not fighting for their true interests, but at the small door, here we have told you, but with such fences that you have offended the dignity and dignity of those persons maximum. It's an ordnance that you put in this provision and you need to withdraw it. If you had any dignity, you would have taken it back.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26666	I really appreciate it. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go, Mr. Miatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26667	Ladies and gentlemen, this is an amendment to Article 26...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26668	Mr. Mijatovic, I apologize, Mrs. Plassic's injury was advertised by Mrs. Plassic, so I have to give her my word first, and then you will.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26669	President, I really think this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, because you thank a colleague who tells me I have no dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26670	Thank you. After every discussion, I thank you, and here I had a reason that had nothing to do with you, it has to do with Mr. Momchilov's position on freedoms. So I really think that's one big step that's been said here, but I just don't have the right to say this, so I should take my word for it so I can talk. Mrs. Plassic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26671	Yes, but my colleague has spoken offensively to me and I think you should react in such a situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26672	Mr. Momchilov, you really have one tone that's wrong, you have a tone that's wrong, I've been content to one part of your statement occupied, I think you should address your colleagues in parliament with respect and please do so. Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26673	Just two sentences, my tone, you know, it's not that important, it's what I say. And you see, I can't stay calm when someone resents something I said, wasn't even there, that I wasn't defending something, and the first one, who's the initiator, didn't come to defend it, and I can't say what I said. I wasn't insulting, but I was stating the facts, one by one, but that's why the tone's up, I can turn it off, but then you won't hear what I'm saying, there won't be any of my thoughts then.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26674	Thank you. In case someone estimates that he has injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the rest of the day to vote on whether or not I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Mijatovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26675	This is the continuation of Article 26(3) which states that BMPO is forbidden to include a woman who, after years of life and general health conditions, is not capable of giving birth, or who is of age not suitable for birth. I wonder how it is possible for a legislator to put such an unspeakable and completely pointless attitude. What does that mean? Who will decide whether a woman is capable or whether age is appropriate? Who determines what age is appropriate? However, the legislator had to respect and consult and profession to put in one of these attitudes. I put the amendment to it, although before that was the amendment of Dr. Momchilova, who was similar, but I did not hear him talking about it, that the end of the text was added to "a period not suitable for birth" and that the text was added "or after the age of 45". The law cannot remain inconclusive, it must be given some time limit as long as BMPO can be applied assisted fertilization, artificial fertilisation, etc. After all, the average year in which a woman enters menopause is 45 years. Every conception after that is minimal and natural, and the sustainability of pregnancy is even lower. It's completely pointless to deal with artificial insemination after 45 years of life. What was meant to enter this law is precisely the member that Dr. Momchilov had, which is up to what year a woman could donate an egg cell. Every donation of an egg cell after 35 years does not suit the profession, science, medical principles, because the egg cell in a woman after 35 has far less quality skills. The very maturity of the cell is different. There were even words at one point, if years of life could be determined to which this method could be applied, that it would be cut off by the Constitution and by Article 63. It doesn't stand and it's not true. “ Everyone has the right to decide freely about the birth of children, ” says article 63. The Republic of Serbia encourages parents to decide on the birth of children and help them do so. When he gave this provision to the Constitution, he meant the natural birth of children and natural insemination, according to the same principle as Adam and Eve here, but he was not involved in artificial insemination, so that it could not even be applied in law to this member of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26676	Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26677	It's similar to what we've heard before. The right to treat infertility through biomedical insemination procedures, the legislator says it is of an age that is not suitable for birth, cannot be allowed to apply these procedures, and we want to be absolutely precise and say this: "Addition is added – an egg - a woman who gives an egg cannot be older than 35 years, and a woman who is donated to an egg cannot be older than 46 years old." The amendment shall not be accepted for reasons proposed in Article 26(3). The bill provides for the possibility that, based on an expert opinion based on medical science and practice, as well as the health status of each individual woman, decisions shall be made in accordance with the age of life of a woman on the application of the procedure. What we've suggested, it's an absolute point of view of science. If anyone wants to be a European, they can read some European law. Take the Belgian law, take the Czech law, so we don't move on, you'll see the same provisions. They're not random. The quality of the egg that is taken for donation after 35 years is not and does not produce results. That's what science says exactly what percentage and that's why it shouldn't be taken. We have women going into menopause around that period, and there you also have, is that right, the problem with this whole process of doing it? Why? Medical reasons led us. Over the year 46, besides having a lower quality of fertilising cells, you have a far higher percentage of complications in that pregnancy. Fatal outcomes ten times higher, hypertension ten times higher, and because of that, if the basic medical principle is to receive non-nightly, then this should also be adopted. And what we're told is that this isn't professional, it only serves them honor, and again the legislator -- shut up, there's no answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26678	Mr. Vladan Batic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26679	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think the debate on amendments without the presence of the Prime Minister definitely makes any sense. Some new parliamentary practice has been introduced here, and Madam President, I urge you to influence that this does not become a definitive and final practice, because the presence of ministers is more necessary when discussing details and amendments, if they already have a shortcut to work, then they should not attend to the debate in principle. Now it's decided on a certain version of the legal text. This means misbehaving MPs and ignoring parliament, demeaning the National Assembly, and then, on the other hand, you have a complete virtual end of television transmissions. I don't know what happened today, today are the main cock fights in Vietnam -- why isn't that transmitted through the RTS program? Because the assembly became an object for the fun of the downhills in some nights, at the time of the first roosters and night vampires. That doesn't make any sense anymore. Because this whole controversy would not be guided in this way if the health minister was present, with all due respect and respect for Mr. Chiplic, his point still needs to come to the agenda. This is how MPs ascend to prove their arguments, explain and justify their views, and there is no one to listen to them. Then it turns into a completely aimless controversy and for that, Madam President, you bear responsibility. Warn the government, which was ready to constantly call parliament, that parliament is one or the other. The other day, in your presence, Mr Bradic gave himself the right to say that parliament should be civilised. The Minister of Culture, who is thus uncultured to allow himself to express such an attitude. In principle. As for the text of the law on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I think we should be as liberal as possible when it comes to legislation in this area, because of the brightness of things, because of some of our traditional, Balkan myths, reserves, walls, blockades, etc. Let's show one dose of liberalism in the domain and the area where we need it, both because of the birth rate and because of everything else that's usually been broken down and talked about here. So I think we should show a high dose of liberalism and flexibility. I also believe that it is necessary to reduce the right of the executive government, the competent minister, to make him an arbitration officer. It just doesn't make sense. This should be an affirmation of a specific kind of human freedoms and rights. If this affirmation is going to narrow, regulate and define this or that minister, then it is an anti-substantiated idea of the law, and then it should get in the way. This is the position of the Democratic Party of Serbia and my personal position, with another appeal to you -- to generally call upon the mind of this government, which is probably involved in overcoming the ropes, debates and polemics that this devastating, anti-democratic, anti-Civilisation and anti-Civilisation law will be voted upon on the agenda by Mladjan Dinkic's next blackmail or ultimatum?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26680	National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26681	I think, Madam President, this is an amendment to Article 28. That's my amendment. You read Stevanović. I don't want to talk about Stevanović, and I think my amendment is to Article 28. In fact, to Article 32. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26682	You're really wrong, no problem. You want to follow your amendment to article 32, right? The 32nd Amendment was filed by MP Pai Momchilov, and this is where we arrived.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26683	It's that famous amendment. Look here, the SRS has submitted an amendment and believes that in a professional body that exists in a health institution that is established, that a quality work should be done by an expert called psychologist. Look, that amendment hasn't been adopted. An identical amendment was adopted by Mrs Plassic. What's the matter with Mrs. Plassic's amendment? If a man looks, we have submitted our amendment to the 20th, and Mrs Plassic has submitted her amendment, you can see that, is that right, July 18th, and the amendment was to delete "social worker" and insert "psychologist". So, the 20th, we give our amendment in this form. Look at the miracles, the 20th in 8.55 now appears again Mrs. Plassic's amendment and says, she is changing it – leaving "social worker" and adding "psychologist". Should I comment? This is miserable, now remind me. So, we've given the amendment and it's said to be a correction. This is not a correction, this is the second content of the amendment. In the first version, he was supposed to be a social worker, and he was going to be a psychologist. Then when someone saw that this didn't work out and he made a lot of mistakes, you better fix it faster or better, and then we got this. I wish Mrs Plassic had defended this amendment on the Committee, too, I would say, I have noticed. Here, nice chronology and simple insight into all this you see. So when the amendment of the SRS, which is originally good and which is accepted, is that right, in version G 17 plus, then we can party, go to that extent to hate to show and not accept an identical amendment. Let me remind you that there was a similar situation in parliament, and then, after a long debate, you said that both were adopted. What are you going to do now? This is unfortunately one blindness of people, who really don't already choose what they're going to do, so that, on the other hand, they're disabling. That doesn't look like the Serbian Parliament. It's not an insult, it's a invoice. We kids aren't, we understand life, but we don't accept things like this in life. The Serbian radicals have never done this, they will never be served with this, and those who serve it should be honored.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26684	Mrs. Snezana Plassic-Stojanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26685	I do repeat my insistence once again that the congregation safeguards its dignity. I will never speak to any MP in such words. I am a psychologist and, of course, I have submitted an amendment that implies that when medical and psychological aspects are evaluated, a psychologist must participate and that was the lack of this legal text. If I were to take care of what the SRS is doing and what amendments they're making, and if I really read every amendment they make, my life would be pretty complicated. I don't do that unless I'm very interested in it. Nor was I able to know what amendment the Radical Party parliamentary group submitted, nor did I, to be perfectly honest, take too much interest in it. If we were guided by the logic that our colleague was talking about, we could come to the conclusion by the same logic that my colleague prescribed my amendment, because I'm the amendment where the psychologist was inserted into the team by 18, and he's the amendment where the psychologist introduced 20, and that logic could lead to the conclusion that he prescribed it. So that's not what I'm saying, it just happened that we've submitted similar amendments. Yes, it is true, in the first version, I felt that the social worker was not necessary, because in the first position of this article 32, it spoke of medical and psychological aspects, and I felt that social aspects were not particularly important, but after my fellow social workers pointed out that I had kicked them out of the amendment and that they also felt that there was room for the work of a social worker, I made an adjustment allowing the commission to be next to the obstetrician gynologist, biochemistry specialist and social worker, a lawyer, to be a psychologist. It's just a whole story, and I think it really sounds like, and I'm not going to use the qualification of one again, and I could, what does it look like when someone constantly suspects it's his head? But I agree with my colleague's finding that one and the other amendments should have been accepted, since they are identical, there is certainly no dispute.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26686	Thank you. Dr. Pai Momchilov answered the floor, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26687	It's short, the truth works. You're saying I might have prescribed your amendment, I haven't. You kicked out a sociologist, that would never have occurred to me. Don't mess things up, be precise. My suggestion was that we knew why a social worker was needed and we didn't think to throw him out. So if I'd prescribed yours, I'd say - we're kicking out a social worker, we're putting this one on. Therefore, Mrs Plassic, it is not what you say exactly, it is true what I am saying, and how you act as a system of merged courts, you have proved and proved to be the president of the Health Committee in the last term, where you were the direct link between Mr. Minister and the executioner of his orders, unfortunately. In this committee, thanks to the integrity of my colleagues, the honorable from the position and from the opposition, the situation has changed and the situation is completely different. Now there are people who think for themselves and don't have to carry out the orders of a man who's gone too far in his affairs to run this ministry and the health system in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26688	Mrs. Plassic, all the terms that were sent to you today I have experienced on several occasions and I think these are reactive affirmative relations towards us, that actually Mr. Momchilov has great sympathy for the two of us. The 32nd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go, Mr. Miatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26689	Thank you, Madam President, but I'm going to have to disappoint both of you. You, and Mrs Plassic and Mr Paja Momcilov, seem to have copied this amendment from me, or from the Serbian Progressive Party, because if you believe it by dates, I handed it over on July 15th, so both before the SRS and before the G17 plus. I haven't kicked out a social worker, I've kept him, I've even given him a better chance, and that's to add a psychiatrist and psychologist. Some of them didn't like the shrink, and someone didn't like the psychologist, so they made amendments. I think, if you're looking at it, you should have absolutely accepted the SNS command, and normally not the two amendments that were given before that. I'd like to read the explanation given on this amendment. He says - since a psychologist is enough to determine the psychological resemblance of a person subject to BMPO procedure, inclusion of a psychiatrist involves diagnostics, or artificiality of serious psychological disorders, which is not necessary. You as a psychiatrist know that some diseases are considered genetically transmitted, therefore the place of psychiatrist is, not a psychologist who will evaluate the psychological profile, and the place of psychiatrists in any case precisely because of the transfer of possible genetic communications to offspring. Therefore, the SNS amendment is more comprehensive, more complete than amendments G17 plus and the SRS, and should have accepted it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26690	Thank you. The word is Dr. Zarko Korach.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26691	Madam President, this is quite a minor remark, but since this debate has begun, there are no psychological problems but psychological problems. I beg you, psychologically belong to science. If anyone has psychological problems, he's tortured by psychology as a science. So, in the explanation, something illiterate is written. I beg you, there are psychological problems, and psychologically, they have my students, so they're plagued by science. I'm just saying it's in an explanation, nothing to you, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26692	Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Here you go, Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26693	In Article 36, we asked that Article 5 be deleted. What does that 36th member say? The duties of a responsible doctor. What's that attitude? All information the responsible doctor provides in the presence of another person from the fertilisation team. You see, all the information that the doctor and patient exchange, especially in this area that is related to the genital sphere and to these methods that we need to help our patients, are confidential nature and intruding in the deepest intimacy of patients. Saconsky, is there any reason for two doctors to even be present? So a man could say like this -- if two doctors on that team need to be when information is given, one won't be able to say yes, it'll miss something, so this one needs to be a cursor, or maybe horrendously they should sing in a duet when they give information, maybe that's the idea of who writes this law. The nature of the information that penetrates the patient's deepest intimacy should still not allow this. This information is no more complex and significant than other patients with treatment, such as tuberculosis or AIDS. And there are far more complex things and there are no prescriptions for two doctors to talk to such a patient. Why would he be here? You see, we have one principle in practice. If the bearer of genetic translocation is the father, what are we doing? It's revealed, so the offspring can get hurt. He's the only one who's told him, and he's the only one who's told him the doctor, and he's not spreading any more, and this insufferable explanation, and I don't have time to read it now, I really won't, I really won't, I have four minutes, but I need to have something left to do, if I were to read this insufferable explanation, you'd see it has nothing to do with reason, knowledge of medical ethics and expertise.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26694	Member of the 43rd Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26695	What did we say? This article says to convince it for the sake of time, that the donor can only give his cells in one institution, in one bank, and nowhere else. We say this - let us allow the possibility, then say – extremely, with the permission of the administration, that it is allowed to be given in any other institution. Why? Here, a practical life. You have, like, insimination. It's a common method of bioaided insemination. What happens? The patient and his wife are being treated, he's giving the material, they happen to fight with doctors in that facility, they're unhappy with the treatment, and they say, we want to go pick another institution. They're right. Why aren't they allowed to donate these sex cells of a man to another institution? Either, there's a haemorrhea in a medical facility and it's destroyed material, or it doesn't happen to have a hararium, you don't have what you expect as a result. Why aren't dissatisfied people allowed to change the health care facility and give in another, under strictly controlled conditions, with the permission of this particular Biomedical Research Authority, or what they call it?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26696	Member of the 54th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26697	In article 54, you have a license from the Biomedicine Authority. For what? For genetic pre-implantation research. I touched that problem a little bit. Why should one administration, the authority of the administration, be careful to give permission to a pair of excellant diagnostic methods medically. What does that look like? It's always been something that's been a matter of profession so far, and doctors are, of course, all sworn in by the Hippocratic oath, we have both ethical committees and committees, we have our own rules of profession. Why is it going here now that some administration needs to give you this? I don't understand that. According to this, we would have to, for every more delicate diagnostic and therapeutic method, when it comes to other things, ask permission from that administration. Kidney transplants can also be about how interesting situations are in dissent and compositing, and then also about asking permission from that administration. Therefore, I think this is completely excessive and that the Ministry and the administration are not the professional institutions to do this. This is where the Ethics Committee needs more than an incompetent administration. When you don't want the Ethics Committee, and we thought he should be along with the profession, that's enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26698	Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26699	Scientific and research work on reproductive cells and early embryos is being carried out, we said, according to the Helsinki Declaration, good clinical practice and this law. What did the legislator say? They are implemented in accordance with this law, he didn't even say this law, he gave a general position. It says – scientific and research work on reproductive cells and early embryos is carried out in accordance with the law. What law? About science, this law? We're now wondering, I'm pretty sure then, according to the Helsinki Declaration, good clinical practice and this law, I'm adding that to get as many things out as possible. What do wise people who wrote this to me say? The Helsinki Declaration has been brought in for sixty-six years, and do they know about the revision of the Helsinki Declaration? Yeah, she's about human trials. But if you have an embryo and you baptized it human, isn't that it? Isn't good clinical practice something that's more accurate? That's the kind of answer I get and, really, this is ridiculous. Do you know what they told me on the board? He says, "Yes, this is what the experts have done." They were working, the Commission was working. It's that commission that gives an expert opinion. Why am I against the commission to have an advisory role? They worked, and theirs was not appreciated. What did they deny them? The last reading, that's all, and they promised to install all their attitudes, and they didn't install them. What I read to you and what I read to you are exactly the views of top Serbian gynecologists and obstetricians.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26700	National MP Predrag Mijatovic submitted to the 64th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26701	The chapter says – Searching, i.e. providing data by the Biomedicine Administration. This is directly related to Article 12, which I have explained to Article 12, which gives all the situations where the donor data can be provided, whether it's male or female, irrelevant. In my amendment, I asked for attitudes 1, 2, 3 and 4 to mean, all of these options to be deleted and only to be left to the physician who conducts the BMPO procedure with those reproductive cells to seek insight into the data managed by the Biomedicine Administration, which are of importance for the health and safety of the person subject to the BMPO procedure, i.e. to prevent damage to the health of spouses, i.e. out-of-marriage partners and children born through the application of the BMPO procedure, there is the end. So, after that, as I said, I think that the data needs to be deleted and that when it's all respected, I repeat it again, when the complete procedure is respected, when we know the entire genetic structure and whether there are genetic diseases, hereditary diseases, or not, that the data is erased. I'm afraid that on the conscience of the Biomedicine Authority, or this legislator, there will be some child who will be unhappy and perhaps even in some act of psychic detachment, because of the knowledge and destruction of the whole life he's had, that he can kill himself. Delete that data. Not all of these reasons are needed, not important enough in comparison to the feeling of the person we gave birth to biomedically assisted insemination. We've made those parents happy, and let's not make a child unhappy by letting him know one day if his father and mother are the number at the Biomedicine Authority, which contains personal data that we may not give him legally, but can find out another way. Let's delete it when the pre-implantation procedure is respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26702	National MP Predrag Mijatovic submitted to the 67th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26703	In the context of what I'm saying now, I also think you should delete all of these, that it's just to pre-impletional genetic diagnosis, and that the other data that the child might find out is erased.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26704	The National MP of Pai Momchilov submitted to the 67th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26705	Here are the competencies of the Biomedicine Authority through biomedical assisted insemination procedures. We intervene in point 3), since this administration should determine and control the fulfilment of the conditions for performing procedures in health institutions with regard to space, personnel, equipment, as well as teams. We're just suggesting, in accordance with modern experiences of medical science and practice. Someone might say it's too high, but we, as the administration is imagined, are afraid that the administration is not professional enough and will not be professional, just giving them one obligation to be in line with the attitudes of science and profession. Why? To give the profession an opportunity to rebel, to say – it says it has to be by these principles, so that they have something to catch up on. Then we say, "we're erasing -- we're issuing a license for pre-implantation genetic diagnostics." They don't have to take it out and do it. The license is the waist's been working and working so far, I said for what. Of course, in point 12) - monitors scientific achievements in the field of biomedical insemination and proposes measures for their application in the Republic of Serbia; what I have already explained - can't management, can't people who are there, people who are directly involved in this work, people in science, from profession, who should be involved through one commission, call as you will, experts, and be represented by five prominent people, because all expert groups and teams make decisions, by considering, by discussion, based on facts and consensus. It is a scientific method of work and profession that must be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26706	The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 71. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26707	Here, if you strictly want to look and be honest with yourself, according to the truth, then you're looking at criminal provisions. In Article 61, it is numbered what is included in the opus that can lead to punishment. Then in Section 2, you say, if the piece in Section 1 is done according to a minor, the perpetrator will be punished by imprisonment for at least three years. In the end, what do you say? Any person involved in the conduct of a criminal offence referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article or who has been committed by an organised group will be sentenced by a prison of at least five years. Logic, spelling, and the meaning of words suggest that it is a small discrepancy. He can't be here for five years, if there's something in article 2 that's supposed to be three years old, he needs to take a look. What do we need? They're making it up. They say it's a repeat. Read it, I can't understand such an explanation. If they wrote -- whoever's doing the repeat crime in Sections 1 and 2 or the crime is done by an organized group, they'll be punished by prison, then they'll be right. The elemental truth is written and hard and kept on doing so. It hasn't been seen recently. That really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26708	Parliamentarians Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted the amendment together. Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26709	I thank you, Madam President, with one request - after the amendment can I speak as a representative of an authorised group?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26710	You have seven minutes and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26711	In Article 73, we have suggested that the words "three to ten years old" are replaced by the words "five to 10 years old", believing that it is necessary to tighten the criminal policy when it comes to obtaining benefits, offering services to a surrogate mother, because this would send a clear message that the state strongly opposes this type of crime. At the end of this debate today, what is going on as a thread, speaking of all five of these laws that we discussed today in particular, the DSS has made it clear that it is not against the idea of adopting such laws, but it is against it in the way these laws are passed. I'll say a few things - these laws are necessary and it's not controversial, but the way they're written, because we saw in the debate that they contain elements of discrimination, non-compliance with the civil sector and, ultimately, giving authority to ministers or ministers to decide on basic human rights guaranteed by the Constitution. To start from the beginning, it seems to me that the first problem has arisen over the first draft of the law, which is the law on public health. I talked about it in principle and asked the question - is there a secret health besides public health? Unfortunately, the resolution minister here isn't here to answer those questions. It seems to me that, by some way, the Minister of Health's behaviour and what's going on in the system, there's also secret health. What's this about? There are two kinds of events, one species happens within the system. What happens within the system is the reactions of many patients, they are written in the newspapers, when patients are talking for help, and there is no help. Those newspaper articles are some shooters, they're waiting lists, waiting lists for life. Another type of problem concerns what has been done during the past period, during the five mandates of Mr Milosavljevic in Serbian health and for a period of seven and a half years of his health reforms. Let's see where we are. This whole set of laws we were at the beginning of the debate arguing, offering and warning of the fact that there is no one that is the key, something that should be before these laws were passed. It's a law on the protection of patients' rights. What do we have today? We have a surrogate named protection of patient rights. Let's see who this person is. That person is the man who is employed in that facility, to whom the patient has objections. Will this person represent the interests of the patient or will he represent the interests of the institution? That's the key question. The answer comes that in some institutions the book of complaints is split, that patients are missing, that patients are running around the halls so as not to express their disdain in the way the system works. It's even written by the Republic Citizens' Protector and you can see it. A large number of complaints against healthcare professionals. Any reaction from the Resorving Ministry? There isn't. I would remind you that the resolution minister made it clear in June 2002 that the first and basic mission, since the objective of the policy is to put the patient at the centre of the system, would be to adopt a charter or a law on the protection of the right of the patient. Who's protecting him today, what's the patient's right to do? Why do patients pay for medical services? Who shows what your income is? Do they exist in what is called the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute? Do MPs even know the fate of these couples, how they spend? I'll remind you that on behalf of health services in 2002, 28 and a half billion were taken out of the patient's pocket. Patients pay those services for which they have already allocated money in the name of basic health insurance. These are the waiting lists, these are the death lists that exist in the Clinical Centre of Serbia. The other part of the issue of Serbian health is donations, loans, and what has been done about it? Tomorrow we will discuss a type of credit with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 10 and a half million euros. The loan is required to form, finally form into an information system in Serbia's health care. See what the lender insists on on that loan. He insists in Program Two on respecting the principle of fighting corruption. Why is this done by a lender when the health minister says corruption is a controversial phenomenon in Serbian health care. Is the lender making it up? Is it true about the state of Serbian health? Were there any donations before, were there previously loans related to the same thing? Yes, it is. What is the fate of that money, no one knows. When we receive a report from the Republic Health Insurance Institute, or a financial plan, can MPs influence this plan? I can't. We're taking him into knowledge. We can comment on it, and can we change it in amendment? We can't. What's the fate of it? Take a look at the cost of medicines and how this price for medicines is formed. It is formed by taking the average price of medicine applicable to the countries of Italy, Slovenia and Croatia. What is the rate of contributions per capita in these countries? In Italy it is 1,700 euros, in Slovenia 2,000 euros, in Croatia 1,200 euros, and therefore you form the average price of medicine that buys the Republic Institute on the burden of residents. What is the rate of detachment per capita in Serbian health -- 250 euros. Who made what decision, and why is it such a price? Is there control there? Are there tenders? No transparency, the system is completely nontransparent. You don't know anything in the system. The system's working very badly. Are the basic laws, like the Health and Health Insurance Act, in line with the Constitution? It's an obligation. It's not consistent. These are your key problems. What's going on in the debate? It happens that on the parent board, the minister doesn't show up, when he talks both in principle and in detail, he hears here in the debate room in principle, gets angry, goes away, and he's gone. He sends you, Mr. Chiplet, to listen and to put up with this. That's what's key. The product of such a state of the system and of such behaviour of the minister are such laws as to be produced. That's the consequence. In order for Serbia's health to be better, the minister must leave. Without his departure, there is no shift in reforms. We've been listening to these stories for seven and a half years. Strong funds have been invested in four regional hospitals - Vranje, Kraljevo, Valjevo and Zrenjanin. What's an epilogue of that? When there was an unfavorable case that a pregnant woman in the King died, when a relative asked the director of the health center for documentation, the answer was that it was an official secret. What kind of official secret is that if a pregnant woman dies during childbirth? What kind of official secret is this? It's the condition of the patient's right in Serbia. It's a state of function of the system. That system is unsustainable. What's the characteristic of this system is that we don't know what our public health spending is. It's a two-billion-dollar figure. I warned you about extra standard services, I warned you about the outflow of funds paid in private offices. When we add that up, it's not two billion anymore, it's three billion. Therefore, it is not our health spending of 7.5% of GDP, but it is 12 and 12.5%. So hidden it all, and then things like that happen, and then the press is buzzing, and then the patients are unhappy, and then there's no reform anymore, and then there's a real illusion. We're being sent laws that don't bind anyone, what our health laws are. A law that is completely meaningless, inapplicable, therefore, an illusion that something is done, that something is created, and the situation is as it is, catastrophic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-27-0.u26712	We have some nice information. Cavic won a gold medal in Rome. Let's say hello. Mr Batic answered the word, however, you used the right to report within five minutes. You only have the right to report in five minutes. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Mr Minister, I would like to thank you for your presence today, for your cooperation with the Health Minister and the Ministry of Health, and I especially thank you for making the proposal for the first time to regulate very complex and delicate areas. I thank you, honourable Members, for a very high-quality debate. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
