ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19339	I thank you, just one suggestion, that is, to inform the technical character, respected Vice Presidents and Mr Ministers, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, in Article 6. The draft error law indicated in Article 6 that Article 4 should enter into force on 1 January 2009; it is a typing error, as it is said to be on January 1st 2010. This error has been corrected in the review of the provisions that are changed, so in the act we have before us. Otherwise, it's a technical mistake, which will be a matter of legal-technical editorials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19340	Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) National MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19341	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, I believe that, Mrs Comic, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, and that Article 27, and that the practice that you are introducing here every day at Parliament sessions, which has gone one step further than the nonsense we faced when we discussed the interstate agreement between Russia and Serbia. At the time, Mr Jeremic did not have time for parliament, and you felt it was normal for parliament to discuss the agreement, although it is the responsibility of the government's authorised representative to explain to us why this agreement is significant for our country. What is the purpose of the debate that we begin by sending a representative of the Government to Parliament, and thus to our public the message that Serbia will function as they do, in a culinary way, past each order and beyond the public? Who will explain the urgency of the procedure under which this law entered the Serbian Assembly, the importance of amending and supplementing the Law, and what can we talk about if our debate is limited by two or three shura sentences containing amendments and additions to the 2007 Foreign Affairs Act? We need an explanation for this debate, because in the accompanying materials we did not get anything that could make our discussions of quality. Why are changes and additions to the law being made? What are these security jobs that the Ministry wants to do? What are some decisions made with a return fact? No debate will be serious if it is conducted in this way. Please take care of it. Your duty is to protect the integrity of this institution, and it is being threatened daily, among other things, by the way that you think it is possible to work here. If the representatives of the government come to the Assembly to keep their mouths shut, then you are obliged to explain to them that there are no rules in force here in their parties. They can act like that in the Serbian presidency, but here, they have to account for what... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... What accounts are made in every normal country. No foreign minister starts discussing the law like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19342	Thank you. People's MP, no harm done to article 27. I am getting older on the application of Article 27. A representative of the government is present and your remarks on whether, as much and as much as the government's representative is talking about, they should be addressed to him or her, not to me. I ask you not to abuse the right to receive a word based on Article 100, because it gives the right to speak of injury to the procedure, and does not give the right to speak of a political stance, the conduct of a member of the government or anyone else. Article 27 obliges me in relation to order and peace at the assembly session and the presence of a representative of the government, whether the minister whose ministry has proposed to the government to send a bill to the Assembly or a minister proposed by the government to the Assembly to explain and defend the law. Everything you wish, from your right to a word, through replication, questions and everything else that are parliamentary rights, is my duty to give you the opportunity to get a word and talk to the minister, but I warn you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure, because the provision of Article 27 does not allow the chairman to order, determine or prescribe when the Government representative will report for the word. The Rules of Procedure prescribes that a representative of the Government may answer the word whenever requested and the time of discussion is not limited. Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is sought by MP Nenad Prokic. Here you go. Excuse me, MP Nenad Prokic has raised the Rules of Procedure. You have a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19343	Mrs. Comic, I've come forward as planned by a new procedure here in Parliament, member of 100th and member of 101st. You didn't understand me, Mrs. Comic, and that's our basic problem; we can think differently about some of the topics we're talking about here in parliament, but we have to understand each other elementally. If Parliament is to this end devising itself, as it has been devised of your actions over the past few months, Parliament's democracy is also being devised. If we don't want to live in a democratic order, what order do we have to live in? It would be good if you could take care of that. There's no point in having a debate like this, the way you allow it. On Friday, we discussed 14 agenda points in the time foreseen for one item of the agenda. We discussed 14 laws in the time foreseen for one law. Fourteen laws in 13 minutes. You are uniting what cannot be united. You've released this law by emergency procedure in the assembly procedure, and here's a government official who hasn't found fit to explain what we need to talk about. This is not enough, Mrs. Comic, for argumental discussion and conversation. You didn't pass us the necessary materials so we could do that. That is why the minister is obliged to declare in his address to parliament everything we need in order for this debate to be serious. Read the amendments and the additions of the Law, and you will know what they are talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19344	People's MP, you abuse the business rights of Article 100 and the content of the reasoning that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure quite insist that you do not have to read the Rules of Procedure in order to be able to use the rights of the Rules of Procedure. You have received word in the Rules of Procedure and read what your obligation is, as a People's MP who calls for parliamentaryism, democracy and rules, what is your obligation when you get the word. It is your obligation to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure which occurred during the procedure immediately after you asked to explain the nature of the infringement of the procedure. I ask the MPs not to earn it, since it is also a violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which binds us all together to polite conduct. [[Telephones from bench: Time.]] Therefore, the MP requesting the violation of Article 101 would have to explain in which the infringement was committed, and it is neither a member of the 27th or a member of the 21st. Please, with a warning, do not abuse the Rules of Procedure for your political views. The Minister is available to you, please welcome the Minister in replication, conversations, whatever right to the word implies, but you cannot abuse the Rules of Procedure when I, in case you repeat the offence, do not warn you. Do they want the word representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups? Lazic Nikola has filed a report, and now I have a application for Nenad Prokic. Do you want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, infringement of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19345	Dear Mrs. Komic, I hope that the day will come when you, as part of your doctoring, which, as a rule, always lasts longer than the application of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure itself, will come to acknowledge that some time this Rules of Procedure is truly injured. I have never heard from you before that you have admitted that the Rules of Procedure has been injured in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19346	For the simple reason that none of the MPs explained that the Rules of Procedure had been injured on any basis. When you say there's been a misdemeanor, 101st and 104th, please explain what the injury is. You will be spared my explanations only in two cases: or if you really explain the injury that has occurred, or if I violate the Rules of Procedure, and do not give an explanation, which I am bound by the Rules of Procedure. It's the only two cases I can come up with, and I'll spare you the explanations. People's MP Free Maras wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19347	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Art. 27 and 104. Mrs. Comic, you have just, in response to Mr. Prokic, made one mistake. The bottom line is that MPs advertise, or point to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, as was the case the other day. A colleague from the SRS just threw it away, you warned him not to throw it away. The other day... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19348	People's MP, please choose words when you try, using your right to explain the violations of the Rules of Procedure, to call for parliamentaryism, democracy and the rights of the Rules of Procedure that belong to you. No messenger has been warned during this session, and I ask you not to make false statements. That is why I warn you that we all take a little bit of care when we use the rights that the Rules of Procedure provides for us and when we address each other. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19349	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I'm reporting on the basis of Article 27, and two things regarding article 87 and the question asked by the Secretary of the National Assembly... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19350	National MP, on the basis of article 100, you can only get the word for the injury done just before you asked for the word. The questions you asked the secretary and the member of 87 cannot be explained when giving a word and upon request that there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Please read the members of the Rules of Procedure, it's not complicated. Thank you. The People's MP Lazic Nikola has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19351	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, at first I would like to express my regret that the committee in charge did not consider the draft law on the agenda today and gave its opinion on it. As for the circumstances under which this bill is being discussed, they differ significantly from the situation in which we were in the adoption of the basic Foreign Affairs Act, which was also voted by the Democratic Party of Serbia in December 2007. At that time, foreign policy existed, and in addition to the government-level alignment, it also received its approval in parliament. At that time, serious efforts were made to bring the key issues of the domain of foreign policy into line at the level of the Assembly, which would, in fact, increase the legitimacy of that policy. It would also reflect this internal stability on a more quality foreign policy position, especially before individual internal political issues were significantly broken through international prism. Today, about a year and a half since then, that picture seems completely different. The fact is that there is no single state policy around our foreign policy performance, and this is reflected in the fact that the ruling majority of the new government itself did not find it appropriate to put any motion for a resolution related to our foreign policy priorities on the agenda. Not only has the government not done such a thing, but it has repeatedly refused to consider acts in the area, which opposition parties have submitted. I think it is important to say that there is, in general, serious confusion at the level of the executive, related to the alignment of foreign policy priorities and in general to the distribution of competences related to foreign policy. The experience of the last century teaches us that a combination of weak governments and a dominant president has never brought any good to our country. It seems to me that even within the framework of the government itself, there is a kind of misunderstanding on certain issues. We have all recently witnessed that there have been unclear messages about the possible involvement of our soldiers outside Serbia's borders, in particular, on this military exercise in Georgia. I think that neither those who were involved within the government nor those who were against are wrong because that is the only jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is under Article 140. The Constitution only has the right to decide on the engagement of our soldiers outside the borders of the state. To every responsible politician, state official, and I think to every responsible citizen, it is clear that foreign policy, if it wants to be successful, must not be confrontative or condescending. It is important in this context to mention the consistency and seriousness of our diplomatic performance, i.e. I would rather say a political performance, because, in fact, diplomacy only suffers the consequences of what politics is, in terms of credibility on the international stage. In fact, Serbia as one of the victims of tape ammunition, we all remember that well in 1999, participated very actively during 2008 in the preparation for the signing of so-called. The Oslo Agreement, which aimed to result in a ban on production, use, storage and sale of tape ammunition. As I said, we as a state played a very active role in the whole process. The state even hired people who became persons with disabilities as victims of tape ammunition to participate in certain conferences. Finally, Serbia organised a conference with the topic in Belgrade to make the impression of our participation stronger, to actually contribute to the process. Unfortunately, at the end of the process, the agreement was signed over a hundred states, however, Serbia was not among them. The question is, why is that? It has double implications, both on the internal political agenda and on the foreign policy plan. As far as the internal political plan is concerned, I don't think it's correct for our citizens, especially when it comes to the fact that there is an estimated two and a half thousand more unexploded cluster bombs on the territory of which more than 80,000 inhabitants are potentially at risk from this kind of ammunition. If we continue to clean the ground at this pace, I think we would need a decade to do so, and in case Serbia signed the agreement we would be able to get some help to speed up the process significantly and to resolve this issue. As for our foreign policy credibility, the question is, what kind of message do you send if you actively promote one process, participate in it, and then, finally, without any explanation, withdraw and withdraw from the process? When it comes to the government's declared foreign policy priorities, which are the issue of preserving Kosovo and Metohija within the framework of Serbia's composition, the issue of European integration and regional co-operation, it is important to note that these objectives are not in themselves controversial. However, the implementation of these objectives is controversial, i.e. it is very discriminatory. The result of the government's work is that on the ground almost entirely, in Kosovo and Metohija, UNMIK's mission to remind it is to implement the essential autonomy of Kosovo within Serbia. On the other hand, the government has accepted the Eulex mission, which the Serbian government claims is statusally neutral. Whether she's statusally neutral or implementing Ahtisaari's plan, that's what she can be lenient about. However, the fact is that between the Institute of Essential Autonomy and status neutrality there is a huge difference called crossing the red line, i.e. endangering Serbia's territorial integrity. On the other hand, I think it is necessary that we as a state play a proactive role in international organisations, especially those dealing with human rights issues, such as the Council of Europe and the OSCE, in order to update the issue of the endangered rights of the remaining Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Several months of power outages actually put pressure on the remaining Serbian animal in Kosovo and Metohija, and it is being brought to the brink of humanitarian disaster. It must react much more actively and provide all logistical support to the investigation into the trafficking of missing and kidnapped Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. I have to make a point that the state missed an opportunity to react when Mrs. Helena Ranta, a Finnish pathologist, came out with a statement that she was in formulating a report on the so-called so-called. The massacre in Račka, which served to bomb the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 1999, was pressing on her to essentially alter the elements of the report. I think the state had to react more actively and take advantage of that moment. I don't think it's a good thing that some state officials are comparing the issue of Kosovo's admission to the IMF and saying it's only important that Kosovo is not admitted to the UN. Of course, it can't be said that there is no particular activity of diplomacy in that sense, but the question is, what concept of energy is invested in? Only the question of seeking an advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice, on which we have so many times already lagged, brings with it greater risks per country, and on the other hand it can potentially be optional for countries that have recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence, of course, depending on how the decision is formulated. In the end, I think the government's relationship with the Kosovo and Metohija issue best illustrates the recent statement by the secretary of state at the Ministry of Kosovo and Mr Oliver Ivanovic's Metohija, who said not too much about the Kosovo issue when visiting US Vice President Biden. As far as regional co-operation is concerned, it is of course necessary to improve it, but on the principles of reciprocity, i.e. non-interference in internal affairs, especially on the basis of respect for international law. There are very useful regional initiatives, and bilateral dialogue needs to be developed, not ignoring issues of essential importance for Serbia. There can be no question of developing good neighbourly relations if key open issues are ignored. You can't put stuff under the rug to go forward. The existence of the problem, of course, is nothing unexpected or unusual, but the key question is how these open issues and problems are solved. Of course, in the context of regional co-operation, I think it is important to give priority to the development of special and parallel ties with Republika Srpska, within the framework of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. under the Dayton Agreement, and to make maximum use of all the capacities that this agreement provides in terms of the development of special and parallel ties. This co-operation should be comprehensive in both political and cultural, both economically and on an educational basis, etc. I would like to ask a question for the government, in the context of the appointment of new ambassadors to Montenegro and Macedonia in Serbia. What, meanwhile, since the exorcism of these ambassadors, has changed to the quality of Serbia's relations with the two countries so that the ambassadors of these countries are now acceptable? When these ambassadors were expelled, the Democratic Party of Serbia was against emotional and irrational moves and we felt that there were far more effective and effective solutions that could lead to the desired results, in terms of the disputes that exist. Regarding the issue of European integration, it seems to me that it is clear to all of us that the DSS's position was correct, in terms of opening up a kind of dialogue and exploiting the time ahead to open an honest dialogue with the EU member states on the problem that has arisen by recognising a number of EU countries' independence of Kosovo and Metohija. As we can see, there was no place for haste, as no temporary trade agreement remains applicable, the SAA is not applied, except that the Serbian government is unilaterally implementing the agreement, which additionally burdens the budget and even the pockets of Serbian citizens. If we wanted to see what model is best, in terms of protecting our state interests in the European integration process, we could look at how some countries in our neighbourhood do it. Of course, the necessary precondition, which is not met with us, is that there is a kind of consensus about foreign policy goals. It is sad to see that today, on behalf of European integration, various things are justified, such as certain suspicious actions in parliament. If you ask any politician from any EU country, he will tell you that European values are not suspicious ways of voting in parliaments. As far as military neutrality is concerned, I think it is a very important position, established by the Serbian parliament, and in every act on the international stage, our state authorities must abide by it. When it comes to economic diplomacy, it can be said that it resulted mainly in a pre-election campaign and mainly in the issue of "Fiita". Unfortunately, the signing of the agreement has not far gone and the citizens, unfortunately, do not live better. When it comes to a gas-naphtha agreement with Russia, I do not think it is good that before the ratification of this agreement they send confusion messages from individual members of the ruling coalition, whether or not this agreement will be ratified, but, fortunately, with the votes of the opposition, of course the DSS MPs, this agreement has been ratified and our credibility has been preserved in the eyes of our partners. During the adoption of the existing Foreign Affairs Act in 2007, the Democratic Party of Serbia expressed regret that it is not a more detailed and qualitatively defined internal organisation of the foreign ministry. Unfortunately, this proved to be a lack of current practice. As for the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Foreign Affairs Act, I will refer to several members, with the desire to show the citizens a little clearer what this law is about. Article 1 draws closer to the issue of security at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In this ministry, there is a Security and Analytical Affairs Service, which deals with data collection. It is not necessary to question the justification of the existence of these two units, according to the systematisation, the foreign ministry, or the need for closer definition of the tasks it performs. The Security Service, which treats the issue of guards, janitors and communication protection, is being treated by Article 1 of the Law. However, I think it may be a problem to point out that both services at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are the same person and that the person is, according to the writings of certain media, certain NGOs. The question then arises whether one man should have such power, a fact that, according to the law on services, there are two services in the Republic of Serbia – BIA and VBA, for which there are less or more certain mechanisms for parliamentary control, while for the affairs of the Foreign Ministry there is no control system, since when a minister appears before the Foreign Affairs Committee cannot expect to report on the work of the Service for Analytical Affairs. Article 3 of the proposed law speaks of the possibility for the foreign minister to engage for a period of four years, so to accept temporary work, persons who need to take the highest and most professional places in our diplomacy, which in certain cases can be used to contribute to improving diplomatic activities. Of course, there are examples that show that some solutions have been and are bad, where ambassadors do not meet even the basic criteria, let alone respond to complex tasks that are being put before them. The Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed an amendment in this regard, and I urge you to accept it, which requires those people who are engaged to meet the same standards as those from the ministry, both in a professional sense (so they pass a diplomatic and consular exam and in the language) and in psychophysical terms. Of course, with such a amended text, without this corrective clause, there is the possibility that another minister (I have no doubt that you will not do so) might abuse it and bring in one of his relatives, a friend whose only qualification is that he was educated abroad or maybe he knows a foreign language. I don't think that's enough and this is going to achieve the goal of a more uniform diplomatic representation. A key member of this law, which has also led him to congregation procedure, is a Article 4. It is abolishing and prolonging with great delay, the law stipulates that obligation for the ministry since 1 January, and now half of May, it is the right of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are working in diplomatic and consular representations around the world to have regular health insurance, which they have not had so far. In a law passed in the previous meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted by the DSS, the issue, which has been rightfully tortured for years by our citizens representing the country abroad, was best resolved. Here, in light of the changes and additions submitted by the Government, it says that it is necessary to change the date from 1 January 2009 to 2010, in order to avoid the adverse consequences of the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What are the adverse consequences of the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Is it possible that they might be sued by their legal employees? The government that cares for its employees must take care of it. In this regard, we have submitted an amendment to change the date on July 1st, 2009, during the next budget rebalance, which we are sure will soon be. As I said at first, I object that the bill did not go through the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which is the competent parent committee. On the other hand, the Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted several amendments that can improve the law. But what I want to say in the end is that to improve the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia is not enough amendments to the law, but a change of government itself is necessary, that is, new elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19352	The word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19353	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, we have nothing against the way you are currently going to parliament, because it actually confirms everything that is our basic criticism, not you personally, but the character of the foreign policy that you have established in the framework of your ruling coalition and the party that has proposed you to the function you are currently in. There are a whole series of problems that are currently antagonising the relationship between the LDP, on the one hand and your ministry, on the other hand. That's why we're not too happy. We don't see any reason that at this point would be significant enough for us to go over the gaps that are obvious. We think that the basic problem is your intention and ambition to lead foreign policy in a way that is unacceptable for 2009 and for a democratic society. Avoiding dialogue, getting acquainted with plans, defining priorities, campaign appearances is something that cannot possibly be good for our society, and thus is not good for those of us who represent the interests of citizens here, who are very important in the definition of our country's position in the world and completely different communication with the world. Foreign policy has become an instrument that confrontations Serbia with the international community, with the region and, finally, at the last stage, is confrontational between our society within the borders of the country in which we live. Two weeks ago, we discussed a law confirming an agreement between Russia and Serbia. Despite the great formation of the ruling coalition to explain to us that your absence is normal, although your presence and obligation to explain this agreement are prescribed, we were denied the debate on a very important issue which, in our opinion, threatens the country's normal development. This energy subordination, colonial subordination, everything that characterizes Serbia's foreign policy was not the aim of parliament, nor did we ever discuss it here. Kosovo's policy without parliamentary support and insisting on military neutrality, without any argument, going back to the 1980s through our closeness with non-classified, no discussion or agreement, without explaining the objectives of partnership with countries suspected of openly supporting terrorism, without any consent, support, explanations why it is done, is a whole series of gaps that, logically, end with one such bad proposal to amend and supplement the law. We have nothing against this return fact, although you have not explained it, because we believe that the victims of the ministry's incompetence must not be people working for this country within the foreign ministry, because it is exclusively sloppy cause for changes and additions to the law that practically move deadlines in which people representing this country should be allowed to work free of pressures that are exposed to Serbia's inability to provide them with what belongs to every diplomatic representative of any other country in the world. The other two efforts are more controversial for us than because they are not followed by any arguments. First, the refusal by the foreign ministry to pass through the committee in the Assembly, and then through the introductory word of the minister, explain to MPs and MPs whose security affairs the foreign ministry is dealing with, and on what grounds. Are these the security jobs that the Foreign Ministry used to be known for, and which, I must remind you, were done in accordance with the law? At this point in our legal order, no active law can be found, a positive legal regulation which would be the basis for establishing a service of security within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If this is a matter of jobs that are brought down to the porter service, then we do not see the reason why we are talking about it at this point, because it is indeed a question that can be fully regulated and based on the existing law, since in 2007, you have very clearly identified the possibility of regulating and resolving an entire series of open issues through sublaws and regulations that you had the right and freedom to bring. So, if this is an attempt to get past the public and without any basis in the law within the foreign ministry, you would be obliged to answer why you are doing so, with what motives and what consequences there will be of seeking to establish such an institution in the framework of the foreign ministry. The second question is the employment of personnel in the foreign ministry, that is, your discretionary right to pass the law and the usual procedures for all other ministries, you employ up to 5% of people in the foreign ministry for a period of four years. We consider that by expanding the concept of a party state, because it is clear that you are hiring personnel during a period that has been identified as a period of your full term. That's bad, not because we think the apriors will all be bad, but because in such a way we won't be able to professionalise our foreign ministry, so the minister will go with all those hired by the minister, because it is understood that the new minister will bring, calling for your rights, some of his staff. We're not gonna get anywhere with that kind of foreign policy. I think that foreign policy has a lot of work to do and, unfortunately, we have not yet been able to explain our interests, nor to get support for the democratic mechanisms that these interests need to be achieved. Further monopoly of foreign policy is unacceptable. This is actually the only essence of the law that you go out with without a sense of need to explain to us why you're doing it. It's more than weird for a man who likes to talk as much as you do, at every moment and in every place. It is as strange as if Vice-President Gordana Komic refused to explain to us some law because he believes there is no need for such a thing, and explains to us the injuries of the Rules of Procedure longer than we say. There's no program where you don't show up. There's no point on the planet you didn't show up on, from Syria to Argentina. I don't see what the problem was for you to give us a normal discussion and discussion by first explaining changes and additions to the law and helping us not to wander through your hidden intentions. So, do you think these amendments and additions to the law form some kind of security service within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? If that's what you mean, I remind you that this is not regulated by existing security laws. If that's not your intention, then tell me what your intention is, so we don't have to remain so big of a doubt between us. This is not a debate where we should talk about the effects of our foreign policy, but this is a debate where we can talk about the basics on which foreign policy is built. If the basics are wrong, and they're party, they're not democratic, they're not transparent, they're not public, and politics can't be different. If foreign policy is not the foreign policy that we have discussed and agreed on, if the way it is implemented is not as common for the entire normal democratic world, then neither can the results of that policy be different from what they are now, and they are devastating. Serbia has extended the borders of its conflicts. When he's trying somehow to consolidate and compensate for the damage he's produced, then it's usually done during your visit to another country. Has the rule of our foreign policy become what we have been facing in the past few months, a rule that shows that representatives of countries with whom we have misunderstandings in Serbia come when you are not in it? If that's the rule, it's bad. If that's not the rule, then it's a strange coincidence and a little bit of a reasonable person can believe it. You were obliged, Mr. Jeremic, to allow us a normal debate by coming out with clear views, to offer an explanation for very strange initiatives, among other things to take responsibility for your own unhappiness and the sloppyness of your ministry. Only this can be explained by the fact that you are re-routing the deadlines from 1 January 2009 to 1 January 2010, to introduce a return fact of the law only because you were unable to re-route the deadlines of all 2008 and in part 2007 in which this new law was in force to adopt provisions that would allow normal functioning of all employees in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, especially those in diplomatic and consular representations. As far as the security service itself, or your discretionary right to hire people, we object because that's how you build the foreign ministry. Either not even a party, but absolutely personal, or what arises from interests that do not have much to do with the party that has run for office, since there is no support for your policy that would be recognizable in the performances and willingness of MPs and MPs of the Democratic Party to support you in this business. The way you've used your discretional right so far is more than bad. That's why our foreign policy is like that. Staff policy comes, above all, from your personal assessments that are being built on criteria that are not political, unless the voice of the singer in the restaurant is a political criterion that is highly respected when an ambassador is being sent to the United States, if intricacy and absence of any results in the previous period, i.e. in the work in foreign policy is not a criterion for candidateing and advancement in the foreign ministry. What I think is important at this point for our society is the fact that your ministry describes as a ministry that is far from the role it should have, and it describes you as a minister as a person who doesn't even know it, and if it is, a team up there, because it refuses to change. I think it is clear that our foreign policy must change, because it is not the purpose of Serbia's foreign policy fighting with the world, but of dialogue and finding those solutions that will allow Serbia to affirm interests in new positions, which cannot be interests identified by your party agenda or your own. Therefore, a great reminder of what you've done so far, and especially for what you're proposing right now, a reminder that means, among other things, denying support for one such idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19354	The word has been issued by MP Mladen Grujic, authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group. After him, MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Prosperity Group, Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19355	Madam Chairman, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, I would ask you to withdraw this amendment to the law for three reasons: firstly, because it is illegal; secondly, because it is bad for the state and third, because it is bad for you personally. Let me make that argument. First, illegal. Your proposal is directly in collegiate with the Civil Service Act. Now you can interpret, or the chairman of the Legislative Committee, that you found a hole in the law and that it can be interpreted one way or another, but your proposal simply disagrees with the spirit of the Civil Service Act. What you're proposing is like some kind of Lex specialist compared to the Civil Service Act. So much for the illegality of your proposal. Bad for the country. Diplomacy's a trade. There are rules in every trade, which is that during a career, a man can be an apprentice, a calph, and a craftsman. What you're looking for is an amendment to the century-old rule. This is like the Minister of Health coming here tomorrow morning to ask us to give him the opportunity to, say, place up to 5% of the medical staff in the O.R., because they're talented or we need them, so they don't waste time on specialization. Mr. Minister, you've done a lot of work over the past two years to fix the image of Serbia and Serbian diplomacy. I respect that. However, someone will say that it was not difficult for you, because Serbian diplomacy has been at the lowest level in history since the time of Milos Obrenovic, so it was not difficult to improve it. Anyway, I appreciate every shift. What you're proposing is now the previous minister has been doing without the legal basis you're looking for. Don't get into such mistakes. I don't want to talk about the work of the former minister; either, it didn't happen again. I am fully aware that in all countries in the world there are a number of ambassadors who are politically placed in those places, but I have not heard of political appointments of consuls, security advisers or those who encrypt messages (I don't know what his profession is), or any other professional place, because these places require some previous education and experience that is not achieved at school, on the street or in the family, which you are proposing. This proposal of yours is bad for you personally. Your life will be much harder with this change of law. Mr. Jovanovic, who spoke before me, doubts that you will use this member to appoint security specialists. I'll calm you down, Mr. Jovanovic, don't worry, they're not setting up security advisers, they're going to meet up with swastikas, brother-in-laws, neighbors and party friends. Mr. Minister, make life easier for yourself, because believe me, do you know how many ambitious and wanted political comrades, friends, neighbors, family members will appear to you, who will appeal to this member of the law that you are now passing and which allows you to fully please them? Why are you doing this to yourself? What do you need? Without this member, your life is easier. When you receive requests and requests for non-bulful appointments, please refer to the Law on Civil Servants and instruct them to seek immediately an ambassadorial post and refer them to President Tadic for this, and then let him fulfill or fail to meet his wishes. I tried to find a reason why you asked for this amendment to the law and I didn't find it, and you didn't want to explain it. I'd like to ask you to try, and I'd like to hear that, because I think you're going to have a hard time doing that. I ask you to withdraw this law, because you will see, this member will bring you such stains in the future in a career that you need nothing and you will not be guilty of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19356	The word has a People's MP... Cedomir Jovanovic wants a replica of the presentation of MP Mladen Grujic. Here you go. I'm just asking you to register, just once.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19357	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Since I was mentioned by an NS MP, I would like to answer. I am aware of this principle of nepotism and party careerism, which is thus expressed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. True, he did not come to terms only in the current minister's term of office, it became an heirloom and usually the right of every foreign minister, who, through changes and additions to this law, practically gets one legal basis for the first time. It is true that this member of the law is against the law, contrary to the Law on civil servants, and therefore we will seek the protection of legality. What I wanted to say, and what's wrong, is that it's actually taking over security and security services from the Foreign Ministry beyond any law. So, the Law on the Fundamentals of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia very clearly defines what security services are in Serbia, the jurisdiction of these security services and the rights that are limited in the area of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs through amendments and additions to the Foreign Affairs Act. As a result, it is a completely illegal initiative and the ambition of the Foreign Ministry to deal with security issues in the framework of the Foreign Ministry, in addition to the Law on Fundamentals of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia. It was possible in the past, but it was then arranged according to the law. Therefore, of the three initiatives launched by amendments and additions to the Law, one initiative is illegal, as it was the ministry's duty to do a job now announcing that it would do so by 1 January 2010, which is to protect the rights of our representatives in diplomatic and consular representations, i.e. the right to health insurance. It wasn't done, the law was broken. The second violation of the law is a violation stemming from the foreign minister's ambition to introduce practically, in addition to his mandate, his mandate and his staff for four years, which gives us the party ministry and which is an accounting with the professional staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The third violation of the law is this totally illegal and unfounded introduction of security services to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which shows the ambition of the minister who has his foundation in the past, not the time we are in today. If once the Foreign Ministry had a powerful service of security, and in the meantime this security service has been transformed, that concept has been abandoned because such a thing has been established by the Law on the Foundations of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia, then we want to get an answer to the question – how will this security service function within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when we cannot hear one word from the Minister here in Parliament in the interpretation of the bill's proposal, when it does not appear in the interpretation of the agreement, when it does not appear when formulating foreign policy for next year, when we know that it is building its policy on principles which do not have many points of touch with parliamentary democracy, in which the minister accounts parliament?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19358	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Prosperity Group, Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19359	I find it outrageous that Mr. Secretary is sitting in the O.R. today who doesn't want to explain the law, so I'm interested in what he's looking for in the O.R. If it's an opportunity to wait to hear what we have to say and prepare adequate answers, then he doesn't deserve to be foreign minister, because if that's how he leads diplomacy and if he has nothing to explain to those he's talking to, then we have to imagine who we chose as foreign minister. It may be a good thing for him personally that he didn't explain it, because he didn't have to lie, but politics doesn't have to be guided so that a man can personally be satisfied, it can be for some other professions, in politics you have to try to make most of the citizens happy with what you're doing, even though you yourself didn't feel too satisfied. So, since I always see the ministers through the President of the Republic, as one of the speakers through which the President of the Republic says what I cannot, which he is not prepared for or does not allow his relationship with diplomacy, then, Mr. Jeremic, and when he praises you for doing something good, praise Tadic, and when he praises you for being a good representative of the state of Serbia somewhere, in fact praises Tadic. I can't commend you for promoting diplomacy, as someone who wants to be all right in Serbia would do, so it doesn't analyze too much what he might say. No, you did not improve diplomacy, you and Boris Tadic reduced Serbian diplomacy to shuttle diplomacy. You do not appreciate any of our representatives abroad, only you two travel by plane to give us good news from countries we already know will not recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. You're very often in all these countries, so you can get back from there with a skill that they remain attached to the idea of not admitting independence. Every three months I find out that Slovakia remains attached to the idea, this, it, and it never leaves in some of the major Western European states and you say – I convinced France not to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. For you, there are no diplomats abroad, as if you don't trust them, as if someone had made them for you over the past ten years, as if these party interests have brought so many people from different parties to the ambassadorial functions that you have to do it all on your own. Why are you building a very party foreign ministry, I don't understand, because maybe, not just in this relationship with the majority in the Assembly, there won't be room for your party in power anymore. I could say that what you're predicting for yourself right now could be used by someone who's thinking on the ground floor as your party thinks about diplomacy, so he can dissipate the ones you bring in. But you know very well that everyone who comes to power for you has a little more souls than you and most employees stay in their seats, and that's why we've been pre-named the state administration. So instead of coming here one day and telling us how things are with the independence of Kosovo and Metohija, that things are in front of the court that we're expecting some final solution, or half solution, which I'm even worried might serve you to continue to carry out what you're doing with Eulex, you've come to feel a bill of law, in which the Ministry admits your mistakes. One part of the law refers to covering the mistakes you've made, and another to create conditions for yourself to make new mistakes. What is the challenge of this bill? In the 2009 budget, you did not provide for the means to treat people, and then, see, absurda, on 17 May, we passed the law that something would come into force on 1 January 2009, the Secretariat of the legislation passed, and that we decided today to take action on 1 January and that there were even consequences from 1 January to 17 May, because we decided to take effect on 17 May. With a provision that has already allowed you to receive a job without a face competition with experience in scientific and research work, with significant diplomatic experience, so you wrote professional skills, etc., you now, without any criteria, go to 5% of the employees, directly according to the foreign minister's decision. If we have these diplomatic and consular representations, and you don't write us here how many employees there are, but if there are 500, and I can only guess how many there are, if there are 1,000, you're going to hire 50 yourself. Where? Do you, in the United States, in Brussels, do you in London, will you deploy them according to existing systems, so that some people who retire will be brought to places by you personally? So, the Democratic Party and you want to build your own foreign ministry. The provision of Article 1 by which the Government prescribes something on your proposal, and then the provision of Article 3 resembles that you participated in a tender and bought this Ministry of Foreign Affairs and now, like everyone who has bought something in these ten years of your government, you're looking only to earn it, and you don't care what happens to the company you bought. This isn't a company, this is Serbia. The foreign ministry is Serbia, each embassy is Serbia, Mr. Minister, and you would like to buy Serbia and determine for yourself what will happen in it and how it will happen. I've never known you like this before. This bill of law was a big surprise to me. True, I follow how Boris Tadic pushes you into the fire, God forbids your rating, and in fact you say to the West what Tadic cannot say not to argue. This brings you to an hour when someone from the West will tell Tadic – he can no longer be foreign minister. On the other hand, Boris Tadic, in such a way of working, arguing you with the West, has raised a partial reputation in the country, and has begun to whisper that you are more popular than he is. If I were you, I'd be very worried, because people who get closer to Boris Tadic are going bad, not if they beat him. You were in charge of bringing good news to Tadic, and the people are eager to get some good news. Then you sit on that expensive plane, fly to Syria and go back and say – Syria will not recognise independence, fly to Slovakia – it will not recognise independence, fly to Spain – it will not recognise independence, and we all say – we have the goods, we have Vuk Jeremic as minister, look at how many countries it goes and convince them not to recognise the independence of Kosovo and Metohija. Did you break up the drunks from the Ministry and the embassy? Have you dispersed traitors, which you would now say are traitors... I would ask you, Madam Chairman, to provide me with working conditions. You have people out there who have spoken openly about the independence of Kosovo and Metohija, I don't know what to call them, maybe there's a nicer word. I never trust anyone who says he'll decide anything for himself, that no one can control him and that there's no law to follow. So you're not letting the Assembly control you today, you're not going to talk. I also saw it with your president who will never speak first, but is waiting for everyone to speak, and then he puts a lot of stuff on people's heads and interrupts the session. Now I'm telling you in advance, if you're waiting for it, that you're giving us the final word here, then you shouldn't have gone into the O.R. That final word of yours, we will not attend, because you did not respect our right to hear the opening word from you. We read the papers and discuss them on the basis of them, and you listen to the living word of the messengers and prepare to answer that living word with a living word. No, I would ask you to answer us in writing. We end the discussion here now, you go to the cabinet, sit with your associates, write us an answer and mail it to us. Let that be communication between the foreign minister and the MPs, which you don't appreciate at all. Or your fear of the one who sent you on a mission like this is greater than wanting to respect someone else. If someone sent you here to say - I don't want to talk about the law, it's already begun to tear you down. It can only be Boris Tadic. There's nothing else for you. Cvetkovic doesn't take you down, you're not dangerous for Cvetkovic. If I were a little more hypocrite than I am and I was a little older than I am, I'd say you're a better minister than Tadic is president of the Republic. Let me have another fight with you. But there's no reason between you two for any excessive praise either. I could say you're worse off, that you're less of a bad minister than he is president of the Republic. But you two people see the Democratic Party of Foreign Affairs as leading this country. Your public opinion that the court will decide in our favour and that we rely solely on the court's opinion can cost you a lot if that court does not make the decision that you are already giving us here. Because I am convinced that this decision cannot be entirely on our side, judging from the fact that America did not lobby at all at the General Assembly, but let it go. Even England was restrained, she let it go to court. For me, it is a sign that it is easier to isolate several judges than hundreds of MPs or representatives. And that's why, Mr. Minister, I know that the advice that people don't ask for can look a little bit like a threat, but you should have come here as the Wolf Jeremic that Serbia knows through the media. With your finely adjusted voice, you should convince the MPs that this law is good, and this law is not good in any of its provisions. The most serious sin for you is that the MPs, and thus the public of Serbia, found out that you did not bother to treat our people who represent Serbia abroad. You could have given them one car, this new "full" new one, but you didn't provide funds in the budget for these people to be treated, and you made sure that you traveled to shuttle diplomacy. So your concept of foreign affairs management doesn't fit the concept we're proposing at all. For us, ambassadors will be representatives of the country, not foreign minister, or foreign minister. You career ambassadors don't have any more. You've got education all over the world at DS, and now it's your chance to get them into the Ministry without any competition, without any competition. I can understand it as a party orientation in the party – you raise money nicely in the DS, so you have your diplomats who prepare to be representatives of Serbia one day when you are in power. But that Serbia pays you your cadre, and this is a direct way of how you party when you want to finance from the budget, that's inadmissible, Mr. Minister. Why wouldn't these people have competition? What do you mean, Mr. Minister, that you're the only one who decides about 5% of the staff, that you're the only one in that head who has the criteria and values for hiring people? Doesn't that look a little like a private company? When the Department of Foreign Affairs is a private firm, what's left of the state? That's why we're absolutely against this law. We're going to explain the two amendments that we've given, and we could give you all six, to erase all of this, but I think it's quite enough what we're going to tell you today in the amendment debate. I would like to hear those who would support this law, just tell me which provision of the law they support, which provision was necessary for Serbia and which provision was necessary for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to do its job better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19360	In the electronic system, MPs Cedomir Jovanovic and Dejan Mirovic were reported, and I apologize, MP Dejan Mirovic, the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19361	Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that the amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act that we are considering today aim to increase security in our diplomatic and consular representations, as the changes in terms of point 25 are referred to in Article 5. The law on foreign affairs. However, these changes are likely to have something to do with the announcement that there is a possibility of opening consulates in Montenegro (three) and Croatia (one). More specifically, Croatia is scheduled to be relocated by consulates from Rijeka, which was specifically said by the minister on 28 April 2009. It is likely that the amendment of Article 42, which stipulates that without conducting the competition, the minister can make a solution to admission to a working relationship indefinitely. On the other hand, since 2007 the Law has taxed the qualifications necessary for such a procedure. The amendments to the law extends that criterion. In our opinion, this is not good, because I quote, "The minister can make a solution to the admission of other persons to a working relationship for an indefinite period of up to four years without conducting an internal and public competition in order to carry out appropriate jobs in the diplomatic and consular representation." These are, to say the least, the disputed provisions, under which the minister is given too much authority. Although these amendments to the Law are related to the announced opening of consulates in neighbouring countries where the Serb people live, in this context we are also interested in the following. Why is the opening of a consulate in Montenegro announced in advance and publicly, although your colleague Mr. Rocen did not even want to confirm it? Are those just propaganda statements? Then, by what criteria are the cities in which these consulates will be chosen? For example, according to the last 2003 census in Pljevlje, 70% of Serbs live. However, the city is not scheduled to open a consulate. Also, Mr. Minister, if all this isn't a propaganda action, then the following questions are asked. Why does the foreign ministry, instead of increasing the number of officials and diplomats, not directly assist the Serbian people in neighbouring countries? Or, why is it not insisting on respecting the 1992 Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe, in particular Article 5, which guarantees the conditions for maintaining and developing the culture of members of national minorities, as well as their faiths and languages; also, Article 9 guaranteeing freedom of expression, the right to radio and television programmes, the printed media; Article 11 that regulates the names of cities, street names and topographic labels; Article 12, which guarantees teaching and textbooks in Serbian language; Article 17. which guarantees links between Serbian people in neighbouring countries and the Republic of Serbia? The minister certainly knows that both Montenegro and Croatia are members of the Council of Europe and that it is their duty to respect this convention. Similarly, it can be concluded when we talk about the 1992 European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages, which the SCG ratified in 2005. When all these facts are given the impression that the government and the Foreign Ministry believe that co-operation with the Council of Europe and the EU means only meeting obligations, and that Serbia, as the queen of the most numerous people in the former SFRY, has no right to seek anything for its fellow Americans. It's open to say. It is a harmful way of thinking and is very similar to the position represented by the minister at the 119st ministerial session of the Council of Ministers of Europe in Madrid, when he asked the Council of Europe to take a status neutral stance on the Kosovo and Metohija issue because it is the basis for Resolution 1244, towards the minister. The news has been published in our media and I hope it was the ministers of the lapus, because it is generally known that the Council of Europe has not confessed so-called. Kosovo. It is widely known that our Constitution states that Kosovo and Metohija are part of the Republic of Serbia and, finally, it is known that Resolution 1244 repeatedly states that Kosovo and Metohija are part of the SRJ. That is why the minister should explain his position in Madrid today on 12 May 2009. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Affairs Act amends the provisions of the 2007 Law. Already in the first article of the Amendments and Supplements Act on Foreign Affairs, Article 5 is amended as follows: The 2007 law. We believe, however, that, in line with the 2007 solutions, further attention should be paid to Article 1 of the basic law. In this context, some solutions from this member had to be adapted to the new reality, especially after February 2008 or reality after the so-called so-called “reality”. Kosovo states, more specifically NATO states, in Serbian territory. Why is this first member of the 2007 Law so significant, and why should the legislator pay greater attention to it rather than to other members? First of all, because the member regulates the following areas: foreign affairs, the decision-making process for the opening and closure of diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Serbia abroad, but also for foreign states and international organisations in the Republic of Serbia; then, the availability of assets abroad, rights and obligations of diplomats and other employees in the ministry. It is also, but not less important, that this article emphasises that the issues which are not governed by this law are subject to the general rules of international law, as well as the approved international agreements in this area. As for the first position of this member, it is clear that it depends primarily on the funds received by the Ministry. So, Mr. Minister, I will be completely open, we can now compete in repeating phrases, present our foreign policy strategy and present our programmes and make populist statements or consider the legal point of view whether the process will succeed before the International Court of Justice and in this context give real or false hope to our citizens and at the same time collect political points, first of all here I mean power. Basically, the basic test of the performance and seriousness of a foreign policy or its importance in the general state policy can be reduced to one single, basic question – how much money does one state give for its foreign policy? This issue is particularly important in the case of our country because, unfortunately, in the situation, it has admitted it to me or not to fight for its survival, because there are obviously forces that want to destroy Serbia as a state. This is reality, and the rest are phrases, political and national masochism and running away from problems, pre-election or political marketing. In addition, the legislator himself, in an explanation of the urgency of the procedure, acknowledges that there are, quote, "changed circumstances and needs of the ministry, or diplomacy of Serbia". In this regard and in line with the foreign policy situation, which is very serious, every responsible authority, every minister who has the honour of leading such an important portfolio, which may be with the economic part of the government and the most important resort in the government – because I recall, as a state, we have long denied relying on arguments from the defence sphere, even those preventive characters, in terms of deterrence – therefore, every foreign minister should fight that his ministry has serious resources within the overall budget, but gross domestic product. Analysis shows it's not like that in our country. They clearly show that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not been sufficiently committed to better treatment and higher budget spending. For this reason, Article 1. The law on foreign affairs, so the law that's kind of changing here, can't be applied in practice. It is therefore not possible to justify the urgency of the procedure required in the draft law. In fact, it is completely unreal that members of the Law, e.g. Article 5, they change, and then it represents a change of great importance. It is completely unrealistic to talk about measures that will improve, reportedly, security in the ministry and diplomatic-consular representations, while you receive or give insufficient funding from the budget for such an important ministry, and you are further reducing the budget rebalancing. The following comparative data show that. In 2007, our gross domestic product was estimated to be around 30 billion euros; then, in late December, a republican budget was adopted. At that time, I recall, according to the official course of the NBS, it was worth about 85.9 dinars. So these are the financial frameworks in which both our country and the Foreign Ministry are located. In this respect, the total expenditure foreseen by the budget was adopted in December at 748,00,000 dinars or about 8,700,000 euros, according to a course already cited. So it's a huge number. Whether it's real or not, it's a special question and we'll talk about it when the economic laws come to order. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, in the same budget adopted not so long ago, so a few months ago, about 5,795,000 dinars or around 67,00,000 euros were foreseen for the foreign ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, I point out, that's less than 1% of the budget expenditure. The figure is foreseen for the foreign ministry and is incomparable with the 2007 gross domestic product. We took this year as a year where there was no crisis. In that sense, it is clear that the fact that we came up with the comparison of budget expenditure shows that the minister failed in the year in which independence was declared so-called. Kosovo, either with changing foreign policy circumstances (as is recognised among other things in the reasoning of the law that we are considering today), elections by not one per cent of budget expenditures. On the other hand, we can only assume how much more trouble those who force the creation of a false state of Kosovo would have if our diplomacy had, by lucky chance, 2% or, by some miracle, 3% of the budget expenditure. I don't blame the Minister himself for this poor position of our diplomacy. I think there are people in power who are far more responsible than he is for this position of our diplomacy – the president, the prime minister, probably some foreign ambassadors. However, the minister responsible for this portfolio had to focus his efforts on obtaining funds within the government, not on media performances, which sometimes cannot be formally objected to, but which essentially means nothing if they do not have serious budgetary resources behind them. It is clear that with funds that do not account for 1% of the total budget, no minister could do anything significant to improve our foreign policy position, regardless of their experience or qualifications. The following data show that the state essentially treats such an important area as external affairs badly and unseriously. They also show how unrealistic the secondary urgency of the procedure so dramatically sought in the light of this law is. Otherwise, Mr. Minister, when this data is analyzed, it gets the impression that someone cares, of course I don't think of you personally, that our diplomacy has as little impact or as little interference as possible for those who break up Serbia, its economy and its territorial integrity. For example, out of the total figure provided for by the foreign ministry, about 3,757,000,000 dinars are foreseen for diplomatic-consular representations. So, that particular representation of whose safety is spoken of in the light of this law. That was about 43,000,000 euros per December 2008. Also, 157.000,000 dinars or around 1,700,000 euros are scheduled for the travel costs of our diplomats. On the other hand, in the same period, the Ministry of Economy had budget funds of 44,364,000 dinars or about 516,000,000 euros. So it's a sum that's more than seven times larger than the one held by the ministry in charge of foreign affairs. I repeat, over seven times the amount, or about 12 times the amount that our embassies and consulates finance. So, almost incomparable and incomprehensible, especially if it is known that, essentially, the most important economic portfolio is the Ministry of Finance, not the economy. The following data, also based on the December 2008 budget, show how much the ministry is responsible for such an important area as foreign affairs have been neglected in our country. They essentially show your work and how many arguments from this bill are a distraction from the main topic. For example, the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning received around 5,780,000,000 dinars per budget adopted a few months ago. That's about 67,000,000 euros. So, for the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, the same sum as for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is envisaged. Almost incredible and incomprehensible, given the new circumstances mentioned in the reasoning of the law! Of course, we do not underestimate the importance of this ministry, but we do believe that the importance of foreign affairs is greater, especially in a situation that the promoter acknowledges requires the urgency of the procedure. A similar situation has repeated, and during the current budget rebalancing -- the foreign affairs minister again did not vote for higher budget contributions, or his superiors again had no hearing about strengthening the foreign affairs of the foreign affairs ministry. In this context, while the funds provided for by the Foreign Ministry were reduced, we again had to listen to media tyranny about the importance of our diplomacy, the fight for Kosovo and Metohija, which will be conducted under international law and international policy and phrases – Kosovo as the only topic that creates dissension between Serbia and the well-intentioned United States. We had to conclude again, when we analyzed the funds allocated to the Foreign Ministry, that there was no serious state policy behind these phrases. In this regard, we also consider the reasoning set out in this bill. Of course, as a result of this inconclusive process of recognising the phantom state of Kosovo continues, and the culmination of that indifference or the greatest failure in the past period, which is trying to media down, is certainly already a certain membership of so-called. Kosovo at the IMF. At the same time, as Mr Boris Begovic put it, we will continue to pay the debt so-called. Kosovo, because regulation of the debt now requires agreement between three and not two sides, at the time the International Monetary Fund told that interest on an annual basis on a loan recently approved will be changed every seven days. In this context, I quote a statement by Mr Boris Begovic, who otherwise participated in negotiations on Kosovo's status. This has been a statement since 7 May 2005: "Serbia will continue to repay Kosovo's debt, because in order for the opposite to happen, there must be agreement between all three sides, namely our country, Kosovo and the International Monetary Fund. "More than clear, Mr. Minister. On the other hand, as a state, we suffer this scandalous behaviour by the IMF as if there was no other financial source in the world, although everyone knows that the Russian banking sector is in a much better shape than the one in the West. For example, according to a survey by the Centre for Economic Research of the Moscow Financial and Industrial Academy, none of the hundreds of Russia's largest banks have a level of losses that exceed the risk of 17%. However, Serbia is taking loans from the IMF, and it is further away from the Western banks, which are in a much worse situation than the Russians. At the same time, Kosovo becomes a member of the International Monetary Fund, and Serbia pays its debt! Almost incredible foreign and economic policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the amounts allocated to the foreign ministry under the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009 have been analysed in value of the euro of 94.7 dinar. About that, and in line with the reasons set out in the bill... (President: 20 minutes. Can I continue? Yeah. ) In the next case, we will show how unrealistic the phrases in the reasoning of the law, the phrases on how to carry out security jobs in our offices, and to improve our diplomacy. The budget's rebalancing envisions an allocation for the foreign ministry of around 5,053,000,000 dinars. That is about 53,000,000 euros, so about 14,000,000 euros less than was planned for a budget adopted several months ago in December 2008. This, Mr. Minister, is a scandalous fact. It completely destroys all those unreal phrases from the reasoning of the law. We from the Serbian Radical Party understand that an economic crisis has taken place, we understand that it should be saved, but to subtract more than 20% of the funds from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the time of the bitter diplomatic battle of 15% of our territory brings your employees into a difficult social situation and into a position that will directly affect the work of our diplomacy, on security matters that you speak of and on so-called. the promotion of our diplomacy, and all this at the moment when those who want to destroy Serbia lobby around the world, from Saudi Arabia to Macedonia, for the recognition of so-called. the countries of Kosovo. This is, to say the least, an incredible insecureness, negligence and disrespect of state institutions and officials who have been working for this country for decades. That is why we from the Serbian Radical Party cannot understand that the foreign affairs minister is silent about this fact. We do not understand why he allowed the already scarce funds for his ministry to be reduced in such a harsh and drastic way. So we're wondering if the minister has already made peace with the fact that any further failure of our diplomacy will be placed on him personally? Is he getting ready for another duty? Or why did he agree to such an ungrateful role? Why didn't he go public, even for the sake of employees of professionals in his ministry and for the protection of their integrity, and bring out facts about such a brutal reduction of funds? I repeat, the crisis can't be an excuse for this drastic asset reduction. They may not have been able to be increased, but at least they had to stay at that level since the state is not a non-serious institution, the state is able to provide sufficient resources for the functioning of the foreign affairs minister and ministry. It was enough to show a little state wisdom or courage, and today we wouldn't have to discuss such a shameful fact, at a time when 58 states recognized an independent so-called. Kosovo and when it was admitted to the IMF. For example, Mr. Minister, the state could raise funds for the normal functioning of our diplomacy by calling off the unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU, which in our budget produces a loss of 260m euros. The funds could be found within the ministry's normal functioning, as they are more than four times larger than those received by the foreign ministry. Also, Mr. Minister, the state could protect professionals at the foreign ministry by further taxing trade monopolies, such as Delta, which last year had an income of 2,400,000 euros. According to public recognition by the owner of Delta himself, the company paid taxes to the state amounting to less than 10% of these revenues. In order to protect the functioning of our diplomacy in these changed circumstances (whose existence and you recognise in the light of the bill), the state could further tax the Western banks that in our country, frankly, are earning interest on the largest interest in the region, possibly in Europe, especially the Raiffeisen Bank, which openly recognises independent Kosovo in its brochures. Unfortunately, the state summit has neither the courage nor the ability to deal with these issues, but it reduces giving for such an important area as external affairs. Also, when we analyse the phrases of the bill, it should be borne in mind that the total expenditure, according to the rebalancing, is about 7,600,000 euros. Therefore, the costs of the Foreign Ministry are not even 1% of the total budget expenditure foreseen by the rebalance. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, the expenditure provided for by the Ministry of Economy is again several times higher than those provided for by your Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That's why it's particularly incomprehensible to your silence, if it's known that some of your other colleagues have stepped into the protection of professionals working in their restaurants. They have publicly warned that their work on the ground will be compromised due to lack of funds. The minister in this context certainly knows how important the work of our professional diplomats abroad is. He certainly knows how important it is that these people representing our country feel secure and have a secure social position, not only because of their daily work, such as regulating visas, providing services to our citizens who live and work abroad, or who are on an official or tourist trip to a particular country, not only because of contact with competent ministries in countries where they work, but also because of so-called. informal diplomacy that often brings better results than the one that goes through the usual diplomatic channels. If, in the light of the law, it is stated that one of the reasons for the adoption of this law, I quote, "improvement of the diplomatic staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs", it should be noted that in practice, this chamber is perfected and improved, above all, through foreign service, foreign language training, and in particular through the acquisition of experience and personal connections that will benefit Serbia. I'll list a few examples that show how devastating it is to cut funds for the Ministry in such a serious situation and how unrealistic your phrases are in the reasoning of the law. For example, when it comes to co-operation with some European countries, due to the lack of funds our diplomat will not be able to organise conferences and scientific gatherings dedicated to the Yugoslav crisis, the aggression of the NATO Pact, the illegal declaration of independence, etc. The countries of Kosovo, building the "South Stream" through Serbia, as well as gatherings dedicated to historical, diplomatic, and economic ties. The minister certainly knows that these are not gatherings that serve only for meeting and optional talks. These are gatherings where our diplomats establish important personal contacts with people who have great reputation in the country where they serve. For example, if our embassy in Rome organises an event dedicated to passing "South Stream" through Serbia, representatives of Italian companies participating in this project, such as "Ani", which agreed in Sochi on 16 May 2009 to participate in the sale of gas through transit countries, including Serbia. What revenue "Ani" account best shows that the permeable power of "South of it" is, according to this deal a few days ago, increased from 31 to 64 billion cubic metres. Or, if our embassy organizes a gathering in Rome dedicated to the anniversary of the bombing, there will be a large number of Italian politicians who have been against the bombing of the NATO Pact or who have at least taken a neutral stand for these events, for example because of the need not to sharpen relations with Russia. So our diplomats could talk to, for example, the former president of the Italian Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Policy, Đakom Nignone, who, on 26 March 1999, said in connection with the start of NATO aggression that the strengthening of relations in the east-west relations is actually preventing the establishment of an autonomous European policy. The diplomats could speak to the foreign policy commentator of Mr Venturini's "Korije del sera" list, who was fond of Serbia during the bombing, or with Mr Skalfari Eugeni, who founded the list "Republic", which did not succumb to NATO's Hague hysteria from that time. Or, Mr. Minister, that by any chance our diplomacy has enough resources and that you've fought for it, the said embassy in Rome can invite also famous Senator Giulian Andreotti, a man who has been President of the Italian government several times and who is believed to have had a decisive influence on Italian politics over the past few decades. He also knows the Balkan crisis up to the smallest detail and, more importantly, Andreoti made several statements about the bombing in 1999 regarding the UN Charter and the NATO Pact Statute. Also, if by any chance the minister fought for a more serious budget, gatherings organised by our embassy in Italy could also be called by leaders of union alliances in Italy that opposed NATO bombings, such as Mr. Koferati D'Antoni and others, or respected professors of international law, such as Mr. Aldo Bernandi, who once advocated respect for international law. If by any chance the ministry had a serious budget, it would be likely that Senator Castelli of the League for the North would be invited as well as former mayor of Milan, Mr Formentini, or 98 Italian MPs who opposed Serbia's bombing in 1999, even though they were then part of the ruling coalition. Of course, Mr. Minister, if you had made an effort then, by any chance, to secure a larger budget, even greater effects would have been achieved in the Russian Federation, where friendship with Serbia is so strong that there is not a single parliamentary party, a serious politician, a former or current scientist or intellectual, who is not pro-Serbian. Besides, you know it yourself, because you know how you were welcomed at the international diplomatic academy in Moscow in November 2007. Surely you know how useful it would be to establish links with young diplomats who, over 10-15 years, will determine the basic course of the Russian Federation's foreign policy, forces that only in Serbia are underestimating neotytoists in power, although even Henry Kissinger wrote in his "Diplomacy" a decade ago that I quote, "Russia will always represent an important factor in the world". Of course, all these contacts are unreal when it comes to the Ministry getting minimum funds, which are reduced by budget rebalance, I repeat, by an additional 20%. That's why the phrases of the law on the promotion of diplomatic personnel, the urgency of proceedings and so on, as well as the bill of law that we are considering today, should be seen as the predisposition of former US Foreign Minister Dales, whom his former colleagues also write about overestimated the impact of propaganda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19362	There are no more registered representatives, or president of parliamentary groups. Does the minister want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19363	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to thank you for all the suggestions and constructive criticism. I'd like to do it in short lines, if I may, to give you a few points of this law that I've seen have brought the most controversy. I'll take a look at this at health insurance first. Unfortunately, this is one situation we could not deal with, with the new budget, and that is one technical reason why this application, i.e. the payment and provision of health insurance, is left for a year from now. I think that the budget of the Republic of Serbia was formed in these difficult circumstances; believe me, it would have been much easier if we had been in a situation to do it in a different way, but the thing is the way it is and we have to continue, as much as we do the budget to stretch out and try to make none of those things that remain the foreign policy priorities of this government fall into another plan. As far as personnel matters are concerned, I would like to say that we are the only ministry in the Serbian government that has reduced the number of employees since the formation of the government, and we have reduced this by 200 people, mostly given that we want to have exclusive professionals. So far, I think we have also led a responsible staff policy at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as a priority for further professionalisation and consolidation and strengthening of the professionalisation of diplomatic services. As for discretionary rights and this 5%, I can say that there is no foreign ministry in the world, nor is there a foreign minister without that right. Somewhere in foreign affairs law, somewhere in the interior rules of the ministry. We've studied this thing many times before we put it before you, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, and there's not a single foreign minister who doesn't have that discretionary right, because foreign affairs are one very specific branch of state administration. Relations with foreign countries are sometimes extremely complex and require certain skills and certain skills that cannot be easily found within the state administration. By the way, I received another remark, that we were making some lex specialization because of state officials working at the Foreign Ministry, and the question why they would differ, which is why their titles would differ from that of other civil servants. I have to say again, there's a specificity of diplomacy in the middle. You can't have the embassy of the High Representative, you must have the first secretary. It's just one thing that goes into diplomacy. There are some ranks in diplomacy that are the same everywhere, in all the diplomacys of the world. Our Law on civil servants did not predict that someone was called otherwise than what the Law says (that's the 2005 law), completely forgetting the fact that in diplomacy there are some classes that are called everywhere. In order not to have a higher reference and to have the first secretary, as all other countries have the first secretary or messenger of the job or the minister of counsel, that is why it was necessary to amend this law. As far as security is concerned, we don't have security services. Security services are defined by the Security Service Act. As far as the SID is concerned, he no longer exists, just because of these security services, he is now an analytical service and defined here. When we talk about the services, I should underline that it's not there. We have an analytical service. As far as these security matters are concerned, they only concern the protection of the embassy abroad. It is simply that our law did not foresee another specificity of abroad, that you must have the security of the building on the territory of Serbia, because the territory of Serbia is this building of our embassy or residence and cannot be protected by someone inside, it cannot be protected by a foreign service, because it would not be under our law. You must have some kind of security, physical security within the embassy. Therefore, these tasks of this law apply only to the physical protection of the facility and to the physical protection of the connection system within the facility. I think there has been a lot more here about foreign policy itself, that is, foreign policy directions, than concrete legal solutions, i.e. concrete objections related to this legal solution. I can only say that foreign policy priorities do not change, that they remain drawn where they are, that there are three: one is defending the constitutional order by diplomatic means, the other is European integration, the third is improving relations in the region. I have received questions about what the foreign policy objective is. The goal of foreign policy is what was drawn at the very beginning of this government. The foreign policy of the government is a policy of continuity compared to previous governments and it will not change while the government is. As far as Kosovo is concerned, there have been a lot of issues related to Kosovo. It's one of the three foreign policy priorities of this government. I can say that it's not easy to use diplomatic means in defending the constitutional order when you have some extremely influential states in the world for rivals in that fight. It has to be everywhere, it has to be in every place. There's been some criticism about the travels. I don't think they're right MPs who say such trips aren't necessary. Pressures on countries around the world to recognise Kosovo are drastic and dramatic and happen every day, at the highest level. With all due respect to our diplomatic staff, our diplomatic staff, even the ambassador, has no access to the foreign minister or to any level at which political decisions are made in the vast majority of the world's states. The ambassadors are not seen by ministers, but these ministers are receiving pressures to recognise Kosovo. In order for that not to happen, those people need to talk to you, to invite you to meetings where you decide to do so. Only a minister or president can do that. Therefore, great energy is needed and there is a need for all of us to be present, if we are to fight diplomatic means to preserve sovereignty and territorial integrity. This government will not give up and will not reduce the intensity of our diplomatic efforts to defend the country's sovereignty and territorial integrity, as will not reduce the intensity of our diplomatic efforts and other foreign policy priorities, in the way we defined them. Citizens will have the opportunity to plead in the next election. I'm sorry I didn't bring this stuff up at first, maybe it would have been better if I'd done something like that at first, but I really thought this was technical change and it didn't require political discussion. The comments I received from the MPs, the political aspect of these issues, I agree, there is, and it is good that these questions have been asked to me. I hope I got at least one of them to answer. Anyway, thank you for your remarks and thank you for your advice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19364	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a written statement, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: The Parliamentary Group of Minorities, the LDP Parliamentary Group, the DSS Group of MPs, the SRS Group, and that would be the list of parliamentary groups. I give my word to the first registered speaker. The word is from the People's MP Esad Djudjevic. Please register in the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19365	Dear Vice-Presidents, Minister Jeremic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Parliamentary Group of Minorities and the Bosniak List will certainly support these very valuable amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act. I hope that they will allow, Mr. Minister, that this government, or you as foreign minister, to apply one very important decision of the government in the past meeting on enhanced participation, or participation of members of national minorities, among other things, in addition to other state bodies and in the diplomatic and consular representations of our country, of course, in line with the interests of members of these national minorities and in line with the interests of our country. I would briefly remind here that the Parliamentary Group of Minorities, when the Foreign Affairs Act was adopted, submitted an amendment requiring the realisation of that decision, or strategy, and in the meantime constitutional provisions, not to mention European standards, on the involvement of members of national minorities in this very important segment of state policy. Therefore, I ask you to take extra advantage of these amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act and to include representatives of national minorities in the work of our country's diplomatic and consular representations in the world based on your decisions. A parliamentary group of minorities and the Bosniak List will support changes and additions to this law. I'd like to use this time for a group of minority MPs and, very briefly, in a few sentences, draw attention to a very current thing in Sandzak. In fact, I arrived this morning from Tutin, where I usually live. There is a very overheated atmosphere, related to Bosnian reis performances in the Sanjay municipalities. I would like this opportunity to say that I have information that there – despite the request of the Tutin Municipality Assembly to ban such high-risk gatherings and, I would say, a wise decision by the MUP to prohibit the maintenance of today's gathering of Bosnian Reis in the Tutin square – both groups of believers, both on the one hand and on the other. I want this opportunity to appeal to the believers too, and I want both management currents in the Islamic community, and I want the MUP to continue to monitor the security situation and to enable peace in that part of our country and to guarantee, of course, the personal and property rights of the citizens of that region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19366	The People's Messenger Nenad Prokic has the word. After him, the Messenger of the people Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19367	Dear Minister, your mandate marks one tragic confusion. The tragedy is a genre that tragically wants to explain through a comic metaphor. I think your hands are somewhat tied to the general confusion that this government has fallen into at all levels, but you're adding your contribution. It's tragic that you're arguing with our neighbors. After ten years of painful improvement of relations with Croatia, one of your statements brings us back several years. For two years you have not opened a consulate in Podgorica, you are now opening several in Montenegro's katuns, small states. In Rijeka, which has 15,000 Serbs, you close the consulate. Twice more citizens of Serbia come there because they have their property there, and five more flights to Istria, and more and more will fly in spite of efforts to corrupt relations between Croatia and Serbia. With three states, we have a trade surplus, with only three countries in the world – with Bosnia, with Montenegro and with Macedonia. What are our diplomatic relations with Macedonia? What are our diplomatic relations with Montenegro? How are things with Bosnia? Frozen with Macedonia, frozen with Montenegro, and Bosnia seems to me, we view only as a polygon for future conflicts. It is tragic that you are voting against the human rights resolution in Iran to give them back their dear love for the resolution on Kosovo, but I warn you that foreign diplomacy is not a poker game. Tragic is a subordinate and voluntary condescending relationship with Russia, because you won the election on the basis of some other promises – that we will be in the EU, not how we will be leaders of the third or turn to another side of the world. I accept your apology for refusing to join the speech, but I can't help but feel that it's the broadcasting of the same contempt that the government has brought before its own parliament and towards it, because it's been campaigning against its own parliament for two months. It will likely enter the annals of modern democracy, that one government is campaigning against its own parliament in all the media it controls. It's tragic, of course, that you're knowingly breaking the Civil Service Act today. I think something should be radically changed in foreign policy, rooted in the government's attitude towards our own assembly, if we want to see some better days and get out of this tragic situation that the government has introduced us to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19368	The word was sought by Minister Vuk Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19369	I want to apologize to the MPs first because I missed something to say about this third priority, which is to improve relations in the region. That, I agree, is one of the most important things for this country. It is, of course, one of the foreign policy priorities, but I cannot agree with Mr Prokic, who says that one of my statements has ruined relations with Croatia. No, what burdens relations with Croatia is the fact that Croatia has sued Serbia for genocide. We have not yet referred our countersuit; it is being prepared because we have no other way out than to refer a countersuit. The fact is that a state is suing us for genocide; it is a fact that a state is jeopardizing our sovereignty and territorial integrity by recognising Kosovo; the fact is that there is no symmetry in treating Serbian capital in Croatia compared to Croatian capital in Serbia. These are things that, in my view, with all due respect, are far more burdened by the relations between Serbia and Croatia than by my statement that during Operation "Storm" in Croatia in 1995, ethnic cleansing was done, which is true, Mr Prokic. One of my statements, which says the truth about ethnic cleansing of Serbs, as painful as it is for whoever heard it, is, in my opinion, far less burdened relations with Croatia than all these things I talked about. As for the vote on human rights in Iran, if it were some kind of "quid pro quo", a tiny soap for the dear, I couldn't agree with you either. Not getting into the very measure of things, and we got into it before we made that decision, I think there are countries where there are far more violations of human rights than in Iran, which, for one reason or another, don't come to the wallpaper of that body. But let's put that aside. We are working very closely with Iran in one of Serbia's most important foreign policy priorities, which is to preserve sovereignty and territorial integrity. On Saturday, I will participate in a ministerial meeting in the Organisation of the Islamic Conference, where Saudi Arabia submitted a resolution to the Muslim world to collectively recognise Kosovo as an independent state. We're talking about 50 new confessions if such a resolution passes. Saudi Arabia is an extremely influential state in the Organisation of the Islamic Conference and it has the strength and capacity to do so. We will fight there, with the support of those we have worked with on this issue in the Organisation of the Islamic Conference, and Iran is one of those countries. It's not just Iran, it's Syria, Egypt, Morocco, Algeria, Indonesia and many other countries. I disagree with you that we have a condescending relationship with Russia. We have close friendly and partner relations with Russia. Russia is our close partner and Russia strongly supports us in some of the most important things for us. I would say Russia strongly supports us in all Serbia's priorities. It supports us as far as Kosovo is concerned, supports us in principle when it comes to our desire to join the EU, supports us in regional co-operation as well. I would judge our relationship with Russia in many ways, but not as condescending. He's close, friendly and partnered. I'm saying, relations with the region are our priority, and that's why I'm forced to apologize. I have to leave this session because within the next 45 minutes, Montenegro's president is visiting Serbia and I am in the official format for meetings with Montenegro's president. I really apologize for having to leave the session at this point, but this visit is the state's highest-level visit, and I'm supposed to be there. Anyway, thank you for your remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19370	Right on line, MP Nenad Prokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19371	However, I think we are the only European country that voted against the UN Human Rights Resolution in Iran. No other foreign policy can explain to me how we can be the only European country that does it. Secondly, the genocide suit was filed by Tudjman, and he is no longer the president of the state. I think that the head of diplomacy of a serious country that has good neighbourly relations in the region must take that into account and create some new bridges after all these difficult years we've had with our neighbours. On the other hand, you seek the support of Muslims in the world, and you violate the rights of Muslims in your own country. As far as Russia is concerned, I think that understanding should first be sought in Brussels, this is the order on which you received the election, based on such pre-election promises, and only then in Moscow and elsewhere, which does not exclude Moscow, of course, I don't know why.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19372	The word has a People's MP Milos Aligrudic, followed by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19373	I am extremely sorry that the foreign minister is leaving right now by justifying it with some other obligations, although you have only six participants on the overall list of speakers in the National Assembly for this part of the agenda. If there were a list of 30 or 40 names here, I would understand the urgency of leaving, but this debate and this session were scheduled in advance and the foreign minister, who is just leaving the O.R., could count on at least a little time to talk to us about this important issue. On the other hand, it is no wonder that in the opening presentations of authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, there has been a lot of talk about the basics of foreign policy, more than the very content of this technical law, simply because there is no adequate communication between Serbia's foreign policy holders and this parliament. We have had the opportunity in earlier synergy to see that the government is proposing appropriate resolutions or decisions to the National Assembly, which the National Assembly has adopted with a vast majority of votes, when it comes to basic foreign policy policies. In the past ten months, it has lagged behind, despite opposition parties' efforts, primarily the Democratic Party of Serbia, which was backed by New Serbia and other political parties, to come up with a specific stance of the National Assembly on important issues. Since this was left behind, of course, a few sentences about the elements of foreign policy must appear in a debate like this, because we rarely have the opportunity to talk to Mr. Jeremic, and from this moment on, this opportunity is missed again. I appreciate that someone from the government can come and represent the government's interests in this law, but if there's no resolute minister, who's supposed to defend the idea of this law, then it turns into nonsense. I'm going to say something about the very proposals in this law, and I'm going to prove very easily that this whole law is pointless, that it consists of six provisions that represent nothing and not only represent nothing, but some of them are very dangerous provisions. I'll get right to it, although the debate is in principle, but since the law is short, it's very easy to do. Article 3 of this Law sets out the possibility that the minister, without conducting the competition, can make a solution to the admission of other persons to a working relationship for a certain period of up to four years, in order to carry out appropriate jobs in our diplomatic and consular offices, where the number of employees, in this way employed, cannot exceed 5% of the total number of persons employed in diplomatic and consular representations. It is said, of course, that persons who are employed in this way, by the decision of the minister, without any preconditions and without any competition and without any conditions set for their employment, if they have worked in another job, with another employer, will be at peace with the rights and obligations of employment, and that they can return to that job after four years, for which they have been employed for this job. What's the problem here? Here the problem is that such a proposed provision is completely different from the way our legal system sees work relations, starting with the law governing the field of work, to the law governing the field of work in the state bodies. This is about the Lex specialization of fixed and general norms, roof norms that predict the way people are engaged in work, especially norms that say what happens to elected and appointed persons and their working relationship where they work before the elections, or appointments, i.e. the appointments. In fact, this is about entering a person into a working relationship at a certain time and because of the entry of a person into a working relationship for a certain period of time, they are at peace with their rights and obligations elsewhere where they worked. It doesn't exist in our legal system. This is a complete newspaper, and it's being introduced this way. Of course, the paper endures everything and all these brilliant ideas can be put on paper and suggested to the National Assembly, but the question is, what is it for? It is obvious that there is a certain intention to hire a certain number of persons, 20, 30, 40, perhaps more, by keeping them busy for a certain period of time – beware, it is not about setting up a function, but about employment – to decide directly by the minister, because this proposal gives him as an authorisation, without any preconditions. In this way, Serbian citizens are directly placed in an unequal position. I even believe that this provision is also against the constitution, which we will take into account later if the law passes, and we will see what its fate will be in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. One of the key reasons for the adoption of this law was the provision of Article 4 within which the deadline for meeting the obligations of officials at diplomatic and consular offices to exercise their right to health insurance is postponed. So, the government postpones its commitment for 1 January 2010, and the key reason it is stated is that the 2009 budget does not provide for financial resources for this. These people will lose their right for a whole year, from January 1st 2009 to January 1, 2010, when they will likely come up with funds in the budget for the realisation of this state commitment to persons employed. This is a scandalous provision. Whoever wrote this should be ashamed, first of all, in front of those people to whom such a thing is owed. How is it possible that no funds are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget for such a thing? Is it possible for someone to go to this National Assembly and tell us openly and publicly, by writing it in the bill? It is obviously possible, as is possible in this country, as is possible in this country, we saw last week, that someone who painted someone who did something that was incorrectly declared by these people as the biggest criminal in Serbia because they did it. In this country, anything is possible and anything can go wrong thanks to the ruling coalition that they present, among other things, and those who write this law. What's going on here? Why is there no financial resources in 2009 for the realization of this obligation, regardless of its delay? The delay is one thing, and the confession that the money is gone for a whole year is something else. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you have predicted that you simply apply the SAA to the harm of the citizens of this country, the financial damage, and that the entire ghoul you have made has turned out to be an opportunity to cover and predict these funds in the budget. Here is a category of citizens who will suffer directly because of your decisions and lack 200 or 300m euros in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Later you decided to cover that deficit in different ways through budget rebalances, where, truth be told, you predicted a reduction in public spending, which is a normal measure. And then, as a follow-up measure, you've provided for laws that don't serve anything but to tear the skin off people's backs and take more money to cover their deficits, so despite covering the deficits, you can't meet your obligations to people, to whom they have the right. That's really not right. It is indeed something that is contrary to any rule of democratic, rational and human activity in the country. Then do... The textwriter of this law, which is the only thing I can call it, a songwriter, has done something that is very funny from the aspect of nomotechnics, or how to write regulations. Article 6 of this law, which is the final provision, states: "This law enters into force on the eighth day since the day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", which is fine, and then says "except for the provisions of Article 4 which enter into force on 1 January 2009", which was subsequently corrected on 2010. What does that make sense? Where's the retroactivity? Why, in the light of the law, does the legislator refer to the retroactivity of the provision? In Article 4, and I spoke about it for a little while, I said that one category of persons was damaged and the fact of the law was moved on 1 January 2010, there is no retroactivity, but there is a delay in the application of the law until a certain date. There's no retroactivity. Of course, the obligation to those to whom the money is owed will have to be carried out retroactively. That's not controversial. However, it is technically unnecessary and ridiculous to write in the transitional provision that this provision of Article 4 will enter into force on 1 January 2010. She, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and you lawyers from the ruling coalition, enters into force on the eighth day of the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and the very provision of Article 4 speaks of deadlines. Is it possible that someone can't torture their head a little? When you write a short bill, equally harmful and stupid, then at least get yourself together a little bit and what you wanted, even though it's upside down, at least write it correctly. We did not give the amendment to the last provision of Article 6. The law on amendments and additions to the Foreign Affairs Act, because we were shocked by what it says. We have made some changes, which you will see in the discussion in particular, concerning certain provisions of this law, to correct the damage that has been done here when it comes to conditions for persons to be employed. After all, what are the qualifications of someone who has been drawn from somewhere, what are the knowledge of the foreign minister about certain persons – besides friendly, cousins, I do not see that some thirds of the knowledge can be about these persons – to remember and to employ them for four years in a working relationship at a certain time at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in diplomatic and consular representations? What criteria do they meet? Where does that say? Is this provision related to the general criteria that stand in the second part of the law, when it comes to conditions for establishing a working relationship in this way? Where do you see it, how is it connected? Such a law is in itself bad and nakarad. Maybe the foreign minister, who I resent for not being here, but I can't blame him for the industriousness, the enormous effort and the energy he's putting into it, because it's obvious to everyone... Something like that, the foreign minister of this government can never be resented. All we can do is resent his bad foreign policy, which apparently he's not wearing, he's just interpreting. The country's poor foreign policy is not even carried by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which would have to do so under the Constitution. It is clearly defined in Boris Tadic's cabinet, and all the shortcomings in this foreign policy, i.e. misinterpreting the order and priorities of state interest where European integration is said to be above all, rather than its own state and its integrity, where, in accordance with this, all the wrong moves, such as quick, easy, simple recognition of the functioning of Eulex on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is aimed at implicitly and ultimately explicit recognition of Kosovo's independence; such as the quick conclusion of the EU's Stabilisation and Association Treaty, without clearing the key issue of integrity protection through such an agreement and talks with our partners from the EU to protect the elements of state integrity; such as other cases that have been discussed here. Had it not been so done, that this parliament was discussing foreign policy in an adequate way, if this parliament had had had the opportunity to say, by a vast majority of votes, that it supports the single foreign policy of the Serbian state, might have had some credit, perhaps the foreign minister, even thanks to his efforts and efforts, would have a credit in passing such a law, so perhaps we could have a different way and another tone to talk about. Unfortunately, that loan doesn't exist. It's something you're going to face here, and on a bill like this, it's an honor to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19374	The word has a folk MP Dejan Mirovic, followed by Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19375	Ladies and gentlemen, when these changes to the Law on Foreign Affairs are analysed, it is obvious that Kosovo and Metohija are only indirectly mentioned in the reasoning of the bill. I think that the legislator (which is not there), the minister or his team, should have put a clear formulation into Article 5, which would define this pledge or a kind of diplomatic-legal struggle for Kosovo and Metohija, which is so much discussed in the media, if it were to be made public and through numerous statements. For example, this pledge could be defined in Article 5 in the following words: starting with the fact that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia... Or an even more determined and clear definition could be used, for example: starting with the fact that Kosovo and Metohija are in the process of violent and illegal separation from the Republic of Serbia... So, the billmaker had to define the new circumstances in such a clear and unequivocal way, because the law that is changing here was passed in 2007, before February of last year and already known developments in relation to Kosovo and Metohija. But the legislator and the government didn't seem to have the courage to enter these formulas into Article 5 of the Law. Of course, we from the Serbian Radical Party, to be perfectly clear, would support such changes to the Foreign Affairs Act. For us, the interest of the state is above all else. Also, the bill states that the government, as well as in the case of depriving funds to the foreign ministry at the time of budget rebalances, has decided to silence or avoid the problems of Kosovo and Metohija and the issues of maintaining diplomatic relations with countries that have recognised a false fabric on Serbian territory. More specifically, when analysing point 4) of Article 5, it is clear why the proposing is defined for such an approach, or avoiding problems. In our practice, it is the application of the Halstein doctrine to those countries that have recognised the false state of Kosovo. It should be pointed out that this is a key issue for our diplomacy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also for the minister himself. In particular, in light of this law that is changing today, the following questions should be asked – what strategy should be chosen in this case? Of course, there are two extremes: one is an end to diplomatic relations with all countries that have recognised a false state of Kosovo, and that is an unrealistic option, above all because an opportunity has been missed at the very beginning of the process of recognising the false state of Kosovo. It was then a single-digit number of states, and then it could react more sharply. Also, it was possible to act preventively then, as many countries have watched and analysed how Serbia will react in the situation. It is now clear that it is for such a measure, because there are already 58 countries that have recognised so-called. Kosovo, late. Unfortunately, among them are some countries that are our significant economic partners. On the other hand, when we propose to amend Article 5 in this context. The law on foreign affairs is aware that Serbia is not the Russian Federation, which has the largest gas supply in the world, or the People's Republic of China, which even in this global economic crisis records the growth of gross domestic product; of course, we are not Germany, which last year recorded exports worth around 1,000 billion euros, but a small and poor country whose gross domestic product does not account for 1% of the world. It's similar to both territory and population. In these real circumstances, we need to move our foreign policy. It must aim to ensure that this number of 58 countries that have recognised the fake formation of Kosovo no longer increases. The extremes that need to be avoided are isolation and economic damage that would occur if some type of Halstein's Serbian doctrine were literally applied to all countries that have recognised a false state. On the other hand, thoughtful rather than propaganda amendments to Article 5. The law could avoid another, no less harmful, possibility. This second extreme manifests itself, first of all, in avoiding problems or avoiding real circumstances. Unfortunately, due to current state and foreign policy, we have come to this second, equally harmful, extreme. First of all, it manifests itself and recognises itself in fundamental inactivity in the recognition of the false state of Kosovo. This fundamental inactivity has led directly to the situation that foreign countries, even those who have several times less gross domestic product than Serbia or an external trade deficit in exchange with our country or several times smaller population or size of territory than Serbia, think primarily of countries from the region, such as Montenegro, Macedonia, Croatia and Slovenia, the inactivity of our diplomacy and the non-application of the Halstein doctrine for recognition of so-called. Kosovo states are interpreting it as an incentive to recognise a false state in Serbian territory. To be honest, the other extreme is the complete non-application of Halstein's doctrine. This is the case with our country today, and this is the extreme that causes damage, no less than the first extreme of isolation. Even with full right, it can be claimed that it, in the long run, has led to even worse consequences than it would have brought about that other extreme. First of all, our diplomacy but also the state has lost its reputation and seriousness. That is why it is clear to everyone that we have no strategy or plans that could mate with countermeasures that are almost cyclically repeated every few months regarding Kosovo and Metohija. That fact cannot hide any propaganda statements from the Foreign Ministry, nor so much a glorified process in front of the International Court of Justice, which is otherwise at the beginning, from a legal point of view, but at risk because of so-called. Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which led to a recent verdict by our generals and politicians. It is simply uncanny that no one from the foreign ministry has taken this into account, nor has he conducted lessons from the process conducted before the International Court of Justice in connection with the BiH lawsuit. As if no one in that competent ministry has read the International Court of Justice ruling in that case, which is based, among other things, on the judgment of the so-called so-called. The Hague tribunal in the case of General Krstic. It is simply incomprehensible, because it is public data, even books about it have been published, for example the book "Serbia in the International Court of Justice"; there is the title "The Judgment" and in many places, if you read in general that judgment of the International Court of Justice, it calls for judgments, so on. The Hague tribunal. For example, on page 443, I quote "the destruction, as understood by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in the case of Krstic and Blagojevic". They are then listed on the following page as relevant opinions of the Prosecutor's Office, so-called The Hague tribunal in the case of Krstic. These views are more than incomprehensible to every lawyer, let alone a statesman or diplomat, because when you read, for example, the book of Carla del Ponte, you will see that it openly admits that by 1990 it did not even know that Republika Srpska existed. So much for the relevance of the Hague prosecutor's office, its impartiality and direction towards events in the Balkans. However, the government and the Foreign Ministry assure us of something that is impossible, which is that it can be co-operated with such a UN tribunal, while at the same time achieving a good result before the International Court of Justice. This, ladies and gentlemen, is difficult and serious and commentary, because it only shows the absurd state of our diplomacy today. This situation best characterizes and defines the phrase – Kosovo and Europe at the same time. The phrase is usually said at a time when the European Commission's map of Kosovo and Serbia as two separate states stands on the website. Unfortunately, this is just a continuation of the decades-old titosic phrases about the East and the West, the North and the South, which the SFRY left without any serious ally in the world. It's hardly like these superficial changes to the Foreign Affairs Act are going to fix that situation. Because of previous facts, no one, not even the smallest country, takes seriously phrases and passwords about the serious struggle for Kosovo and Metohija anymore. In this context, we point out that we advocate a kind of compromise solution between the two extremes previously listed. We stand for a solution that would prevent isolation, but also a solution that would restore dignity to our diplomacy and initiative no less important on the international scene, but in the true sense of that word, not in populist and propaganda, a solution that would face the problem, but that would not mean running from reality. We believe that at this point, Halstein's doctrine should be selectively applied because of the poor economic situation in the country and the crisis affecting our country. The basic principle of this application would be economic, more precisely the doctrine would only be applied if the interruption of diplomatic relations did not harm the external trade of our country, the economy in general, and the standard of our citizens. In this sense, we are starting from a similar assumption as power, of course, they say in a propaganda sense, that only strong and economically wealthy Serbia can preserve Kosovo and Metohija in its composition, but we are not stopping at that definition, but we are further working on it because it is not an excuse for inactivity and, slightly speaking, an unserious approach to the Kosovo and Metohija problem. We are going from economic data, not from neotytoistic blindness to the West, which is also characterized by the underestimation of the Russian Federation, as well as the masochistic fulfillment of Brussels' wishes and the dogmatic application of Brussels' ideology. On concrete examples, our approach looks like this. In Article 5 of the law, according to statistics from the 2008 statistical yearbook of the Republic Institute, the following could be concluded: the export of the Republic of Serbia to the United States in 2006 was less than that achieved by Serbia in trade with Germany. A similar trend has been recorded in previous years. In 2007, we exported almost seven times less goods to the UK than to BiH. To compare, goods worth $1,042,000,000 were exported to neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. I remind you, BiH has a market of 4.5 million people, and Britain has about 60 million inhabitants. So, according to economic data, our exports to the British market are more than modest. In the same period in Italy we exported goods worth about $1094,000, and in Germany goods worth $937,000. So again, several times more export value than that achieved in the UK trade. Given this data, it is clear that Halstein's doctrine should not be fully applied to Germany and Italy. It is clear that Germany and Italy are our large foreign trade partners and the interruption of diplomatic relations with them would cause damage to our businesses. On the other hand, the literal application of Halstein's doctrine towards Great Britain is more than possible. Exporting to that country is minimal. He's even smaller in practice, if it's known that the branches of British companies operating here are doing so on privileged terms. They sell their products abroad and book it as Serbian exports, which only increases the value of our exports on paper. On the other hand, it is clear to every neutral observer that Britain's aggressive efforts to create an independent Kosovo makes Serbia more damage than we benefit from modest economic co-operation with the country. I will remind you, ladies and gentlemen, it is only enough to compare the value of the mining wealth and Serbian enterprises in Kosovo, which we are losing precisely because of the aggressive policy of Britain which supports the creation of a phantom state of Kosovo on Serbian territory, or the expenditure we have in the fight for Kosovo and Metohija precisely because of the British policy of forcing independence so-called. Kosovo. Not to mention human tragedies, victims and problems with our people who don't even have a roof over their heads because of that British policy. No less important are the consequences of corruption forced by British diplomatic representatives in Serbia today. I mean all kinds of corruption, political, economic and other. It is because of this corruption that Serbia suffers huge damage, especially in the economic sector, because people who put their personal interests ahead of the general multipliers are causing huge damage to the state, and hence to the standard of our citizens. So I'm not talking about any conspiracy, or accusing anyone, but simply realizing that there is corruption produced by individual foreign embassies, in this case British. In accordance with the principle of economic usefulness, Halstein's doctrine could be fully applied to this country. This could have been made possible by amendments to Article 5. The law on foreign affairs and the clear definitions proposed by the SRS. Also, in the context of this Article 5, a similar situation arises in the case of trade in goods with the United States. It should now be the basis for an assessment of foreign policy towards this country. Of course, in the application of the law, the minister should have taken into account another fact. The foreign ministry is not isolated from reality, from its people. It is a ministry that exists in Serbia and must take into account the mood of public opinion sooner or later. These studies show, in the case of the United States, that this country is the most unpopular country in our country. Look at the various public opinion researches and you will see that, regardless of the very opposite attitude of the political and intellectual elite, which today is dominant in our media and so on. Foreign policy council. As is known, demonstrations are announced only because of Mr. Beyden's visit to Belgrade. Of course, in the context of this and the changes in Article 5. The law on foreign affairs should take into account the following fact. The application of the Halstein doctrine did not bring economic stagnation to Western Germany at the time, on the contrary, West Germany has only progressed economically in the past few decades and has led its economy to the EU's leading, while preserving national dignity, precisely because of the application of the Halstein doctrine. The trade is the case where economic progress and preservation of national dignity are claimed not to be at the same time processes and possible processes. On the contrary, only states and countries with confidence and national dignity can build a strong and stable economy. Only afterwards can it be discussed about achieving long-term goals, such as unifying Germany after 50 years or returning Kosovo and Metohija to the Republic of Serbia and in fact. So the substitute is the thesis when it's said that we should first lose our national dignity to live better. This kind of foreign policy that is being led today and running away from the problem will also lose our national honor, i.e. Kosovo and Metohija, and a chance to live better. Therefore, the legislator should have amended Article 5(1) in a way that would allow for the application of the full member. This could be done again in practice, in the case of Britain and the United States, in line with Serbia's economic interest. According to the already mentioned source, exports to the US in 2007 were 13 times lower than those achieved with BiH. I repeat, 13 times smaller, although the United States has 66 times more inhabitants than BiH. The gross domestic product of BiH and the United States is incomparable. Also, our exports to Montenegro in 2007 were 11 times larger than those achieved on the US market. Again, as in the case of comparisons with BiH data, the incomparable population is approximately 500 times in favour of the United States. It's similar with a gross social product. Also, when we talk about countries where Halstein's doctrine should not be applied, our exports to Italy were 13 times higher in 2007 than in the United States. Similarly, our exports to the German market were 11 times bigger than the one we made with the United States. There are huge differences when exports to the Russian Federation are compared with those achieved in trade with the United States. Over five times more exports to the Russian Federation. It is similar when comparing the value of our exports to Austria and the United States or our exports to Greece and the United States. It is clear that all of these, I point out, official data show that Serbia is not dependent on the US in economic and export terms, and we have previously cited neither on the UK, therefore, on the two countries most aggressive when it comes to creating a fake Kosovo state on Serbian territory. In that sense, according to Britain, the United States should also apply the Halstein doctrine completely. It is not necessary to repeat it, nor to underline in particular what kind of problems this country is making for us in foreign policy. Of course, here, as in the case of the British Embassy, the issue of corruption in our society is also being raised, which is now being encouraged by the US Embassy, corruption that is causing damage to the economy, politics and other areas and which are affecting the standard of our citizens, as well as probably the so-called. Foreign policy council. So, one balanced approach, one wise, serious and state-owned diplomacy would selectively apply Halstein's doctrine towards large economic partners in Western Europe; at the same time, to the US and Britain, it would be fully applied, because these countries, it is clear that they are not our significant economic partners. In order for this approach to exist, which is not extraordinary but is not defetistic, the Ministry would have to amend Article 5. The law on foreign affairs. In addition to this decision and with the intention to influence this bill and to be in line with the real situation, not with the neotitoistic unreal phrases about the East, the West, the North and the South and the Dogmatic Progmatic Ideology on the simultaneous achievement of EU entry and the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of Serbia, the following data are also listed. Among the first five export partners of the Republic of Serbia in 2007 there is neither the United States nor the UK. First place is Italy, second place in BiH, Germany, fourth place in the Russian Federation, and Slovenia fifth place in fifth place. As far as import partners are concerned, neither Britain nor the United States is among the first six. The first place is held by the Russian Federation, the second place by Germany, the third place by Italy, the fourth place by China, the fifth place by BiH, and the sixth place by Slovenia. If we compare those numbers in one neutral way, then we come to similar conclusions again. For example, we imported seven times more goods from the Russian Federation than we imported from the United States in the same period, or 12 times as much from the Russian Federation compared to the UK. Similar figures appear when compared to exports from Italy, which is four times more valuable than American or eight times more valuable than British. Also, imports from Germany are worth six times more than American or ten times British, and in the case of BiH, imports from this small neighbouring country are worth 1.3 times that of the US or two-and-a-half times that of Britain. So these are all arguments that the Ministry should apply in case it intends to seriously lead foreign policy. It's obvious from this bill that, unfortunately, that's not the case. The legislator should have changed Article 5 to point 1) in the way we proposed. It is clear that this is an important part of Article 5, which states that the foreign ministry is organising, within its competence, visits at the official state and diplomatic level. Of course, in the context of the debate on amendments to the law, but also because of the upcoming events, this topic is very current. As is widely known, Serbia should soon visit US Vice President Joseph Biden. This visit must certainly be viewed in a broader context. If it were just a visit to US Vice President Belgrade, perhaps it could be interpreted as a kind of diplomatic effort aimed at improving relations or so on. Restoring how it was ordered from Washington to the Russian Federation while also organising provocations in Georgia. But given that Biden will visit Pristina as part of this tour, as well as Sarajevo, it can only be interpreted as one kind of harsh provocation. For example, Biden will certainly not be restrained in his statements in Pristina. No doubt, he'll talk about so-called. Kosovo state, its alleged prospects and so on. In addition, according to an official interpretation of his visit to Washington on May 15th, he visits three countries, not two, although it is clear to all that this false creation cannot survive for several months without US support, or according to UN Development Programme research, 70% of Kosovo residents are ready to protest the poor economic situation. In this regard, it should be pointed out that the US vice president is as a person far from being a role model for a moderate statesman and diplomat or someone who could make progress in Serbian-American relations primarily because of his personal abilities. This visit byden cannot even be compared to that of Secretary of State Colin Powell a few years ago. Powell, however, visited Serbia at a time when the United States did not announce it would raise the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, which was then resolved by Security Council Resolution 1244. Also, as much as he worked against Serbia's interest during his term of office, because his crucial role in the extradition and abduction of the late Slobodan Milosevic, which Carla del Ponte has openly written, has never allowed himself to make statements that are in the right sense of that definition, so as defined by the 1997 Council of Europe's recommendation on hate speech, were hate speech, as Biden has done several times. Just to analyse a few statements byden, for example: a scandalous and war crimes statement for the famous American weekly "Time" since 3 May 1993 when he literally stated "that the United States must lead the West in air strikes against Serbs"; or a similar statement given for a Washington radio since 15 May 1993 when he spoke of a Serb expansion; or that statement after meeting with Biljan Plasic, which is almost impossible to quote; and his almost hysterical calls to eliminate Serbs as a people from the time of NATO's 1999 aggression, when Senator Biden proposed, literally, reintroducesor for our people. So Biden has more than a prominent role in this kind of collection of anti-Serb hate speech, which is of course never sanctioned. Of course, I don't think now is the time or place to quote all the scandalous statements made byden, which are nevertheless at the level of the head of the primitive propaganda bureau. My intention was just to show that those statements were not taken out of context, but that they were the result of the deep conviction of the American Vice President. In addition to the offensive and propaganda character that it has, this visit to Biden, apparently, will have no positive effect in relations between the United States and Serbia, so-called. Restoring. Why am I saying that? The foreign ministry certainly studied the history of US and Serbian diplomatic relations, then between Yugoslavia and the United States. She certainly knows that the last visit to a US secretary of state to the former SFRY was made on June 21st 1991. They must know that it was then that Baker met with all relevant republican leaders, with the leadership of JNA, Mr Markovic and the separatist leaders of Kosovo. According to written testimony from the actors of these meetings, Baker expressed different views to all his controversies, and they, of course, interpreted it each in their own way, so anyway the bad situation in the former Yugoslavia became even more complicated and worse for its citizens after visiting former US Secretary of State James Baker. Just six days after Baker's visit, on June 27th, a massacre of multinational JNA forces began in Slovenia. This lesson should be kept in mind by the ministry and other government officials when visiting so long-awaited US vice president. Also, as regards the expected economic aid that will allegedly come from the United States after the visit of Beyden, there are more than relevant testimonies that show how unrealistic and naive it is to expect such a thing from US officials. For example, it is generally known that several weeks ago visiting our country he was the last prime minister of SFRY Ante Markovic. Of course, according to the replacement of thesis and neoliberal ideology which is now dominant in our public and government, Ante Markovic was presented as a man who had no fault, nor a mistake in political and economic terms. Basically, by selectively showing the event, he is depicted as a kind of savior who was not given the chance by then's leaders to save Yugoslavia, with the help of the 'good-willed West'. The reality, however, was different from this propaganda phrase and from the phrases used in the reasoning of the law. Markovic's visit was organised sometime in the first half of 1989 and was best described by one of the actors and a visit, former US ambassador to the SFRY, the last US ambassador to the former state of Warren Cimmerman. In his book "The Origin of a Catastrophe", Cimmerman, describing Markovic's visit, reads on page 29 and 30, quotes: "More than anything, Markovic wanted the support of the West. He saw the U.S. as a key country. "This is very current in this year 2009. Then Cimmerman states: "Markovic wanted to visit Washington and meet with President Bush, he wanted clear confirmations of US support with his programmes, and above all he wanted money. "Then Cimmerman states Markovic asked for no less than four billion dollars. And this sounds familiar and current. However, Cimmerman states that this was getting help in practice. I quote, "He didn't get any of that. The U.S. government paid nothing during his visit. In fact, the only meal that Markovic himself didn't have to pay for was a work breakfast at the Foreign Affairs Council in New York." Then Cimmerman states: "The brief encounter with President Bush was somewhat disappointing, which is why the two have not reached key Yugoslav problems. At the end of the half hour, Markovic was heartily escorted without even being able to mention most of his applications for economic assistance. "So Cimmerman openly says that the prime minister of the former Yugoslavia, a country of 22 million, has not received any of the promised assistance from the United States, not even protocol attention, as stemmed from previous quotes. Ladies and gentlemen, this makes it clear that Serbia, which has several times fewer inhabitants than the former Yugoslavia, cannot hope for any direct US aid, regardless of the naive performances from the letter of the president of the Republic of Serbia, George Bush of 2004. The question arises, then, what is the purpose of Beiden's visit, if it is not an economic nature, and this stems from earlier quotes showing that the United States is not giving anyone significant economic assistance, but exclusively its capital is placed through the interest-bearing conditions of the IMF, an organisation to which we pay the debt of Kosovo, although it recognises Kosovo as a state. It is more than clear from the above that it is not the purpose of visiting nor the political assistance or favor of Serbia's current US vice president, who, on the contrary, is the least said. It is clear that Beiden's visit can only be about Kosovo and Metohija. In this context, we return to the proposal to amend Article 5 and add additional guarantees to the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Biden's next statement paints the true goal of his visit to Belgrade and Pristina. A debate on Kosovo and Metohija's status took place in the US Foreign Affairs Committee in November 2005. Then Senator Joseph Biden openly presented the real reason for US policy towards Kosovo and Metohija. I quote, according to the allegations published in our media: "Pristina is one of several Muslim cities in a world where the United States is not only respected, but also prices. If Kosovo ends right," Biden said, "we will remind Muslims around the world that the United States has been helped by the Kosovo population and helped build a strong, independent, multiethnic society. "In 2009, on 15 May, an official interpretation of Biden's visit was made, which is -- the assistance Biden provides to Kosovo and Bosnia should also be given in mind by the Middle East states. I remind the Foreign Ministry that it was required to take into account this kind of strategy of the United States. Because this is general public information. In that sense, the ministry was obliged to protect Serbian national interests and to oppose in a politically and peaceful way a kind of global compensation done by Washington because of the anti-Muslim policy that the United States is leading in the Middle East, Iraq, Palestine and Afghanistan. Such arguments and analyses on the real reasons for US policy towards Serbia also confirm US pullen or instrument statements, Hashim Thaci, in which he supports US aggression and ethnic cleansing in Iraq and Afghanistan and even falsely compares Albanians, Iraqis and Afghans, with unbulkable claims that they are all free people after US bombing. It is more than clear what is the real goal of visiting Joseph Bidena in the region and it is not necessary to get carried away with false hopes, nor should people be deceived that there will be some change in relations with the United States or the provision of some economic assistance. In that sense, the bill promoter should, in accordance with point 11 of the same article and in particular point 12, offer us an analysis of the international position of the Republic of Serbia and bilateral relations with other countries. In line with point 11, it should have explained why there was no clear definition of the importance of Kosovo and the Metohija for the Republic of Serbia. It also did not allow for real analysis of foreign policy aspects of defence and national security, as however much authorities and controlled media have tried to ignore it, Kosovo and Metohija account for 15% of our territory. Also, if the legislator had taken these changes into account the real circumstances, he could have made a long-term analysis of the international position of the Republic of Serbia through the introduction of clear definitions of Kosovo and Metohija, exactly in line with the above facts, but in line with international diplomacy. I'm asking the State Department if that analysis even exists. If there is, how many sides are there? How many authors or teams worked on her design and how long? I also hope that this analysis, if it exists at all, takes together the following facts and principles of foreign policy: for example, the definitions of the already mentioned Henry Kissinger, the long-standing US Secretary of State and advisers of many American presidents over the past four decades, a man who, like Andreotti in Italy or Yevgeny Primakov in the Russian Federation, has created his country's internal and external policies for years or decades. It is certainly known to the Foreign Ministry that both Lawrence Iglberger and Brent Skoupt were his first associates, as well as to us very well-known Richard Holbrook, as well as senior officials so-called. Clinton's administrations, Tony Lake and many others. In that sense, in line with the debate on changes to the Foreign Affairs Act, I ask the Foreign Ministry whether it is in the preparation of an external policy analysis, if any, and in accordance with point 12. The law on foreign affairs, concerning politics towards Kosovo and Metohija, was based on the basic principles of American foreign policy, which Henry Kissinger stated in 1979: "My approach was strategic, geopolitical, I tried to bring events into interactions, create, cause incentives and pressures in one part of the world to affect events in another part of the world"? So this is the 1979 definition. However, these are more than current words, because according to this definition Kissinger and his team have established several basic principles that have been governed, which is, above all, the principle of integration, because our view is that events in different parts of the world are interlinked. In the context of the above, and since it is more than clear that the United States has a long-term strategy towards Kosovo and Metohija, which is more than obviously related to events in the Middle East, according to our future guest Biden, I would like to get a concrete answer to the question that cannot be obtained from these amendments of the Law at all, because there is obviously no analysis or strategy whatsoever. Or the strategy is based, unfortunately, on the neotitoistic logic of the East, the West, the North and the South and similar non-serious phrases that essentially led to the collapse of another Yugoslavia, with headless borrowing from the IMF and other financial institutions. Perhaps this strategy is based on the dogmatic-oriented pro-Western policy that has been conducted in this country for the past nine years and which has suffered its total collapse in February 2008, when the countries that allegedly were our priority partners led the process, so that the absurdity in which our foreign policy fell is even greater, completely contrary to international law, the UN Charters and numerous UN resolutions, which is the process of illegal recognition of independence, etc. Kosovo. Or perhaps this strategy, which, by miracle, exists at all, is based on real circumstances, aims only at a possible and realistic solution in these circumstances, and this solution is a priority alliance with the Russian Federation, a state that can only provide us with normal relations with the West and provide us with the respect of our country by the West. It is very important to clarify whether there is any strategy at all. If it does not exist, then all these changes to the Foreign Affairs Act that we are discussing today have a purely propaganda purpose, especially when it comes to Article 5, which is one of the most significant members of the Foreign Affairs Act. The introduction of clear definitions on the Kosovo and Metohija issue was also necessary because of point 16) of the law, because according to it, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, within its competences and by the definition of the Foreign Affairs Act, proposes exactly to the Government a strategy for the development of foreign affairs and other measures forming foreign policy. The ministry also has a duty, according to this member, to inform the governments of other states and the international public about the views of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to work to strengthen the reputation of the Republic of Serbia in international relations. In this regard, it is going to collect and analyse information from foreign media dealing with Serbia. In this regard, the most recent experiences from the country and the world could be applied, for example, information flows in the case of a five-day war in the northern Caucasus, in August 2008, because the situation was very similar to that of our southern province. That conflict lasts for decades, if not centuries. Also, there is a communist heritage and a question of the limit of that era. On the other hand, all those actors, like us, appear in the event of the so-called declaration. The countries of Kosovo – Russian Federation, USA, NATO Pact, EU, OSCE. Of course, as in the case of so-called. The countries of Kosovo, the West armed one side and encouraged war, not peaceful conflict resolution and compromise acceptance. However, it is widely known that in August 2008, there was a war in which Georgia suffered a great defeat. At the same time, as in our case, a major action was launched that was supposed to create virtual reality. However, the Russian Federation managed to learn lessons from the Balkan events and successfully mate that kind of media manipulation, primarily through a satellite program in English "Russia Today". Of course, I'm not saying that we're able to finance a global satellite program worth about $100 million because we've previously made out what the total funds are for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and they're certainly less than 100 million dollars, but these scarce assets should be used in the best possible way, and that's certainly not a pointless throw-off on the so-called. lobbying in the U.S. The ministry was supposed to learn lessons from previous wasteful attempts at lobbying from the past and this decade. For example, you've seen how long Saudi Arabia, as told by the minister, has been thinking about whether to recognise independence, so-called independence. Kosovo. The recognition of Kosovo by Riyadh is yet another major failure of our diplomacy, as this significant country is the leading member of the OPEC and the OIK. That's why it was possible to find a way to mate with American pressure. That's why it's completely incomprehensible that the Ministry and the Government continue to exist, it's freely said, a naive notion that some lobbying in the United States can change the country's policy towards so-called. An independent Kosovo. The ministry of foreign affairs and authorities is sure to know that former SRJ was an American citizen, Milan Panic. Such a thing has not been achieved by many ministers in the Dossos governments who have been educated in the United States and Great Britain, or who have worked for Western banks. They're probably aware that he tried to lobby in his second homeland, U.S.A. According to his successor's testimony in the prime minister's post, the then state summit agreed with Panic's idea of lobbying. This purpose was intended to be used by the entire foreign exchange reserve of the SRJ then. They were about 250 million dollars back then. But, ladies and gentlemen, no pi-ar agency wanted to earn this amount, apparently she didn't want to violate the sanctions. Even a direct payment offer has been refused. Such a gesture might also be understandable if US pi-ar agencies did not accept money from Kosovo Albanians who were then within a state called the SRJ. For example, the Ruder and Fin agency received $250,000 for six months of its work in the same period from Kosovo Albanians. So when these figures are compared, it is clear that these agencies are just an extended instrument of American foreign policy, not some kind of organisation that is handled by economic reasons. A similar conclusion is made when the attempts so-called "supervised" are analysed. lobbying in the U.S. after 2000. The minister certainly knows that the President of the Republic's office hired several years ago to lobby in the United States a company owned by Israeli citizens. One of them was the head of the cabinet of the former Israeli prime minister. He was otherwise convicted before the Telavian court of fraud and breach of trust. As is known, our position in the United States is being followed by this so-called lobbying just made it worse. Also, our position in the United States has not changed the fact that even six pi-ar agencies lobbyed for the Serbian side in Washington during 2005, or the fact that former Canadian Prime Minister Brian Malruni agreed to organise a Serbian lobby in the United States with a large media pump. A similar situation occurred when the so - called organization was organized. Serbian coconut in Congress U.S.A. In this context, the ministry should have listened to a reasonable and realistic analysis of Martin Slezinger from the Vudro Wilson Institute, which was, in fact, a few years ago in 2004, told the BBC site in Serbian that most congressmen or senators are completely uninterested in Kosovo and that the congressional resolution is in no way bound by the US administration. Neither in Serbia nor in Kosovo should it be thought that the resolution proposed by five or six congressmen, which has been under debate for several hours, suggests a general mood in Congress. I guarantee you that the vast majority of the members have absolutely no position on Kosovo. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the real reality and from it should be set aside by the Foreign Ministry and all other institutions of this country. How pointless lobbying in the U.S. shows the following example. It is widely known that the Greek lobby is one of the most influential in the United States. For example, Brezinski believes that the lobby is among the first three in influence in the United States. Also, according to the official 2000 census, there were more Greeks in the US than Serbs, Croats, Albanians and other peoples from the former Yugoslavia combined. On the list held that year, their number was around 1,153,000. The Greeks were present in all areas of the public life of the United States. In the early 1970s, the vice president of the United States was the son of a Greek settler. The former head of the US intelligence agency was also a descendant of Greek settlers, George Tennet. In 1988. Michael Dukakis was the presidential candidate in front of the Democratic Party. However, even such an organised lobby as the Greek lobby has failed for a pedal to change US policy regarding Cyprus, although the problem has lasted since 1973, so for over three decades. The policy did not change the fact that the Greek lobby had absolute supremacy in Congress in 1973, nor the fact that Congress made a decision to deny Turkey assistance under the provisions of the foreign aid document. Nothing like that has changed in American foreign policy for over three decades. The U.S. administration has failed to comply with Congress's demands. So if the Greek lobby, which is so powerful and influential, failed to change anything in US foreign policy, it certainly will not succeed any Serbian cocus, nor any unrealistic notion that any diplomatic action by Serbia could change the US's position, which is obviously linked to the situation in the Middle East and the anti-Muslim policy that the United States is leading in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19376	The word is from MP Zoran Ostojic, followed by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19377	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, it is already from the discussion of my predecessors from the LDP Parliament Club that we clearly cannot accept these amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act. Because of the citizens, I have to repeat the main arguments. It is clear that this is a law that the foreign ministry needs to build a party ministry. I hate to look into the Secretary of Defense here and talk about foreign affairs and this law, but I'm going to try to focus on Mr. Jeremic's chief of staff. Simply, you will pass it on to him; as far as we know, you are a man for special tasks, let's remember the Kovacevic case, you are not so irrelevant in that ministry. So it's quite shocking that what the LDP has been up against since its beginning, which is a party state, here some law tries to sharpen, because it's impossible to explain differently the demand for the foreign minister to have this discretionary authority in his company. That it's private, so let's understand, but it's a state body. Imagine if every ministry were to claim the right to employ 5% of the ministry at its discretion. For example, Mr. Sutanovac has a lot of people and 5% compared to the number he has at the ministry would really be a lot. So this is an attempt to legally mutilate the strengthening of the party state. That's why LDP can't support it. On the other hand, the fact is that the Security Service Act has been abolished from the Ministry, but it is undeniable that you have any intention regarding these security services. The minister says he has abolished the information and documentation service, that it is only an analytical service now, and that the security service must exist and that it is the internal security and external security of diplomatic and consular representations. However, these amendments to the Law unequivocally result in you making some new service there, by reorganising, abolishing, and we really think that this discretionary right of 5% of employees will serve to fill in, among other things, that service. Foreign relatives and friends, as Mr Grujic of New Serbia spoke of. We really think this is the height of freedom to defend the party state and to demand this kind of authority. We think that for some reason, I can't figure out what the reasons are, perhaps the internal reasons of the Democratic Party, Mr. Jeremic is trying to form some kind of service that will be subdued to him and that, except abroad, may also work in the country, where there will be no mechanisms to control that service. Now, while your government is chasing over Serbia, Draža Mihailovic's grave, and you're restoring the Unclassified Movement at the same time and somehow Tito suddenly became fond of you, to remind you of something Tito didn't do either. Tito never in the service, he never brought soldiers to that foreign ministry, and he led you to the future service of a former soldier. Not even Tito, and we know how much Tito loved the military and how much he trusted her, he didn't play with such things that he was bringing soldiers into diplomacy, but he was always some diplomat who was educated for security. So much for militarizing the Foreign Ministry. I believe Mr. Sutanovac may be a little jealous about this, but it is clear that Mr. Jeremic has some intentions that may have something to do with the president of Serbia, perhaps they don't, I don't want to go into it. My colleagues talked about politics, bad policy run by the Ministry. Now I've made arguments against this law. I'll just say a few words about that policy. The list of gaffes Mr. Jeremic made during his term is long. It's a long list, and I'm not going to repeat it because I just don't have that much time. I will refer only to those three priorities that Minister Jeremic noted. I can conclude that, as far as all three priorities are concerned, there is no success, which is enough to conclude that foreign policy is unsuccessful, unless we can include in the success of what has been happening with Macedonia and Montenegro in recent days, and we welcome it. Since the beginning, the LDP has insisted on normalising relations with its neighbours, because this is our need, and that is our interest, but we really don't understand that at this time of crisis, when everyone is saving and when budgets are cut for both the social and the agriculture, someone thinks that every 50km in Montenegro is being opened by consulates, in Herceg Novi, Niksic and, behold, in the White Field, when there is an ambassador and embassy in Podgorica for two years, but it has not been found appropriate to open a consular representation at the embassy so far. If I were to be cynical, there is something good about Mr. Jeremic's policy, which is that he keeps talking about Kosovo, so we can eventually conclude that Kosovo is our foreign policy issue. And, if we are talking about a state policy that says Kosovo was, it is, and it is, I would advise you to open a consulate in Ulcinj instead of in the White Pole, because it is the city where the largest number of citizens from Serbia, those from Kosovo, come through the summer, so it is to conclude that there will be a need for consular services rather than in the White Field. I really don't know who's flying there, unless you take consulates as outposts to serve other interests, not to protect the rights of Serbian citizens. Consulates are paid by Serbia's taxpayers and they have the right to consular protection. Consulates do not open where Serbs who are nationals of other states live. The state of Yugoslavia had a consulate in Temisvar not because of the Serb citizens of Romania living there, but because citizens of Serbia, Serbian citizens were coming to shopping and trade, and they needed diplomatic protection. Hence, the unreasonable transfer of consulates from Rijeka to Knin is because many people fly in Istria, many people have property, Serbian citizens, which is not the case with Knin. All in all, the foreign policy of Mr. Jeremic, or Tadic or the government, since by the Constitution, the government determines and determines foreign policy, has done no good to Serbia on the path of European integration. Unfortunately, she did nothing but harm. It is good that lately some diplomatic missions, such as her in Zagreb, have not gone to Mr. Jeremic but Mr. Micunovic, and it is good that for the other day when the vice president of the United States will miss his meeting with Jeremic, I hope, so I heard. I believe that Mr. Jeremic has the strength to change that foreign policy in favour of Serbia's Euro-Atlantic integration, because that's where you from your government, you from the ruling majority, won the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19378	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic. The time available to the DSS Parliamentary Group is 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19379	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, I'm sorry that Mr. Jeremic is not here to whom I should address this occasion. I am sorry that we, Mr. Jeremic, see little in this assembly and talk very little about his policy in front of this House, so we felt it was very important that at least today, when it comes to his law, the law that's from his ministry, be here with us a little bit and exchange views. Today there were only six speakers, I am the sixth; Mr. Minister couldn't wait for us six, but he went to his other job. I'm sorry that at the end of my presentation, I'm going to have to ask Mr. Jeremic a few questions that I thought I'd have to speak to someone else, or an empty place in an O.R. that was supposed to be his. I'm going to talk a little bit about a few things that many debaters have already touched today and about which Mr Nikola Lazic, representative of the DSS, spoke very extensively in principle. So I'm going to start with Article 1. A proposal for this law defining the security issue at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the systematization of the foreign ministry, there are two such services, although Minister Jeremic tried to explain to us that they are not really real, what we imagine under that, security services. They're actually so defined in law. It's two services: one of them is the Security Service, and the other is the Service of Analytical Affairs. The first service, security services, deals with the protection of property in the country and abroad and provides confidential communication between the ministry, on the one hand, and consular offices, on the other. This second service, the Service of Analytical Affairs, is involved in gathering information and making analytical reports that and how they mean our diplomatic and consular representations. As DSS, we have no problem with that if the existence of these two services is justified they should really exist. In the systematization, they are very precisely explained. However, what we have as a problem, this is a public problem – I have data from May 6th saying that at this point in the Ministry, one of the same people appears as the boss, or is headed by both of these services, and is also a member of an NGO, the "Atlantic Council". It is simply a question of whether it is possible for such power and so much responsibility to be given and put into the hands of the same man, and that man is solely responsible for his affairs to the minister. On the other hand, real services, such as the BIA, the Military Intelligence Agency, report to parliament for their jobs, at least at the mid-term or at the end of the year, and we as parliamentarians know nothing about the existence and work of this service at the Foreign Ministry. Article 3 The bill says it is the minister's discretionary right that 5% of its foreign associates in the foreign ministry, primarily in the network of diplomatic and consular representations, can also lead to a choice, regardless of the criteria, regardless of the competition, regardless of all public standards that exist. On the other hand, other employees at the foreign ministry must be admitted by competition, to meet criteria, professional and psychophysical. Only these 5% discreetly elected by the minister (or, let's read from one party, DS and President Tadic) should be admitted for a certain period of time for four years, to establish a working relationship and during that time to be paid from budget funds. I don't think this really makes sense, and I don't think that Serbian citizens should pay the Democratic Party party's party's party in the foreign ministry. The Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed an amendment requiring all persons admitted to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to be accepted under the same criteria, to apply what is required in the Labour Act, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the Law on Civil Servants, because this disputed Article 3. The bill is contrary to both the Labour Act and the Civil Service Act. Interestingly, only ambassadors or consuls are accepted. Under that party line, lower officials can be admitted, and these people do not meet any criteria. What is crucial and why this law has entered the congregation procedure, at least that's what it says in the explanation, is what is found in the disputed Article 4. In fact, this Article 4 is abolished and prolonged, with great delay, because today it is May 18th and concerns the period from January 1st to the end of the year, the right of employees in diplomatic and consular representations to have regulated health insurance. That's scandalous. We are fully aware that you have reduced the figure by almost 20 per cent by a budget of 53,000,000 euros, as planned by the December budget for the foreign affairs of the ministry, by 14,000,000 euros, respectively. It is clear that the 14,000,000 euros is practically a shortage that would pay a lot of things, and among other things, health insurance for people employed abroad representing Serbia. In the previous member, you want to pay for a certain period of time for your party comrades, and you believe that people who are employed in this way in the Ministry, in diplomatic and consular representations, you should also cancel health insurance. This violates many laws, including the Constitution, because practically all employees have the right to be protected from the law and health care. The minister says here that the reason why this law is in the process is technically. I don't know if it's a technical thing for these people who can't be treated, which is one of the basic human rights, or whether it's something that a lot of lives here depend on. What I thought I should comment on, and we don't have a minister to comment on with it, is a few interesting things. One is Montenegro's announcement that it will send ambassadors to Belgrade and Pristina on the same day. It was interesting for me to hear from the minister how he thought he was welcome as foreign minister and how the president of the state would deal with that fact, whether it bothers them or not. Then, a statement by Mr Oliver Ivanovic, who said that it was not necessary to discuss Kosovo much with Biden. My question is – what will Mr. Jeremic, the president of the state of Tadic, who said that Jeremic is on his team and what can they talk about then? Minister Jeremic said a few things in his presentation that are not true. One of them is that he said the Foreign Ministry continues and has a policy of continuity. Please, this is completely untrue. I'd also like to say that word that people use for what's not true, but for now I'm going to stick to one lady's approach and say it doesn't answer the truth. So this is a complete policy of discontinuity. Gentlemen, there is no UNMIK in Kosovo and Metohija, Kosovo and Metohija is the Eulex that you brought here and you crossed the red line, you gave Serbia territory to another country. Gentlemen, you can't say that you won't answer. You'll respond as soon as this government is finished, and that's very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19380	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19381	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, I think this law certainly represents a shift in current practice and the introduction of some innovations in this area and something that is necessary for the foreign ministry to continue to do its job well that has worked so far. I'm known as someone who's always critical of the government, and of the government and of certain ministers at the head of certain resolutions, but if someone does their job well, that should be said loud and clear. I think that assessment can be given for the foreign ministry, especially after a win at the UN General Assembly level, and for putting Kosovo and Metohija on the agenda of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, as I think the foreign ministry should make further efforts. It cannot, of course, be pressured by the highest international judicial institution, but I think that this kind of campaign, diplomatic and media, should continue to show the International Court of Justice in The Hague and the whole world that what was happening in Kosovo and Metohija was no struggle for the national liberation of Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, but crime and terror. I am free to propose this publicly and it seems to me that this should not only be a job for the foreign ministry, but for the entire government, all the ministries, to see the world's worst crimes committed against non-Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija from the same ones who have received international recognition. It is psychological and media very important for what lies ahead at the International Court of Justice in The Hague. I would also suggest to foreign ministry representatives, it seems to me that one revision of the network of diplomatic and consular representations should be made. I travel pretty often and find myself in a country where it's completely too high to still have an embassy or a consulate, or in a country where it's incredibly bad that we don't have them. I can see it's probably getting ready to open a representativeship in Dubai, but I'd be free to suggest that for Malta. There are more than three thousand of our people living in Malta. What does it mean that the Ambassador to Rome is covering Malta? It's demagogue, a little socialist. From Belgrade to Malta it takes you 15 minutes longer than Rome to Malta. These people can't end up where they live, in Malta. I think that in the interests of the citizens of this country who are staying there, and there are more than three thousand (they make up one per cent of the population of Malta or more than one per cent) it would be necessary to open one diplomatic or bar consular representation in the first phase. I also think that the state should find the means to bring some of our diplomatic representations, residences, because they are in some way the lighthouses of Serbia in the world, to some level, to make it seem decent, because some of these buildings are in a tragic state. You organize some meetings, meetings, and you need representatives from other countries, from other diplomatic and consular representations into something below the elemental civilization level. I would ask that this review of diplomatic and consular representations be carried out, and where it exists, there is one decent one, not to say high but decent, elemental level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19382	Since no one's answering for a word anymore... People's MPs, do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? (National MP Aleksandra Jankovic wants to take the floor. You have no basis for receiving a word because the authorised representative has rights, or the president of the parliamentary group, and no one from your parliamentary group has signed up to speak in the debate, according to the application for the word. The mandated representative of your parliamentary group is MP Mladen Grujic, and only he can speak, or the president of the parliamentary group, which, as far as I know, is Velimir Ilic. I'm sorry, the rules apply equally to everyone. Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I hereby conclude the original search and inform you that we will have a break by 15.00 hours, when we will continue to discuss the agenda points, following the Parliament's decision, in a joint principle search. At the same time, I am informing the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 85 paragraph 5, that we will be working after 1800 hours today, at a point that is on the agenda at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19383	Dear People's MPs, before we continue our work with a joint principle and uniform search on the drafts of the 20th to 57th agenda, I would like to inform you that I am, on the basis of Article 88(1) of the Law. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for this part of the meeting in addition to the relevant ministers to attend: Master Dusan Spasojević, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Milorad Perić, Head of the Ministry of Defence, Branislav Dimitrović, Assistant Minister of Culture, Tatjana Bojić-Jurić, Head of the Department of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Culture, Dušica Zivković, Assistant Minister of the Protection of Cultural Heritage at the Ministry of Culture, Dragan Radovanovic, Assistant Director of the Resources of the Ministry of Culture and Social Policy and Social Policy, Mr. Miro Čavalj, Assistant of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Dr. Mirko Čažan Žak, Assistant Director of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. We move to the 20th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Potvrđivanja in the Revidirana EUROPEAN SOCIAL RESOURCES (Common Principled and Single Search with the 21-57 Points) We move to a joint principled and unique search under the terms of the Act of the Republic of Serbia: - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Revised European Social Charter; - Proposal for a Law on Security and Health in Civil Engineering; - Proposal for an Act on the Cross-Corresion of the Act on the Cross-Corresion of the Cross-Corresion of the Charter of the Cross-Corrests of the Act of the Treaty on the Cross-Charresion of the Act; - Proposal of the Charter of the Act on the Treaty on the Cross-Cordination of the Treaty on the Treaty on the Law on the Cross-Charresion of the Lawst of the Law on the Lawst of the Treaty on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Europeans of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in principle for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: Parliament group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds, MP group SRS – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds, MP group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds, Parliamentary group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica – 25 minutes and 12 seconds, MP group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds, MEP group SPS-JS – 18 minutes, MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds, Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds, MP group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to apply for a word with the order of MPs, if they have not already done so. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to be represented on these agenda points: MP Boris Aleksic – SRS Parliament Group; MP Aleksandra Jankovic – Parliament Group of New Serbia; MP Elvira Kovac – Parliamentary Group of Minorities. In accordance with Article 152(3) and Article 142(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and uniform search on the drafts of the law according to paragraphs 20 - 57 of the agenda. Do they want the word of the promoter's representatives? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs MP Meho Omerovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19384	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has considered, within its competence, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Revised European Social Charter, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention of the International Labour Organisation No 167, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Option Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Respecting all the layers of our society, all the representatives of the government, through the conventions that we need to ratify, this time I will focus your attention on only one convention. I will take a few minutes of your attention and time to confirm the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I think these people deserve to be given special importance both in this way and in this place. I think it's important to point out that human rights are universal and indivisible, that they belong to every human being, and thus to persons with disabilities. So far, unfortunately, not only when it comes to our society, but also about other societies, in practice, the person had problems, because the representatives of people with disabilities were mostly second-class citizens, invisible citizens, or persons who treated others differently in this way than all of us. I'm going to quote Nehru who said that human rights are a mirror for the development of a certain society. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, no society, hence neither the state of Serbia, can claim a flattering assessment that it is democratic, if the entire layers of its population are disproved or not equal. You will agree that in practice so far and in everyday experience, we have witnessed that people with disabilities, unfortunately, were not equal citizens. In practice, they faced obstacles in achieving their human rights. So, just from a few of these shrewd findings, and starting from the fact that the position of persons with disabilities is equal, or should be equal, the position of all the citizens of planet Earth, the United Nations and regional organisations, individually all countries, have adopted acts with measures to enable people with disabilities to enjoy these rights. The preparation of the law on the confirmation of this Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has taken a serious approach, taking into account that the issue of the rights of these persons and the improvement of their position is a multi-sectoral issue. Since the ratification of this Convention implies its introduction into the country's internal system and the possibility of its direct application, even before national courts, although some countries have chosen to ratify the Convention shortly after their signature, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has decided to approach the internal rights harmonisation process thoroughly and to wait for ratification until the regulations that do not comply with one of the provisions of the Convention on the Agenda are complied with today. I would like to remind all respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and citizens of the Republic of Serbia that we have just in the domain of protection and full rights of persons with disabilities in the past period passed a whole series of laws that enable people with disabilities to become equal citizens of our society in one way or another. The UN General Assembly, I will remind only a few very important historical data, adopted this international convention in 2006. It opened for signatures and ratification on 30 March 2007, came into force on 3 May 2008. By the beginning of May of this year, the Convention was signed by 139 members, and 53 countries ratified it. Serbia and our MPs in Serbia's parliament remain to ratify this convention and the option protocol that follows it. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities does not create any confusion, some new rights for disabled persons; it only defines mechanisms for the equal enjoyment of all civil, political, economic, social, cultural and other rights by persons with disabilities. The purpose of the convention is above all, I quote, "to promote, protect and ensure the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms of persons with disabilities and to promote respect for their innate dignity". What makes the essence the core of the Convention is Article 4 which speaks of the general obligations of the States of signatories and of Article 5, which speaks of guaranteeing equality and non-discrimination of persons with disabilities. Signatory countries prohibit any discrimination based on disability and guarantee all persons with disabilities equal and effective legal protection against discrimination. Since accessibility is one of the essential preconditions for the full and equal participation of persons with disabilities in all areas of social life, this Convention is also detailed in this matter in Article 9. Article 12 is one of the most controversial members of this Convention, this should be pointed out openly and clearly, since it was necessary to find a balance between guaranteeing full business capacity for all persons with disabilities and realities and restrictions that occur and which occur in the exercise and capacity in cases of custody and legal representation. The principle of providing the necessary support for people with disabilities in showing their business ability is affirmed, which I suppose is what my distinguished colleague Gordana Rajkov will talk about today, because we also had some concerns at the meeting of the Committee on Labour and Combat Affairs because of the technical order, i.e. because of what seems wrong, translation into the Serbian language of some of the provisions in Article 12 of this Convention. The convention ultimately provides for a series of measures that people with disabilities should also ensure the smooth enjoyment of a series of civil and political rights. The Convention also provides for measures to enjoy economic, social and cultural rights of persons with disabilities without discrimination, above all, the right to education, the right to health care, the right to work, employment, related labour rights, the right to an adequate standard of living and social security, as well as participation in the cultural and sports life of the community. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities also addresses some issues that are more specific to persons with disabilities, of which I would point out: the existence of the necessary support services so that people with disabilities can live on their own in their local community, as well as the availability of all social services intended for the general public. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities also addresses the issues of personal mobility and mobility of persons with disabilities and their rehabilitation. Finally, the Convention also regulates measures for the collection of statistics relating to persons with disabilities, as well as international co-operation required to facilitate and speed up the application of this Convention, although the primary responsibility for the implementation of the Convention lies in each State signatories in particular, in this case in Serbia. The Convention shall regulate and establish bodies for the monitoring and implementation of the Convention at national level, as well as the Committee for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which shall constitute independent experts. After the ratification of the Convention in our assembly, I want to deeply believe that this Convention will not lead to the division of political representatives in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to opposition and MPs of the ruling parties, as it is a matter of protection of persons with disabilities and the adoption of the Convention which is on the agenda a question which is not a political issue. I think this is a question of all of us, a question of humanity, a question of morality and a question of our human relationship with people with disabilities. I am convinced that we will unanimously ratify this convention. I believe that both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry will periodically report on the rights of persons with disabilities and on how this Convention is being implemented. Finally, it should be pointed out that the regulations of the Republic of Serbia are largely already in line with the provisions of this Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I would like to remind myself of the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities, the Strategy for improving the position of persons with disabilities in Serbia from 2007 to 2015, recently adopted the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, as well as amendments to the Public Procurement Act. I would remind myself, that this will also end my presentation, that in preparation for several other laws that have to do with extension, i.e. deepening and achieving the rights of persons with disabilities, the law on the use of Serbian sign language, as well as the law on the movement of blind persons with the help of a guide dog. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19385	Thank you, Mr. Omerovic. Does the Financial Committee's rapporteur National MP, Branko Ljiljak, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Information Mrs Vesna Marjanović want a word? No, I don't. ) Did the MPs Srboljub Zivanovic and Marko Milenkovic, who, at the meeting of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, issue an opinion on the proposals of the law at paragraphs 26 and 32, want to speak? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Kovac Elvira has already signed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19386	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, it is very difficult to talk about 38 points of the agenda in just 20 minutes, so allow me to participate in the discussion first as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and, of course, as a member of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. My brief introduction assumes that I will focus most on the debate on the Revised European Social Charter, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol. At the very beginning, I would like to stress that I am pleased that several members of the government have appeared and I expect them to participate actively in this discussion. As we all know, the Revised European Social Charter is a very important document. It lays down social and economic rights relating to the most fundamental existential issues of citizens' daily lives, such as housing, movement of persons, work and employment relations, health and education and social protection. This Revised European Social Charter is one of the most fundamental documents of the Council of Europe, as I mentioned most, in the field of labour and social rights. It is, in fact, its most important document after the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. We've waited a long time for this social charter to be on the agenda, and for me personally and the Parliament Club of Minorities, as well as the MPs of SVM, to be happy. In several previous discussions, when we ratified several international agreements, I stressed that I think that this document is missing on the agenda and I am glad that we will now vote for it. I must stress that in the voting day, we will press number four, or vote in favour. Since I mentioned in the introduction what the charter actually refers to, I would like to base myself on a few things, primarily as a member of that committee, and on the other hand, as a young woman and as an SVM MP. What does this document tell us? We've heard from some that his confirmation is actually expensive and that maybe by now he hasn't found himself on the agenda. Let me in my very brief address, versus how many things you could say, I'm based on a few basic facts. This document requires us, and we know very well, that we need to improve the economic, legal and social protection of family life by means of various means, such as social and family benefits, tax relief, security of family accommodation, benefits for newly concluded marriages, etc. I must stress that we are aware that we are in the midst of a global economic crisis and, of course, there is never enough resources and that it is usually the social sphere in which the funds are being "drawn" or "reduced", but we sincerely hope that more money will be allocated for these needs. As far as labour rights are concerned, when we talked about the anti-discrimination bill, I stressed that we all know that workers should be entitled to equal opportunities and equal treatment in terms of employment, without discrimination on any basis. In the Charter itself, discrimination based on gender is stressed. It is necessary to prevent unacceptable or extremely negative, unfavourable, offensive behaviour against individual workers in the workplace. I guess everybody knows I'm talking about mobbing and all kinds of abuse. In order to ensure effective exercise of the right to equal employment opportunities for men and women with family obligations, it is necessary to develop and improve services, public or private, in the area of childcare, I believe that this is not adequately resolved in our country, or other forms of child protection. What's interesting and what, I think, we haven't talked about in a long time (or at least not loudly) in this high-legislative house is that we need to ensure that any parent in the postpartum period can receive parental leave while taking care of a child. To be honest, I think it's possible that we're still another patriarchal country, but there's a request, an interest in this issue. We're always talking about especially Vojvodina, and generally our country, suffering from so-called. White plagues. Members of the SVM believe it is necessary to encourage birth and to create as much encouraging conditions as possible in this regard. As we know, the Labour Act stipulates that an employed woman has the right to maternity leave and leave due to child care for a total of 365 days. I don't want to go into detailed discussions right now, but I just have to say that I don't think it's the best solution, so we can extend it for at least two years, because it's really pointless that mother has to go on maternity leave no later than 28 days before the appointment, at least 45 days, which would literally mean that the child hasn't turned a year old and she has to go back to work. Not to stress other problems. Of course, the city of Belgrade has solved it, but many citizens do not know that only 65% of the salary is still paid to pregnant women. I sincerely hope we find the means for young mothers to get 100% of their salaries while they're at home. The family care, the basic cell of society, must be one of the cornerstones of development policy, of our society's strategy and must be a necessary element of stimulating population policy. Economic protection is ensured by the exercise of the right to children's allowance, through the assistance of families with children, regardless of whether it is one child, two or three, not just a third child; as I have already mentioned, with appropriate tax benefits. At first, I stressed that I would most like to speak as a member of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and as an MP for European integration, and that is one of the great reasons why we will support this proposal for a bill on the validation of the Revised European Social Charter, and because its validation coincides with compliance with EU rules governing the area of social, labour and health protection. The report Monitoring the mission of the Council of Europe, which was written last year, indicated in large letters that this particular document, the Revised European Social Charter, due to the very great importance it has in the area of human rights, should be confirmed as a priority. Once again, I must point out that I am glad that we will, hopefully, do so within two to three weeks. I also said that I was a member of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, so I would like to rely most on the draft law confirming the rights of persons with disabilities in the follow-up of my discussion. As we have heard from the president of the Committee and as most probably the most disabled know, in practice, the exercise of the rights of these people in our country is still inadequate in the Republic of Serbia. I also have to praise some of the steps that have been taken, but I believe that in Serbia we are currently only at the beginning of turning our environment, our environment into acceptable for people with disabilities, since we have finally begun to remove obstacles that prevent these people from participating normally in everyday life. We from the SVM and the Minority Parliament Club agree that it is necessary to promote the development, availability and use of universally designed goods, services, equipment and new technologies, including various information and communication technologies, but, more importantly, modernly called training, i.e. training of experts and staff working with disabled people. In order to enable the independent lives of these people and the full participation of people with disabilities in all areas of life, it is necessary to provide them with access, equal to everyone else, built environment, transport, which is very badly solved in some places still, information and communication. So here I mean specifically and I stress that many buildings in our country are still inadequate, roads, means of transport and other facilities in a closed or open area, including many schools, housing, health facilities, and jobs. Just a few days ago, perhaps a week ago, we adopted a draft law on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons and we hope that its adequate application will at least solve some of these problems. The aim of confirming this Convention is to improve, protect and ensure the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms of persons with disabilities. The second general problem of our society to work on, and which is why I actually took part in the discussion, is that it is necessary to raise the public awareness of the whole society about people with disabilities. I'd like to call on an interesting discussion of Mrs. Snezana Plassic, who, when we talked about the law, seemed to have been a bill against discrimination, pointed out, explained the notion... I am now really appealing to everyone who participates today in the discussion that these are not people with special needs. They have the same needs as all of us and we just want to give them the same rights. So they're people with disabilities, not... Different terms are used, but let's agree on the only correct term. I've read in several places, and I've been really surprised by this information, that according to official estimates of people with disabilities make up 10% of the world's total population, or in the world today there are by some estimates, maybe more, but about 650 million people with some form of disability. To cut short, or try to sum up my speech. Among others, as I pointed out, there are 38 different conventions, agreements, etc. on the agenda next to this point we are talking about. Among other things, it is proposed to confirm the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Option Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The ratification of these documents that I have been talking about is, as we have heard on the committee today, an important act that people with disabilities in our country have been expecting for a very long time, for months, and it is a simple legal framework for full equality and active participation of persons with disabilities in social life in our country, as well as their effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms. So it's nothing too much, they're just looking to enjoy basic rights. As I mentioned, I would like to stress that unfortunately our country is still at the very beginning, but the Parliamentary Minority Club welcomes this period in which this right person with disabilities will finally and live in practice and they will finally be equal citizens of our country. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians is interested in rapid integration into the family of European countries, although indeed the most important tasks on this road are modernisation, economy and increased competitiveness, and as a consequence of the growth of living standards and the achievement of European values. In the meantime, we must never forget the others, we must never forget the disabled, nor the children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19387	Thank you. The word is, on behalf of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19388	Under these omnibus laws, as the people have been calling them for miles, the laws that are joined by antilogical principles can be found at the same point in terms of curative and schizophrenic treatment laws, which the chairman understands best, we have reached a famous point dedicated to international conventions, agreements, protocols and their validation. It's one package of, like, half a kilo of conventions. As far as New Serbia is concerned, I have already said this about the Law on Electronic Trade, we are a party that offers a European future to the state of Serbia and constantly reminds that our country has been like a cradle of many universal values, including European civilizations in general, and we will always welcome as a party acts that contribute to restoring our own dignity and being who we are – a civilized, educated and intelligent people, in a serious state. But as a representative of New Serbia, I am very concerned that there is no recorded thing in such international protocols, conventions and agreements that will happen in two days. So we didn't get the information as a Assembly, nor did the citizens of Serbia have the information from where to Serbia to get exactly Joseph Biden, who is being beaten by Joe Biden. It is difficult to figure out what the challenge lies in our analysts, commentators, editors, citizens and MPs to look for meaning and reach for this upcoming US Vice President Joe Biden's visit. As far as we're concerned, there's no uncertainty with Beyden. He is rightly considered one of the fathers of the so-called An independent Kosovo. As for the Serbs themselves, the situation is more than clear and does not allow any doubt. At that time, only as a senator, Joseph Biden said during the Serbian bombing in 1999 that "the Serbian people are a bunch of illiterate, degenerated children, butchers and sex offenders, and that all Serbs should be placed in the concentration of a Nazi type". The testimonies say that Adolf Hitler, on March 27th 1941, although angry, was not so eloquent and clear when he spoke of the Serb people. I don't know if I need any analysis and comment. So we get a quick omnibus of the law to quickly confirm various international conventions, agreements and protocols that are important, but, suddenly, we are faced with the arrival of Joe Biden in Belgrade, when the whole of Serbia will stop, the economy, in the midst of the economic crisis. To this extent, the police will provide for this man (who, I don't know what, probably by these words, has entrusted the current authority), so that the fly will not be able to fly away, and the question is whether there will be a meeting of this assembly, which is something that I am very interested in. In any case, coming to Belgrade, Joe feeds his vanity by enjoying his role as a madly brave hero who comes between butchers, or perhaps seeing Serbia as a conclogor who is scheduled to travel to the US capital of Kosovo and the Balkans -- Bondsteel. It is very interesting that Serbia will really look like a concentration on Wednesday, as Serbian citizens will not, or will not, be allowed to move around the houses, to ensure safe, hospitality for Mr. Joe, and, of course, in Pristina will be quite welcome as it should be. Of course, Biden doesn't come without a connection. He's coming to recruit some here, the government, and above all, the president of the state, why don't they keep their word. Namely, the main capo of this territory, which some still call state territory, Cameron Manter reported to him that the internally elected and sectrossed Serbian directors do not keep their word or hesitate to keep their promises. Now goes the quote: "In northern Kosovo irresponsible leaders on the Serbian side produce violence and pose a threat to the own and security of others." Serbs pose a threat to the security of others -- amazing but true -- the US ambassador to Belgrade, the former Cameron Manter, said and urged the Serbian government "to contain them". Serbia's government to restrain its own people. He says, so I'm talking about people living in Mitrovica, "your government knows very well who they are, i.e. people who cause violence, who are a threat to the safety and security of others," Manter says. The US ambassador has said he takes very seriously what the president and minister of foreign affairs of Serbia have committed and that they must keep their word. "I believe that the Serbian government's action to curb irresponsible local leaders is of paramount importance and we call on them to do so," Manter said and reiterated by who knows which time the US administration does not support the division of Kosovo and thinks it would be a mistake, but believes Kosovo should remain a comprehensive independent state. Beiden's visit could only be a good opportunity for us to find out who gave the word to, what he promised to whom, so that we of our mentioned directors can hear who they promised, when Serbia has not already, and what Serb heads have promised? Who will carry the head of Mark Jaksic and Milan Ivanovic? Are they going to go to Bondsteel alone or are they going to be sent all the way to Washington, just like it used to be to Stambol? Serbia has already said Manter, and Biden, with a proven and keen sense of nuance, will repeat -- there will be no entry into the European Union unless Serbia enters NATO previously. "This membership," Manter reveals, "is not only a member of a military organisation, but rather a membership in an organisation that protects democracy, human rights, so many of the tasks you take on NATO membership make joining the European Union easier." It's the same NATO who gave us the "merciful angel" in time. It is the same NATO that killed Milica Rakic, who is becoming a summary name for all children killed or seriously injured in NATO action, which "represents democracy and human rights". Serbian authorities can bend and crawl as much as they want, they can adopt these laws in parliament according to European standards, from Bodrum, from the basement, anyway; they can ban all our opposition parties and NGOs, especially these Serbian NGOs that are not at their will, but their admission into the EU will not decide anything other than NATO's geostrategic interest in the game of surrounding Russia, that and nothing more. Since it is becoming increasingly clear that it cannot be clearer, it was clear to those who honestly and logically think it was before it was said, then it is even easier to answer the question why anyone who visits Serbia these days is scrambling at it and shaking out. First, it was the famous UN tribunal prosecutor Serge Brammertz, who repeatedly made an angry comment over Serbian politicians commenting on the tribunal's rulings. He gave the order not to speak of Serbian verdicts and hear nothing. War crimes prosecutor Vladimir Vukcevic claims Brammertz is the best part of The Hague. What are the other parts when Brammertz is the best part of The Hague? Of Serbian officials, only Mr. Rasim Ljajic could bear it: "When we comment on the verdicts, it is found in the Security Council report. We have dignity. This is not a banana republic, so that anyone from the international community tells us what we can say, especially since the statements have been measured," you said and that is nice. Then, over a decade-long bid to put Serbia on the white Schengen list and recent promises by Serbian officials that this is a done deal, European Commission representative Pierre Mirel has resolutely waxed the Serbs: "All speculation about what countries will enter the white Schengen list is premature because this process has not yet been brought to an end. More information needs to be collected to draw up a well-founded report before discussions on these issues continue. "Joe Biden will simply tell today's officials in Serbia that he has had enough of their promises and that he will move from words to deeds. The words of today's Serbian authorities, used to orders from abroad, are well understood and heard clearly when they do not already hear the voice of the Serbian people. Today's Serbian authorities are not only no longer hearing the voice of their people, but also refusing to face a picture of a bloody person beaten to death by 70-year-old Stojan Stankovic from Kosovo. Stojan, a massacred man whose picture came out on the front page in the last issue of "The Seal", was beaten by the hands of Eulex and the police so-called. independent Kosovo states, and all in respect of the famous six points that Serbian authorities are protecting Serbs in Kosovo. That injured Serb face from Kosovo is the true face of sacrifice and struggle for the survival of our people in Kosovo. It's also the face of Serbian shame. But more than that, it is a person who exposes today's Serbian policy, Euro-Atlantic policy, non-critical and serverant Europeanisation, unilateral application of the SAA, inclusion in NATO, European standards, white Schengen lists (the clinic is called the "white Shanghai List"), Eulexa, six points, reforms, future good neighbourly relations and a better life for all Serbian citizens. What I've been saying so far, I haven't thought of myself, this is actually the introduction to "The Seal," and it was written by a former colleague of our chairman, Mr. Milorad Vucelic. It's an extraordinary text. What I'm very interested in would be very good at least for a moment if we put ourselves in a position of someone who, for example, experienced a contusion during NATO bombing and after ten years simply woke up and looked at what his home looked like. What could he see? In addition to everything else, at least two events, very interesting: Kosovo admitted to the IMF, and US Vice President Biden, formerly known for many offensive statements at the expense of Serbs and pro-Albanian engagement, comes for a working and friendly visit to Belgrade! My question is – what convention is it that Joe Biden and his likes come to Serbia, and what kind of working visit can it be? What does he bring to Serbia? We know what he took and what he could carry. What kind of friendly visit is this? As it was, a friend with a bunch of illiterate, degenerated kids, butchers and sex offenders. Will they visit the Milice Rakic family? Will he perhaps visit Mr Bulatovic who, as you know, lost his legs saving others? I doubt it. It's probably not protocol. In any case, the news is -- Kosovo was admitted to the IMF, and Biden is coming to work. Compared to the two news that, especially when next to each other, practically need no comment, it was not sufficiently noted that Ambassador Cameron Manter was leaving Serbia before the mandate expired. After he awarded another NUNS award for investigative journalism and after welcoming and escorting Vice President Biden, the ambassador will give a few more farewell interviews, play the last jazz and fly to Baghdad for a new duty. From Belgrade to Baghdad? What likeness and symbolism! The reason for Manter's departure remains a certain dilemma, perhaps of greater importance to our future destiny than to his further career. Is he leaving early due to the assessment that the task has been done here, given that Belgrade has submitted relatively well to Kosovo's declaration of independence, has accepted the Eulex mission and finally won the pro-Western democratic government? Does it mean that Serbia and the Balkans will not be so focused on US foreign policy in the coming period, or are they withdrawn because of the failure to prevent Russia from entering the Serbian energy sector and the fact that even this current, so-called personal, Serbian government is still not zealous enough for a course of Euro-Atlantic integration? Not to mention that a recent Iranian foreign minister was walking around Belgrade, almost at Manter's nose, and Serbian officials are increasingly choosing Latin American and African destinations for their goal instead of those Brussels-Washington destinations. What's also very important is, in fact, the question raised by Serbian NGOs and which, unfortunately, because of the media blockade, you can't hear anywhere but in this assembly. So, a whole block and a network of Serbian NGOs: "The Dvers", Association of Students of the Law Faculty "Nomokanon", Association of Citizens "Ours", Orthodox Brotherhood of the Holy Archduke and First Class Stefan, Association of Citizens "Gustoljulje" from Vrbasa, Serbian People's Movement "The choice is ours" from Banja Luka, Serbian Cultural Centre "St. Sava", Serbian People's Movement of Northern Kosovo and Metohija, "St. Apostols Petar and Pavle" Bujanovac, Association of Citizens "The Truth", Association of Citizens "Presentation" from Somboro, Brans of the Country 1998-1999 from Čačka, Otac Justin Popović from Vranja, Association of Citizens "The Vranja, Association of Citizens of the Citizens of the "Jug Bogdan" from Prokuplje, Serbian National Movement 1389. Belgrade sent a statement, which did not reach the citizens, which is why I will read it here. "Joseph Biden, one of the infamous US officials from Bill Clinton's administration, who at the time of NATO's aggression on our country made the most shameful statements and fueled anti-Serbian hysteria in Western media. As a man who has criminally treated our people, as a man who is among those responsible for war crimes that NATO has committed against Serbs, Biden is not welcome in Serbia. We ask our state authorities and officials to keep the minimum of national dignity and to deny this type of person welcome to Serbia. For all Serbian patriots, for all well-intentioned citizens of Serbia, Joseph Biden is a persona non grata. The Serbian Parliament of Dveri, continuing a campaign against Serbia's entry into the NATO Pact, is launching an invitation to cancel its welcome to Joseph Biden, U.S. Vice President, whom our authorities allow to come to Serbia the day after tomorrow. Joseph Biden is one of the infamous U.S. officials who made the most shameful statements for our country and fueled the hysteria that was unremembered. Since we have no illusions, of course, that our officials will have the human and civil courage to make this only dignified move against Biden, the initiative is to at least try the level of civil disobedience and some civil events to show on the eve of this visit that Joseph Biden is not welcome. The more reason to fight Biden's arrival in Serbia is the fact that his mission is a direct pressure for Serbia's entry into NATO, at a time when we are painfully reminded of the ten-year aggression in which NATO killed civilians. "I wonder if Biden, for example, will visit the RTS building as part of a visit, will he go to visit that monument dedicated to people who have been killed as collateral damage? Is she going to go see, I said already, the parents of Milice Rakic, and not just hers? Will he come and bow down to all of us and ask forgiveness for what was done within his "merciful angel"? Instead, the second objective of Biden's arrival is to continue pressure to recognise the so-called state of Serbia. An independent state of Kosovo, again more than enough reason to deny US vice president hospitality in Serbia as the enemy of our people and the state. We have an institution of traditional Serbian hospitality, but to make hospitality, to quote again, to the man who told us that we are a people of butchers, degenerics, child-killers, I'm not sure it belongs to a Christian, but to a psychopathological sacrifice. So, Serbian NGOs are calling on all social organisations and political parties, institutions and public figures to join this request and to make it very clear that Joseph Biden in Serbia is not welcome. I had the duty to read this statement because the very announcement of Joseph Bideen's visit to Serbia caused a great public animosity because in the newspaper of the "Kurira" type, data such as "Pres" was published that it would look like security on Wednesday during Joseph Biden's visit, how many police officers would be involved; about the situation, as for the security level, it would be like the funeral of Tito's people who, for example, protested here for days, and these are workers of the "Belgrade departments" (who, of course, went bankrupt), was removed from the street and the mayor even publicly called the police to intervene... (President: Mrs Jankovic, it has been 20 minutes, please bring the end. I have 11 minutes left of the parliamentary group. So, the mayor, who is popularly called Gilas, has called on police not to let a handful of (this is known from an earlier life) citizens harass the rest and that the gathering must be off the street, because it needs to be ensured that traffic is passing, it has to be done, Serbia must not stop for a moment. And now, because of Mr. Joseph Biden's presence in our country, everything will stop on Wednesday, and long before Wednesday. My question, asked by our citizens who are not the voters of New Serbia alone, is how much does it cost, how much do we, like Serbia, lose in the midst of this global economic crisis by the arrival of Joseph Biden? Who will make up for all the things in Serbia for the citizens of Serbia? Where'd that budget money come from? It's not for students, it's not for pensioners, but it's for the security of Joseph Biden. Does this mean that workers, instead of strike hunger, cut off their fingers, simply have to spit out their own state and say that we are a genocide people of butchers, and then eventually get some money from the budget? Who are you, gentlemen, representing? Who are you? People were also asking a question -- okay, the U.S. Vice President is coming, maybe he survived some kind of an ambulatory lobotomy, so he changed his attitude towards Serbia, maybe even apologized, but the real question is what does it bring us? So the question is, whose call, what does it bring, how much is it going to cost? It is a question to which Serbian citizens you must answer, regardless of whose side you are on. We know that you have an obligation to keep your word against all those Western tasters, the word you gave long before this campaign. We have no such obligation, Serbia has no alternative for us and therefore we speak on behalf of the Serbian people and the serious Serbian state. I really demand, not only on behalf of the New Serbia MPs, but all citizens who have come to us, to answer this question, to answer me which of these international conventions, declarations, the agreement is scheduled for people like Joseph Biden to come and they are part of a diplomatic world with which we will make work and friendly visits. May God help us if they come.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19389	Thank you. The word is by Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, MP group Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19390	First of all, I want to protest this way of discussing 38 agreements, although they are irrelevant, that we do not discuss them. Why are we adopting them in the first place? By listening to you, Madam President, I've been following the time, it took you 12 minutes just to list those agreements we're going to talk about. I have a suggestion. I don't know if you, Madam President, and your professional services know that we 250 MPs don't all live in Belgrade, and we're not all on permanent work in Belgrade so we can use the materials the way you deliver them to us. I'm using the debate on this one of the 38 agenda points to ask you to use mail services when you schedule a session in a regular period, return to good customs, and when that time allows you to deliver the materials by mail, email. Many of us know and want to be used by these means of communication and, believe me, I'm not the only MP, not enough in an envelope, which doesn't mention a day in which the materials are delivered, on a wheelchair taken to a Parliament club. I repeat, we are not all MEPs from Belgrade, and please step out of "the circle of two" when you think about parliament and the constructive work of MPs. In what conditions are we discussing these laws at a time when you are looking to disenfranchise the overall legislative activity? These laws, ratifications, are discussed in a new way, according to the Rules of Procedure, which you have made worse and in a way that we can't even cope with the additional time and give them the necessary arguments; we can't and rarely submit amendments, and yet the debate on amendments is joined, and 38 points will last as long as for one single bill. Does this mean that if we can't change the way we intervene on these agreements we shouldn't even meet the citizens what these ratifications say? Believe me, they're not irrelevant, and they're neither casual nor random. Of the 38 I have chosen to speak only of one, which is 24 April, as has been so many times so far, brought to a Parliament club as if it were none of our business. The agreement under which we have a new debt of 34,900,000 euros with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is one of those that will arrange (unfortunately, I don't trust the best) our lives literally. The agreement speaks more about the country's economic policy than the budget memorandum and many laws adopted in this house. I'll just tell you that they continue the way you start privatization of the real and financial sector, radically designed, even worse implemented, whose devastating results we all enjoy. With this kind of ratification from the World Bank trust fund in 2001, where six million dollars of donation has been directed to us, drawn up the development of privatisation and reform of the system, we've got a society where one man can take away everything, a society where people are now ready for anything. I don't want to mention specific cases, but when you take away someone's factory, pension, and right to bread, then you can't say that this ratification was supposed to be in a group of 38. In light of this law, it says: "The achievement of the planned objectives will also be achieved through the creation and application of the privatisation strategy of the remaining financial institutions, which are mostly owned by the borrower (state), in order to reduce the participation of the borrower (state) in the financial sector from the current 17.29 to 10% in 2010, when it comes to banks, and the reduction of participation from the current 34% to 30% in 2010, when it comes to insurance companies. "There are no MPs in this hall, and I'm sure neither the man outside this hall, who will not admit that privatisation of both the real and the financial sectors had a built-in feller that brought us here as a society and a state. Please do not hear these words as supple banking and legal terms, but under these 34% insurance companies that need to be reduced to 30 please see other insurance companies, Danube and the rest of the domestic insurance company "Sucho", several small banks under these 17% and one major remaining state with participation, Commercial Bank and Agrobank. Today when everyone admits that the foreign capital that came here in the financial sector did not bring competition that resulted in lower rates, on the contrary, and by the way, there is no social component because it doesn't care about our workers, it doesn't care about the jobs of people who don't want to ride jeeps and fly to Hawaii, they don't even want their children to sit in cafes all day long, but to go to schools, to colleges, to have normal role models... But these conditions and those patterns are taken away by restructuring the system. As much as it's packed into someone else's money, in a cheap loan, for good purposes, it obviously has a bad result. Please, from these percentages and from these intentions, we're not trying to be different from everyone again. It is 34,900,000 euros in new commitments, which will rest for eight years, while this power is the former, while its sins are forgotten; when someone next, someone new, someone more responsible comes to exercise power, they will have to repay these 35m euros in credit, for which I ask the citizens to make the site of the Assembly, which is very well arranged and there is this law, open and check the words that I will say, not because I am not trusted, but because they act amazingly. Do you know that in this law, this hard, there is no intention of where these 34,900,000 go. The activities we have received are mentioned, the goals that I have read to you, to reduce the state's participation in the banking and financial sectors, but not to say what measures will be achieved. Only the term of illicit activities and activities is defined. Do you know what's under them? Not to buy or trade alcohol, tobacco, pearls, jewels, toxic substances, and a nuclear bomb. That's what it says in the material. What are the activities we're going to implement? That's not what it says here. All it says is that out of 35m euros, compensation for access to the contract, i.e. initial costs of 87,250 euros, will be denied, and that's all it says. They're writing some more data. For example, he says, "This law will implement fiscal adjustment measures, tax obligations will be adjusted, thus increasing macroeconomic stability and", listen to this, "the level of trust of potential investors from the country and abroad". Will arresting the president of the municipality who cheats on their country and citizens, and thus investors, be the measure of attracting foreign investors to enter and invest here? It states under point 3 that the conditions for investment in the territory of the borrower, i.e. our country, will be improved through the creation of an appropriate legal framework and the promotion of measures to increase competition on the market for the borrower. Do you, under this appropriate legal framework, mean laws and bodies dealing with the fight against corruption, constantly passing new laws and changing the form of bodies dealing with this matter, but only at the level of theory, legislative activities and expanding and changing the institutions involved? Or it will be like what we meet daily, general places -- we bring an export strategy that we don't adhere to; we pass laws that we count as unrepentant grain, so we can boast, laws that don't apply at all. This law that you have given us here to keep quiet, not to speak, giving us little time to do so, could be translated into one single sentence, which is, just give us the money. That's what you're asking from the international community, and we're asking for the right to spend all of us. I don't know who from the Ministry of Finance, I really don't know who to talk to personally, and I feel the need, so I look at you, President, as the most responsible among us, and you say: we have managed to avoid one general responsibility from the general conditions for the granting of these loans, to submit reports on the spending of these couples. No, you're wrong. That's what you wrote in your explanation, and on one of the first pages of the contract, it says that two years after the last war, and that's March 2010, you have to keep every invoice and every document that's going to be invested, I don't know what, because it doesn't say here. It says here there are goals, but there's no purpose. I will remind those who would like to forget that in this same building in 2001, in September of the month, in the same hurry, a contract was adopted with the World Bank's Trust Fund, under which we have a Privatisation Agency that controls itself, which only breaks up contracts when people go out on the street, which does not pay their Ministry of Finance and their country revenue from privatisation, which compensates for success in the privatisation process (which is 5%) gives us no idea of who, who hires legal and financial advisers in their choice. As a result of such agreements with the Trust Fund, or the 2001 agreement, the structure of the economy in which you, Mr Ljajic, have the most difficult part of the job and the man I respect and the way you are, is to face despair in the faces of people who suffer the consequences of these papers through which you are looking to run through. Unfortunately, trouble opens our eyes sooner or later, and I really don't understand if anyone who signed this paper, who promises to take care of the state of public debt, had a chance or wanted to get to know the documents that are written here? On the 23rd page of this document, which is a contribution and which is supposed to mean the implementation of this Agreement, there is again no purpose for what money is to be invested, but it is said that you should not invest money in the following illegal cost, which refers to: corruption, fraud, secret agreements and forced actions for which the bank (the one giving the money) finds that there were authorised representatives of the borrower (this country) or other borrowers and did not take timely and appropriate measures acceptable to the bank to warn such actions. I really admire your bold insolence to accept such a condition. What's with the money in the safes, no origin? Since this law prohibits the money derived from it being invested for purposes already financed by some foreign or domestic financial institution, I ask on behalf of the citizens of Serbia – is the money from the budget irregularly, through various funds and transactions being poured into such safes, funds and other black holes, and from citizens' pockets through the budget? Then you have the courage to agree to a condition like this that sooner or later the money giver (the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development) will come to check, even if it can see, even though in one tranche the loan is paid, how this money is used. Either it'll be, in a month or a year, the subject of newspaper affairs and some insiders of any kind, an insider from the government or an insider on one of the national televisions. I want to warn the citizens that this law says that everything you get from this loan has to be shown in the budget that we adopt here. Please state that in the budget and that the State Auditing Institution submits information to this Assembly and to the MPs on this matter. In the end, I'm going back to what's at the beginning. Instead of where money goes, it says here – software activities, and translated into Serbian – which is why you deserve this loan. According to point 1), the borrower adopted principles that are acceptable to the bank and concerning company registration, concerning the issuance of the FIB and the pension and social identification number of the Agency for Business Registers. I wouldn't know what this means, let's just say he needs to fill in one step. Under point 2) – the borrower adopted a strategy acceptable to the bank and will act as a "gillotine" regulation. Dear gentlemen, who has passed these laws that you now foresee? Do not rub our eyes by the fact that there are 7,000 laws that are listed, but that do not live in legal traffic and produce legal consequences for our behavior. In this section of the rules, all illegal subsidies should be found which a minister, on behalf of the Government, is engaged in banking activity, instead of the banking system. Under point 3) says – the borrower offered to sell... The most interesting question, for which we have sought a special thematic session in this congregation in our time. The borrower offered to sell or issued an invitation to find a strategic partner who would take over the basic activities and property of its two largest recipients of state subsidies. Whoever takes the most subsidies, is that the railroad... (President: will you maybe... Time from the MPs' club continues. Is that the railroad, is that the EPS? I really can't understand that companies, whatever, the smallest and biggest, whose names you don't want to name, are called "the two biggest recipients of state subsidies", and you offered them for sale. In what economic policy, where did you agree, where you won, consent and law, make those promises? That was the question -- under what conditions is it negotiated with the International Monetary Fund to allegedly keep foreign reserves? Please, page 18, point 3, so we don't have to warn you. According to point 4), the borrower adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Privatisation Act on 26 December 2007. The lender expects you to end it by 31 December 2008. The deadline's over. Whether this will be one of the reasons for increasing interest which is one of the conditions for which I am stressing here, says – is defined, but can be changed. Everything that doesn't say here, and it's as binding as what we're ratifying here, you'll get a recommendation from the lender that you'll have to fulfill. I really don't see that at point 5 here, someone can boast of the results, and at point 5, I don't want to irritate citizens, lenders, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, boasting of the successes in privatisation, which we obviously have different experiences, i.e. We put up with them. Since you are ready today to take responsibility for this ratification, each of you from the Government individually, each and every one of you on behalf of your own party and the city in which you live, your families and friends who suffer the consequences of such privatisation, please don't refuse responsibility tomorrow when citizens call you, because I don't think the ban on gatherings on the street will be enough. The government can't act like a citizen who meets an unconscious man on the street and says, "I'm sorry, I can't help you, I'm not a doctor. The state bears the responsibility of giving us this act and cannot wash any man's hands, and the government at least, out of the consequences of such conditions in which we only define what we give, who gets, and who comes back, we'll all ask ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19391	Thank you. The word is by MP Milos Aligrudic, on behalf of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19392	Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ministers, today is ahead of us in a debate of 38 points of the agenda, 38 different conventions, international agreements that Serbia needs to ratify and which cover several areas of social life. At the beginning of today's debate, we heard Mr Meh Omerovic, who was a reporter in front of his board. He did a little bit of time to discuss it, but it doesn't hurt because the content of what he was talking about was interesting, because what he said as the Committee's position on the subject is a very important thing, because it's a bill on the confirmation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which we'll all agree is that the topic that can't be skipped. We just heard Mrs. Jorgenko Tabakovic talking about another point of daily work that is connected to a single principled search, which has such content that the debate can also not be skipped. You called for today's session of all those people you read that were invited in front of the promoter and, believe me, it's my impression, and it's a matter of mathematics, if everyone was invited to come, they couldn't sit in these benches for the ministers and the government, but they'd have to "go over" and go sit in the parliamentary benches, because there wouldn't be room. Today I intended to speak in a unique principled search on all these points, which is: the draft law on the validation of the Revised European Social Charter, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Strasbourg Agreement on the International Classification of Patents of 24 March 1971, with amendments of 28 September 1979, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention of the International Labour Organisation No 167 on Safety and Health in Construction, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention of the International Labour Organisation No 187 on the Promotional Framework for Safety and Health at Work, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), on Privileges and Immunities of the OPCW, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on Cross-border Television. There's a resolution minister, ready, probably, to help us sort things out; when, I have no idea. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement establishing an international classification of the figurative elements of the stamps made in Vienna on 12 June 1973, with amendments from 1 October 1985. Then, the bill to confirm an agreement on military co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of Austria, which is the federal defence minister, a bill confirming the agreement between the government of Serbia-Montenegro and the US government on co-operation in the area of preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and improving defence and military relations. A very interesting part of the agenda, you should say something about it. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States on the protection of status and access and use of military infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia. Very interesting, but there's something to say about it today. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation in the area of defence between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria. There was talk in public about it, and I guess there's something to say about it in parliament as well. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Variety of Cultural Expressions, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Geneva Act of the Hague Agreement on International Registration of Industrial Design adopted at the Diplomatic Conference on 2 July 1999, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Amending Document of the Statute of the International Labour Organisation of 1997, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Cooperation in the Area of Culture between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage – It is a Revised Convention. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Greece amending the Treaty between the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Greece on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes. A very important protocol, I believe, will be denied the National Assembly for an explanation, a proposal for comments and a debate on this protocol. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes – the same thing, it is another country. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the Protection of Warships, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Trade Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on supply and mutual services between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence of the United States. I guess that's irrelevant, huh? Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria – who cares, is that right, ladies and gentlemen of the government? The bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Israel on trade and economic co-operation – that's what we're going to skip, right? Proposal for a law on the validation of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the regulation of obligations of the former Soviet Union under accounts relating to trade between the former Soviet Union and the former SFRY, Proposal for a law on the validation of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank – Loan for Municipal and Regional Infrastructure. I'm just wondering, when will you find the time, during this debate in principle and in particular, in particular, it's not really here to discuss this issue. You don't think anyone's interested in that? I'm sure you do. Proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for Project Clinical Centres/B. It doesn't matter, does it? Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities – we have already talked about it, thank God. A lot has been said and there's something else to be said, but that was the best example of what I'm talking about. What did you do with today's agenda? Proposal for a law confirming the option protocol with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which is related matter. A bill confirming the agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the succession of bilateral agreements between the SFRY and the People's Republic of China concluded between 1955 and 27 April 1992. This was quite a wait, today is on the agenda and probably doesn't deserve a single word of comment, because it's your idea. Proposal for a law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the Seventh Framework Programme of the European Community for research, technological development and demonstration activities. Is that what you're interested in? Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on Cross-border Effects of Industrial Accidents, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Stockholm Convention on Long-term Organic Contaminant Substances. You read all of this, President, when you announced a joint principled search, you mumbled yourself in the chin and hurried to get time. Every title of these conventions and international agreements is important and must be heard clearly, not to mention that everyone deserves to be discussed. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the opening of the Petacinci-bank border crossing, which you have not read. You rushed, so you didn't give the whole agenda title. Look at the stenogram, because I listened very carefully. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the opening of the Novo Korito-Salash border crossing, the Proposal for a Law to Confirm the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the renewal, marking and maintenance of the border line and border markings at the common state border. Then, the draft law on the withdrawal of the reserve provided for in the Protocol prohibiting use in the war of suffocating, toxic and similar gases and bacteriological means. Why don't you explain a little bit what this is about? What is it, what is the motivation of this country when it comes to the withdrawal of the reserve, what does the reserve mean, what are the consequences of that and what environment, in an international sense, puts our country? Is that a problem? Proposal for a law on the validation of acts of the World Postal Federation – will anyone explain to us, or to the public, what is this and why it is important to sign this agreement, ratify it? Shall we say a word about it? Probably, you should, but when? When, Madam President? Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement (Programme for the development of the private and financial sector) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It's extremely important. It is 38 agenda points proposed by the ruling majority to merge into a single search. I am as an authorised representative, since I am the head of the DSS Parliamentary Group, spent 11 minutes reading the headlines of these agenda points, and I still have about eight or nine minutes left to speak as an authorised representative of the group on these protocols and conventions. In order to do so successfully, I would have to resort to one of the tactics that other MPs have resorted to, to choose what is most important to me from these 38 that you have suggested, and then to talk about it, and what I don't get, and I'm not going to get 80%, I guess that doesn't matter. This is your attitude toward the work of the National Assembly. This is your relationship, the ruling majority, according to the dignity of this home. And when you dare to attack anyone from the opposition to destroy the dignity of this home because it defends the basic democratic principles and principles on which this home should work and operate, and one of the basic principles is the debate, the debate in this home, to discuss what you have suggested, then you better bite your tongue before you say anything like that. When you look at your behavior, what you look like in the O.R., how you treat the work and rules of the game you set yourself in this home, then it would be good to think carefully before you think about it and dare by simply revote 38 points, from at least seven or eight areas of social life, into one single debate. The Democratic Party of Serbia, as a party to the ruling coalition in two calls, has brought together many agenda points and has proposed a merger to streamline the debate. Sometimes we've been able to connect something that might not be right. Why wouldn't I admit it? People are able to look at archives and archives, they're able to look at everything we've done and it's not worth not telling the truth. But it never occurred to us to put 38 agenda points together in one debate. To discuss these conventions with me today, to discuss substance and matter, this is impossible to do. Why did you invite all these people? What do you expect from them, what do they expect from us? What are we gonna do about cross-border television? What are we going to do about the resolution minister who came here? Who is it that will conduct a good conversation or a serious search with the Registrar on this matter, to discuss the importance of an agreement to be signed? How do we do that without talking about people with disabilities, how do we not talk about an agreement that we sign, which is of military importance, with the United States? What do you want from us, what do you want us to do? Why don't you give us a list and give us some suggestions and tell us-- excuse me, we'd love for you to not talk about 25 of these 38 points, so we can all find it easier? Why didn't you say that in public? This is not how a serious debate can be conducted. The way you've combined some other points in this agenda comes down to the same. Is it keeping Parliament's dignity, is it keeping the dignity and these ministers we've chosen and the way you've invited them here, no matter what I think of the government? What does this look like? People are gonna sit there, they're pro-forms. The smart ones didn't even come because they know there's no way to make any dialogue between the assembly and representatives of the ruling coalition representing the government of the Republic of Serbia in this place. What kind of dialogue, what, about 38 conventions on the agenda, what are we going to talk about for 20 seconds? Representatives of the Democratic Party of Serbia who will take part in the debate today will be defined for a few points of the agenda, simply because we have to, because we can't take what I just said as a reason not to say anything. I thought, as I speak on behalf of the DSS Group, that I should draw public attention to what is going on here, not to bring down the dignity of this house, as you like to speak on your part, but to let the people see what your view of this House's dignity looks like, what your vision of the functioning of parliament looks like. In addition to my recognition that the Democratic Party of Serbia, when participating in the ruling coalitions in Serbia in the previous two mandates, has combined agenda points to gain time and to work more rationally, we have never had such monsters in the merger and at least I'm happy about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19393	The assembly decided on the merger of the points, not the speaker of the assembly. The word has the People's MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19394	Dear citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like to thank Mr Omerovic, who was the only one in front of the ruling coalition to present very important information concerning the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It's an important topic that we'd have to dedicate to a special agenda. Instead, it is inserted among these 37 draft laws. I don't think that's appropriate. However, I would also like to point out that the serious problem relating to the rights of disabled persons is certainly the application of legal regulations. You'll agree that we still have legal regulations today that protect the rights of disabled persons, but unfortunately, the good part they don't apply. They are not applied, among other things, to the National Assembly, which is indeed a disgrace to this building and to this institution. I'll give you an example that individuals have parked their vehicles in places that are clearly marked for people with disabilities. It's happened more than once. Also, if you cross the city, you'll be able to see that a lot of angry cars are parked in places marked for people with disabilities, i.e. which are reserved for disabled people. When representatives of the MUP, therefore ordinary police officers who are not guilty of anything, ask why they don't remove those vehicles when it comes to public officials, they tell reporters that they can't do anything. I believe that, first of all, the problem with the application of the rules is. We will return to this important topic and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities later. So, before us is the agenda point with 38 draft laws. With this work, the regime probably wants to highlight its candidacy for the Ginis Book of Records and turn serious state affairs into five-pare stories, as it is impossible to explain, present or criticise so many draft laws for such a short period of time available to MPs under the new Rules of Procedure. We also saw that none of the government's representatives came out and said a single word about these proposals, even though they could do so. At this point in the agenda, the Republic government has mixed up areas and topics that do not have any touch points. This is how they found mixed patents and stamps with workers' rights and a very important social charter, at a time when more and more workers are on the street, when even women who return from maternity leave for child care are fired, especially in the Delta Holding and companies owned by Miroslav Miskovic. Then you mixed the archaeological heritage with the avoidance of double taxation, industrial design with privileges and immunities of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the Statute of the International Organisation for the Protection of War Graves, trade agreements with the rights of persons with disabilities, the succession of bilateral agreements with EU viewing activities, organic polluting substances with the opening of border crossings, acts of the World Postal Union with the ban on the use of toxic gases in the war. So we can all conclude that there's no logic in conjecturing this point of the agenda in this way. The question arises why did the Republic Government take such an illogical and inappropriate move that demeans the citizens of Serbia and the National Assembly? In our people there is a long-known proverb to which the tree is best and most successful to hide in the forest. That is why we have to ask the question of what is this regime of Boris Tadic hiding from Serbian citizens and why? If we carefully look at these drafts of the law, we will notice that there are solutions that include further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia and all its citizens from international financial institutions and organisations, as well as those devastating solutions that further restrict the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. The draft law confirming a financial agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank (Own for Municipal and Regional Infrastructure) places citizens in charge of new 50m euros. The draft law confirming a financial contract between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for the Project Clinical Centres/B citizens are in charge of the new 70m euros. It is certainly a shame that the Republic government is unable to provide enough money for the Clinical Centre, but that is why the regime can give Milan Bek and Miroslav Miskovic 2.5 billion euros, the value of Luke Belgrade's land. Otherwise, the Clinical Centre of Kuburi with basic resources, and they also have problems with unturned rooms. Also mentioned is the privatisation of the clinic center i.e. The Institute, except for the Institute of Pulmonary Diseases, within the Clinical Center, so all other institutes should be transferred to that central building of the Clinical Center. The proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement (Programme for private and financial sector development) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of Serbian citizens is additionally in charge of the new 34,900,000 euros. The latest bill is part of a strategy of international financial organisations and institutions that, according to the Financial Times, are trying to protect Western banks' investment in Eastern and Central Europe. They use the expressions of Eastern Europe here, but they mean Eastern and Central Europe. According to the Financial Times, banks from Western Europe, among which Austrian and German fronts, have placed 1.7 trillion euros in Eastern Europe. The investment must be protected at all costs, due to the interest they are taking after them and because of the capital being drawn into the central banks of these banks. The Financial Times further states that international financial institutions in the first tranche of aid to Western banks envisioned 24 billion euros. However, only Hungary sought 240 billion euros for crisis resolution purposes. The aim of this bill is to protect Western banks in Eastern Europe, who owe both the economy and the population their loans with incredibly high interest. The question arises who will repay these debts? It's those people that the regime continues to throw out on the street today, whose companies are closing or selling for why, as well as those citizens whose profits you're cutting off and whose existence you're jeopardizing with your reckless policy. The poor and poor middle class are still the best payers, so that fact is probably trying to exploit the Republic government. Did this new borrowing have to come to? Of course not. Serbia's budget would have no negatives, nor would the crisis have so many consequences for citizens that the regime did not unconditionally award state property to its tycoons. The 220 hectares of Luke Belgrade land were donated to Milan Bek and his phantom company for 40m euros, although it is worth at least two and a half billion euros. Ladies and gentlemen, tips on this scale have never left Rockefeller or Rothschild. However, what is for the government of Mirko Cvetkovic 2,460,000,000 euros when all this goes on the burden of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In the affair, the Business Centre "Usje" regime, Boris Tadic, donated fortym euros. Experts in Belgrade reportedly did not know that the underground garage that extends to two plots forms an integral part of the contract's subject matter. No one believes that. It's just an incredible possibility! The unilateral application of the SAA from the EU, according to Minister Dragutinovic himself, will cost Serbia 267.000,000 euros. So the new 267.000,000 euros is coming out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. In the opinion of other experts, the burden on the back of Serbian citizens over Serbia's unilateral application of the SAA will be even higher and will amount to 350,000 euros. What is it for this government that seems to steal from the poor to give to the rich? You, in fact, have proven that this thesis from the Alan Ford comic book is feasible. Of course, the regime explains almost all these draft laws to the necessity of EU accession. You have turned EU accession into a new ideology. You replace the red star and the red pentagram with yellow or white, depending on whether it's an EU or a NATO pact. You've painted the invitations to celebrate Victory Day on May 9th in blue-yellow color. So this is the official invitation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On that day, the Republic government added invitations to mark Victory Day to mark Europe Day and the 1950s Shuman Declaration. What does the 1950 Shuman Declaration have to do with Victory Day over Fascism? What difference does it make? So in 1950, there was peace. Ladies and gentlemen, if it hadn't been for the Russian army in World War II, there would have been no Europe. They beat Nazism and freed Europe. However, there would be united countries in Europe, as the SS squad's charter has just established that obligation. So it's about their last charter before the end of the war. If your ideology had strayed, you'd have shown just amazingly, and on the Big Friday of this year. On that day, on the eve of the greatest Christian holiday, Easter, the Democratic Party gave citizens paint for Easter eggs in blue-yellow bags with EU markings, so yellow stars, without even a single Christian symbol! Ladies and gentlemen, Easter is the greatest Christian holiday, and Christmas is the happiest. Whether anyone serious and well-intentioned before and during Easter can share gifts with the symbols of the European Union, precisely those of bureaucrats from Brussels who refused to form Christianity into the Constitution of Europe as one of the most important qualities and fluids of European civilization, although in the books of all historians of civilization it is confirmed that Europe would not be without Christianity. As is known, there are three main, basic characteristics of European civilization, which are: Greek culture, Roman law and Christianity, and among Romeo or Byzantines and their successors, in which we belong, Orthodoxy. These assets, these qualities later led to the establishment of democracy, the development of human rights, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, from this data you can see that Europe and the European Union are not the same. The European Union is an Atlantic form, opposed to traditional European values, for which our people have always fought and will always fight. Here, let me give another example of what the regime is doing. A Belgrade high school graduate's regime forces a new landing or event such as a celebration of Tito's birthday by introducing "The Dances of Europe". Titoism seems to replace the ideologies of the European Union. This is what the European Union is doing: on the official EU website you can see the map of the Republic of Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija. If you notice this white field here (shows paper), it is Kosovo and Metohija; between the rest of Serbia and Kosovo and the Metohija border are the same as between Serbia and Hungary. That's what anyone can see. This is an official EU website. I'll show you a bigger map that we've zoomed in, there's no mistake. It lists data relating to Serbia: the political system – the republic; the capital – Belgrade; the population – eight million; the currency – the Serbian dinar. It is located on a site dedicated to other European countries. The EU's official website is at stake. I think this is scandalous and I ask the government to ask for someone to come out and comment on this evidence that the EU has recognised on its official site independent Kosovo and Metohija and marked the state borders between Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. Furthermore, about symbolism and how you treat our tradition, according to European tradition, above all. On September 15, 2008, on the day of the Thessaloniki Front, you celebrated the Day of Democracy in this particular building. In doing so, you have not mentioned in a single word that the date from the famous Serbian history is also a breakthrough of the Thessaloniki Front. If there hadn't been a breach of the Thessaloniki Front, there wouldn't have been a state or democracy. It is the state that guarantees human rights, which guarantees democracy, if you forget. On that day, President Tadic, Prime Minister Cvetkovic and government ministers attended the building. Right above them, you could see up at the gallery next to the American and English ambassadors, and everything really looked like a puppet theater, as if those two ambassadors were pulling invisible strings over the heads of the regime's representatives. Neither President Tadic nor Prime Minister Cvetkovic mentioned in any word the breach of the Thessaloniki front, the contribution of the Serb military to the break of the crime-related Austro-Hungarian region, but reiterated their obligation to comply with the rules established by the United States and England and concerning Serbia. Is that the end? Apparently not. The symbolism plays an important role in politics, so on 27 January 2009, on the day of the Holy Sava, representatives of the ruling majority in parliament do not mention in any single word the founders of the Serbian state and church, the largest Serbian diplomat, one of the largest European diplomats and legislators, a legislator who, for information, by law, provided Nomokanon with one kind of Ombudsman. Protectors of citizens from the beginning of the 13th century. It's about a certain number of priests who have an obligation to protect the poor from the state power against the self-will of the rich. So the roots of the ombudsman in Serbia lead to the origin of the 13th century. The law of St. Sava is the peer of the English Magna Carta libertatum, only larger than it is one 58 times. Instead of having a responsible relationship with the state, you brainwash citizens with a story about the EU and you owe the state to European banks. The European Union invested 200m euros in Serbia last year. Conversely, Serbian emigration sends five billion euros to Serbia every year – 2.3 through official banking transactions and slightly less than three billion informal channels, is transferred by plane, by bus, as already. The European Union devotes 98% of the time to the regime in the media, while you devote only 2% to Serbian emigration. Where's the logic? It doesn't make any sense. In addition, Serbian emigration requires nothing for money, while Brussels demands interest, political and economic concessions. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, I ask you a question – is it more worth emigration that every year sends five billion euros without any conditions or the European Union investing 200m euros, but takes much more? Here's an example: when the too smart Governor Jelasic reduced the bank's mandatory reserves, at the same time the foreign banks transferred the freed foreign exchanges to their headquarters, at the same time, and a fantastic amount of money, the exchanges pulled out of Serbia. I'd like to add a few more information regarding Brussels. The European Parliament cannot pass laws on its own, suggesting its non-democratic nature. What is this legislative body that can't pass the law? It's not a legislative body. Commissioners in the EU co-opt, suggesting their non-democratic nature. The last agreement in the EU, the Lisbon Agreement, makes 300 sides of the amendment impossible to read because it does not know what they are referring to, which clearly points to its non-democratic nature. Namely, when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the European Parliament asked the Brussels bureaucrats to publish the full text of the Lisbon Agreement, i.e. In addition to the amendments and parts of the previous agreements they refer to, so that citizens of the European Union can understand their exact meaning, the Brussels bureaucrats have easily rejected it. Is there any need to say one more time that it's undemocratic? A special group within today's agenda is the draft laws on confirming an agreement with the famous United States of America, which abolishs the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia and which, dear citizens, empower US troops to kill any man on our country's territory and not to respond to it. So they're given permission to kill. The United States is using this agreement to get what they wanted in Rambuje, and what they didn't get, along with the great victims of our army, police and citizens. In the end, if I have time, I'm going to cross-reference those data from General Pierre Marie Gallo, one of the world's leading geopoliticals, as far as Rambouille is concerned. There is first a bill confirming the agreement between the government of Serbia-Montenegro and the US government on co-operation in the area of preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and improving defence and military relations. Look, we're signing an agreement with the Americans on banning the spread of weapons of mass destruction, and they poisoned our country with ammunition with poor uranium! When it is said to be poored uranium or, they say, depleted uranium, it should be reminded that it is radioactive ammunition that continues to possess alpha and beta radiation, only there is no gamma radiation. Alpha and beta radiation is the most devastating in human health. To mention the contract in Article 7 releases staff and soldiers of the United States criminal responsibility. As explicitly stated in this article, and responsibility for the event of death, i.e. Murders. So if a drunk American in a combat vehicle is trampled by a child in Serbia's territory, he won't be held accountable. Is that what you want to bring into this country? Is this your relationship and your approach to Europe? Is that the way to the future? Is that the 21st century, the occupation of Serbia by the United States? You give them what they asked for in Rambouille and they didn't get it. Article 10 of this Agreement provides that U.S. equipment imported or exported, imported or exported shall not be subject to customs duty or any other control. So Uncle Sam can enter into Serbia what he wants, including nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, without any checks. Is this what you want, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Well, that's exactly what the ruling majority and the government of Mirko Cvetkovic and Boris Tadic are preparing for you. Who can trust them not to bring chemical and biological weapons into Serbia? Why did they sign some conventions? James Baker told Gorbachev that after the fall of the Berlin Wall, the NATO Pact would not spread towards Russia's borders, State Secretary James Baker. What happened? Where's the NATO Pact now? Georgia, Ukraine, surrounds Russia. So they're obviously lying. Milosevic pledged in 1995 to remove sanctions if he signs the Dayton Agreement. He signed it, and what happened? They invented an outside wall of sanctions, something inconceivable in international law and international relations. They're lying! There is not a single man in Serbia who followed American politics, who went well. They let it all down, all of it, all of it, all of it. Look at Perisic, look at Biljana Plavsic, anyone. Do you, dear citizens, want chemical, biological and radioactive bombs in your backyard? The Serbian Radical Party thinks you don't want to. Article 11 of that agreement gives the US the right to build facilities on Serbia's territory in accordance with US regulations. If you haven't heard correctly, I will say once again - Article 11 of that agreement is given the right of the United States to build facilities on Serbia's territory in accordance with US regulations! It's probably the urban plan of Washington, the Pentagon or something. Of course, Serbia has no right to tax anything obtained by Americans. When I say objects, they can build military bases here, so we understand each other. Has anyone here thought about military bases? As is known, Britain's first weekly Sunday Times has released data that the US and NATO have asked Belgrade to grant them locations for military bases. Among the potential sites listed by the English newspaper are Jugovic's mentions at the New Sad Detelinar. In this place are data on the US base in northern Serbia, i.e. in Vojvodina. Perhaps in the function of secession of the northern Serbian province. On the other hand, one of the EU's basic conditions for the construction of a dangerous poison treatment plant is that the facility is located in central Serbia, therefore, not in Vojvodina. General Pierre Marie Galoa, the creator of the French strategic deterrent doctrine, friend of General De Gaulle and one of the world's leading geopoliticals, in his book "Strengthening the people who always said no" to the Serbs, points out that the separation of Vojvodina from the rest of Serbia is a goal that seeks the Anglo-American axis, as well as the SR Germany, through the project of the Volks Group, European ethnic groups and through the promoted Mitteleuropa project, Central Europe. In the early 1990s, according to Prof. Avramov's sympathies in his book "Post-Hungarian War of the West against Yugoslavia", State Secretary James Baker advocated Serbia's adoption of the Precumenian borders and borders before World War I. So he stood for the secession of the Duke. James Becker is also very active today in American foreign policy as some kind of advisor, and you might think, during life, they created an institute that bears his name. It's just amazing! German Ambassador to Belgrade Andreas Cobel said in April 2007, that Kosovo's problem should be resolved as soon as possible, in terms of supervised independence, as problems in Vojvodina and Sandzak could otherwise be opened. This is a quote by Cobel: "Insisting in Kosovo as part of Serbia would destabilise Serbia and then it could be an open issue of Vojvodina, which is new in Serbia. It's not a threat, it's an analysis. "Completed quote. That's what Cobel said at a meeting of the Forum for International Relations of the European Movement in Serbia. So again, the European Movement, which is funded by the European Union and by many organisations from Western Europe. Cobel noted on that occasion that it was not true that Kosovo has always been in Serbia, as it became part of Serbia in 1912, after a long time, and reminded that Vojvodina entered into Serbia in 1918, adding that if Serbia was destabilized, Hungary could insist on Vojvodina. It fits the German project "Volks Group" of ethnic groups. In these words, Cobel, our government had an obligation to remind him that German brands, countless German brands, were united only in 1871, and that only at the end of the 19th century had they started to function as a civilised state, so until then Germany almost didn't exist. If we apply that Cobel argument, what would that mean, that we could disintegrate Germany by German stamps tomorrow, how was it before 1871 and before Bismark united them? In January 2005, Defence Minister Prvoslav Davinic said during a visit to London that NATO and the United States land forces could be stationed in Serbia's territory, singled out a special radar station in Kopalnik. So, in the story of US bases in Serbia, the British Sunday Times was not lonely. In addition, in the second draft law, the draft law confirming the supply and mutual services agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia and the US Ministry of Defence, which is on the agenda, in Article 2. (marked by Roman number two) the US troops' accommodation in Serbia is defined. This agreement obliges Serbia to provide logistical support to the United States of America. their army. For what? Where are the Americans going to give them logistics support? Of course, the answer is clear – for military bases and for a new march to the east. Like Hitler, sometimes, Washington seeks to master the natural resources of Russia, to control the Euro-Asian mass, which is the famous English geopoliticalist Makinder spoke of in the early 20th century, in 1904, marking Serbia and the Vardar-Moral Valley as a key point of control of the edges of the Euro-Asian mass. That is why Zbigev Bžinski, the gray eminence of the United States, proposed three parts of Russia and the exploitation of its resources in a series of articles written for the needs of the Foreign Relations Council. The withdrawal of resources to the Russians was also supported by Madlen Albright in public, and several times, among other things, by the statement that the Russians must not be selfish and to keep their natural resources to themselves. It's just amazing! Do Serbian citizens really want to provide logistical support to Washington that surrounds Russia's military base system? The Serbian Radical Party is confident that it is not what Serbian citizens want. On the contrary, we believe that our people will resolutely oppose this intention and that they will replace a regime that propagates such terrible ideas. Can anyone who thinks for themselves in Serbia advocate our territory to the U.S. military? Washington was the leader of the SFRJ breaking campaign and an independent Kosovo and Metohija recognition campaign. Academic Milorad Ekmečić wrote and spoke on several occasions about a covert 1982 agreement between Ronald Reagan and Pope John Paul II, who on the one hand predicted the withdrawal of the Vatican from the theology of liberation in South America, and, on the other hand, as a concession to the Vatican, the breaking of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the ethnically pure Catholic nation in Slovenia and Croatia. The Pentagon armed and trained Slovenian, Croatian, Muslim and Cypriot paramilitary and terrorist formations. You have this information, among other things, in the book of General Dusan Willic and General Bosko Todorovic "Terrorism and New World Order" and in other books. They, by the way, helped defend the late President Slobodan Milosevic. So who can trust Americans? They committed a brutal aggression against the SRJ in 1999, in which they also used uranium ammunition. They killed the children, the women, whom they arrived. They violated the Charter of the United Nations, the Helsinki Final Act, etc. On the other hand, Russia is firmly against independent Kosovo and Metohija. Moscow is ready, although its capital has been blocked for more than eight years in Serbia... I remind you that the first Russian bank managed to enter Serbia last year, it is Moscow Bank, that there is still a waiting entry of Gazprom Bank, which has such capital that it can finance the entire economy. They have already built projects that can refinance credits to businesses under more favourable conditions. So less interest for our economy and less interest for our population. Russia is ready to build the South Stream pipeline through Serbia and thus fully ensure our country's energy stability for the next 50 and over years, as well as to preserve Vojvodina in Serbia. To remind you of what energy stability is, I can invite you to visit, say, the Foreign Relations Council website and look for an item of energy security, i.e. Security and you'll see how much those documents devote to this important project, especially in the 21st century. As for the preservation of Vojvodina in Serbia, it is clear that the "South Stream" is guarding Vojvodina in Serbia through central Serbia and northern Serbia as well. Among other things, the competitors from the Nabucco project, including the Austrian and Hungarian "Mol" and "OMV", who tried to prevent the entry of Russia's capital into Serbia in the building directorate of the Nabucco project, with the help of Mr. Mladjan Dinkic above all, but others. Ladies and gentlemen, the rights you're giving the United States must have the Russian Federation in Serbia, and more than that, because it's friendly towards us and it can help us limit Washington's power to the Balkans. Let me remind you that this is also one of the basic democratic flows. The principle of sharing power is that it guarantees democracy in one country, where three branches of government, executive, judicial and legislative, through a system of brakes and balance developed in the United Kingdom ("checks and balances"), restrict each other and make each other independent. So in order to limit the power of Washington doing what it does, we need to seek Russia's help. Instead, the Boris Tadic regime is giving new bases to the United States of Serbia, allowing US soldiers to freely pass through Serbia's territory, to kill whoever they want, and not to respond. For nine years, the government in our country spoke, played as Washington and Brussels played. We are being kidnapped by Kosovo and Metohija, and the regime of Boris Tadic, with two proposals and with the SOFA agreement that resolves the status of US troops, I would say, occupation troops in Serbia, which is also on the agenda of this session, resolves the positive status of US troops on our territory, frees American killers from criminal responsibility and gives them the opportunity that only the occupier had in the past, to build bases and facilities wherever they wish in Serbia, without any taxes and customs and to enter and amount from our territory whatever they wanted, without any control. Ladies and gentlemen, it's an occupation. If you vote for this bill, all of you, you support this occupation. You will allow U.S. soldiers to kill unpunished, harass citizens in Serbia. You'll have nothing to justify later. Think of your families, neighbors, friends before you do something like that. The totalitarian nature of the Anglo-American civilization is long known. She was well defined by the famous writer and dissident Alexander Zinov in his book "West". I can give you a fresh example. In January, US President Barack Obama passed a law that makes it difficult for immigrants to work in the United States, so one xenophobic law; it is difficult for immigrants now, almost impossible to employ themselves in US state-owned enterprises and companies. So if that were earlier, you'd have problems with Obama himself, you'd have a problem with Schwarzenegger himself as an immigrant. Do not give rights to US troops in Serbia who are reserved for the occupation! To be occupied, and not to admit, it's much worse than the announced occupation, because the occupiers' moves don't have any legal power, they're absolutely nothing. Let me remind you, it's international public law. It's about congenital norms, jus cogens, international rights, which are absolute and their violation draws absolute futility of acts stemming from that act, from that part, from that part. After all, these agreements with Washington violate our country's neutrality platform, adopted by the Serbian Parliament. When you accept these three agreements, you're under the hat of the United States military industrial lobby, under the hat of the United States Army. Look at this monument to the children killed in Tashmajdan Park. Some years ago, someone ripped up a statue of Milice Rakic, girls from that monument, and today, they're just wings. So no one found it appropriate to restore it. You might want to do it now, if you didn't do it in the meantime. It's your relationship to killed children in NATO aggression. There are also Albanian children, so that there is no confusion, because, for example, many people have been killed in places such as Sheh Mahala, etc. in the south of Kosovo and Metohija. Our country and our people have not lost by opposing the universal world, i.e. Benefit hegemonism, which is an oxymoron used by Zbigev Bžinski in the book "Great chess board" – he says that American hegemonism is benevolent, which is a kind of political oxymoron. The Serbs stopped their quest to the east and thus contributed to the birth of a multipolar world, a democratic world. Our army, to say plainly, stopped the NATO Pact in 1999, more specifically, we stopped them for about ten years. In World War II, we managed to stop Hitler in two weeks, which was quite enough for the Nazis to be late to go out on the Volokolam Road, so that the Russian Red Army would recover and eventually free Europe and defeat Nazism. The U.S. Army has failed to occupy the entire territory of our country. Symbolically, F-117 A was shot down, but B2, Misuria's ghost, strategic bomber and the most expensive plane in the world. This was made public in an interview with Witness Zoltan Dani, who first shot down a stealth bomber, the one that fell in Budjanovci. So, the thing is very clear. The role of our people is significant and will be recorded in history. The resistance wasn't in vain. So the role of our people will be recorded in history as a contribution to the fight for freedom and democracy, precisely for those ideals that US President Woodrow Wilson cited after World War I in his written message as Serbian ideals. [[Applause in the O.R.]] He devoted a good part of the speech to Serbia and Serbs, justifying Serbia's defence and their victory, of course, that is to oppose Austria in World War I. Ladies and gentlemen, the SOFA agreement, which we have just mentioned so far, is an act of complete occupation of our country. Simbolically, his copy in Serbian and Cyrillic script, President Boris Tadic, probably added to the Latin Condoleezza Rice, although all the propaganda material of the Democratic Party is on the Cyrillic, of course, ahead of the elections. To reach that agreement, signed in Washington on September 7, 2006, was a real undertaking. The Department of Defense has been covering the deal, they wouldn't announce it for a year. The government of the Republic of Serbia has been hiding the agreement for a year. Why, what were you hiding? Here, now we'll show you what you've been hiding. The move, therefore, is the discovery of the agreement, disclosure of data related to the agreement has been achieved by a young SRS expert on the fight against corruption, Ivan Minic, who is also the first man in Serbia to write a full analysis of this agreement, and I thank him on this occasion. As is known, in Article 51. The Constitution of Serbia and Article 5. The law on the availability of information to each citizen of Serbia guarantees access to information of public importance. However, that right regarding the SOFA agreement has been usurped for years. The cabinet of the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic instructed us to ask the SOFA for an agreement from the government of the Republic of Serbia, with the reason that the Serbian President's cabinet does not own the same. The Serbian government's secretary claimed that neither the government has a SOFA agreement. So, the situation for Nusic. We've filed a request to the Foreign Ministry, but we've received word from that authority that they're referring us to at the Department of Defense. We listened to the Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so we applied to the Ministry of Defence, but there was no response to that request by Ivan Minic. Since no one from the Ministry of Defence has accepted a positive or negative response within 15 days to the request, using our law guaranteed the law on 7 December 2006, we have made a complaint to the Republic's Commissioner for Information. Since we were suspicious of the foreign ministry's claim that they did not have the requested SOFA agreement, which resolves the status of US occupation troops in Serbia, in addition to a statement of appeal to the defence ministry's silence, we also made a complaint about the foreign ministry's suspicious response. So, since 7 December 2006, we've been waiting for the final solution of the trustees, but there's obviously been some kind of stalemate. It was only 18 September 2007 that the Ministry of Defence granted the Commissioner a statement on our appeal. Of course, the answer was negative, they wouldn't give the agreement. A statement by the Ministry of Defence states that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the holder of the procedure for confirming international contracts, which is a meaningless explanation, and that, under the law, SOFA Agreement is on record and kept in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So they recorded it for a year. It further states in the statement that the process of confirming that agreement has been initiated, but that it has not been completed. In view of this, the Ministry of Defence is of the opinion that it is not possible to respond to the request made by the applicant at this stage of the procedure to make the agreement available. This confusion has again run into a stalemate in the Intelligence Commissioner's office. At the insistence of SRS representative Ivan Minic, three months after the defence ministry's statement, and after a total year of conducting the administrative procedure, the process was finally completed. Yes, the procedure is closed, but the dilemma remains – who actually owns SOFA agreement. The trustee himself didn't know that either. As a result, on 14 December 2007, the Commissioner reached a final solution, more specifically, because of the specific situation, he made two solutions, acting in two cases related to the same case - SOFA Agreement: one solution concerns the Ministry of Defence and the other to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Commissioner ordered these authorities not to be delayed, and no later than three days after the date of receipt of the solution, to our representative to deliver a copy of the US troops' status agreement in Serbia, so-called SOFA agreement. Since the yellow masks in Serbia fell this time, and justice won, the authorised face of the Ministry of Defence of Serbia has executed the trustees' solution. So after more than a year of fighting the SOFA agreement is finally available to us. Of course, it should not be forgotten that Secretary of the Ministry of Defence Dusan Radulovic made a harsh lie when he claimed that the SOFA agreement was in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that the Ministry of Defence was not responsible for acting on the request of an information seeker. So it's not true. The full name of this, according to the sovereignty of our country, is the document: the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States on the protection of status and access and use of military infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia. The preamble states that the agreement is being concluded, as a wish by both sides to advance defence co-operation. So that's co-operation: they're bombing us, and we're putting up with it. It is further said that the co-operation is based on full respect for the sovereignty of both sides and the objectives of the UN Charter. However, having regard to the whole of the Agreement, i.e. the content of the Agreement, this claim is also at stake. As further in the preamble, the agreement is concluded with both sides' desire to share responsibility for supporting US armed forces that could stay in the Republic of Serbia. Why should they stay in the Republic of Serbia? Where are they going? At military practice, it's obvious, according to the Russian Federation. At the end of the preamble, the agreement concludes, given the need to improve common security, contribute to international peace and build closer co-operation. The question arises, what peace and what co-operation? Perhaps it is peace in Kosovo and Metohija and the issue of co-operation that results in the province's independence. I can prove to you on a concrete case that Washington will never cooperate with Serbia. A simple example, when 5,000 American citizens were directly killed, a terrorist attack on September 11th. The two main organisers of the terrorist attacks, Muhammad Ata and Halid Sheikh Muhammad, and the third famous Safet Ćatovic, Alias Abu Mali, were on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo and Metohija, where they participated in the fight against Serbs. Muhammad Atta was on another plane that hit the World Trade Center. That's what the Americans had. They also had data that from the mission of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the UN, where Safet Ćatovic, i.e. Abu Mali, an organized part of the terrorist attacks on the United States, that's where jihad camp was organized in Pennsylvania. Our experts have informed the Americans of this, from Republika Srpska and Serbia. The Americans are silent about it, and the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is just amazing because it has an absolute argument in its hands to reject every attack by the United States against our country, because we have specifically opposed the terrorists who carried out the attacks on the United States on September 11th. In a commission report formed to examine facts and circumstances related to 9/11, so-called The 911 Commission, meaning the US official commission, even states that Muhammad Ata and Halid Sheikh Muhammad participated in the fight against Serbs and the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija and Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the case where, in the interest of American citizens, if there were co-operation with the state of Serbia, there is no co-operation, and you are now placing these agreements on us. We're moving on to the SOFA agreement. Under the US Armed Forces, an entity that makes up US personnel and all assets, equipment and assets of the US Armed Forces located on Serbia's territory, which could temporarily reside in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in connection with the activities stemming from this agreement. Temporarily, it doesn't define itself. Also in Serbia's territory, both legal and natural persons can stay under contract with the United States, companies and companies and their non-citizen employees. So this is an old American doctrine: first they bomb one country, and then they send construction firms to work on it a little bit and take money from the murdered, destroyed people and the state. It would be a great opportunity for Dick Chaney, Richard Holbrooke and other representatives of the US military industrial lobby to take extra money from the Serbian state from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The competent authorities defined by this agreement include the Ministry of Defence of Serbia and the U.S. Department of Defence. The defined objectives of the SOFA agreement confirm that it is about tearing the sovereignty of the state, which frees all its resources from enemies who have bombed our country for 78 days. I quote: "Serbia will allow the US to access and use those objects that could be important for the implementation of the interstate partnership programme and other activities on which the parties achieve agreement, including, inter alia, transport, storage and training facilities," said Article 2 of this Agreement. Article 2(2) states that access and use of these facilities must be made possible without compensation. Article 4 gives freedom of movement to personnel from the United States, soldiers and other persons employed in the US military on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and that entry and exit from the country only with personal documents issued by the United States! So Hashim Thaci could come in, too, he's their ally. Serbia is obliged to accept US personnel as the fullest of all documents, driving licences, professional permits and beliefs, without the obligation to pay taxis. "The status of staff of the United States will be equivalent to the status of administrative and technical staff of the US Embassy, in accordance with the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 18 April 1961," said Article 5 of this Agreement. Provisions referred to in Article 6 SOFA agreements predict that US personnel are authorized to wear uniforms and weapons as long as they are on duty, and will be on duty all the time, if provided for by order, and will always have an order. The parties are also scheduled to co-operate to take the necessary measures to ensure staff, US assets in the Republic of Serbia. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, do you really want American soldiers to walk you with guns in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, along with the kindergartens your children go to, besides primary schools, to regulate traffic in Novi Sad, Belgrade, Nis, and that's what they'll do? When their convoys pass, the traffic police will have to stop traffic, whether they want to or not, or they will do it themselves, because they have absolute immunity. That kind of immunity does not even have President Tadic in Serbia. Another humiliation in a series of humiliations and lawlessnesss is seen in the provisions of Article 7 of this Treaty. Armed forces and staff of the United States are exempt from paying taxes and other similar taxes applied in the Republic of Serbia, according to point 1) of Article 7 of the SOFA Agreement. Furthermore, armed forces and US personnel are expected to import and export and use in the Republic of Serbia personal use items, equipment, funds, materials, technology, training and services to implement this agreement. Such imports, exports and use will be excluded from the inspection process, licences, other restrictions, customs payments, taxes and other duties applied in the Republic of Serbia. So, similarly, almost identically, with this first agreement with the United States regarding the ban on the spread of weapons of mass destruction. So they can bring in and out of Serbia whatever they want without inspection. That the aggressor has all the gratis arrangements also confirm the provisions laid down in point 2) of Article 7 of the SOFA Agreement. Sailors and aircraft owned, controlled or operated exclusively for the purposes of US armed forces will be exempt from paying airport and port taxis, parking taxis, piloting port fees and port trailer services and other port and similar taxis when they are in Serbia. It is further specified that aircraft owned, controlled or operated exclusively for the purposes of the US Armed Forces are not subject to the payment of taxis for navigation, overflight, terminal use or similar taxis when they are in the Republic of Serbia. So, they'll be able to cruise freely in the Serbian sky. This will not be particularly scary, since the government has privatised the Aviation Control Agency; it is now a limited-responsibility society whose director has a salary of 16,000 euros, and will very soon be integrated into NATO's air defence system, so this anti-cancer shield. The US Armed Forces will only pay adequate fees for seeking and providing tariff services paid by the Serbian Army. The status of untouchable results from this provision, which is set out in Article 7 — aircraft, vehicles and vessels of the United States, will be excluded from the inspection procedure. The provisions referred to in points (1) to (3) of Article 8 of the SOFA Agreement further define the lawlessness and approve the gratis arrangements of the US Armed Forces. These provisions state that the US Armed Forces can conclude contracts relating to the supply of materials, funds and equipment, as well as the provision of services, including construction in the Republic of Serbia, without restrictions on the choice of partners, suppliers or persons providing goods or providing services in accordance with US regulations. So they're building again according to U.S. regulations, they can build whatever they want, as much as they want, and our country can't have any insight into that. There's even a ban on air surveillance! So it's obvious they're hiding something. What are they hiding? It's logical, military bases and similar centers. The purchase of goods and services in the Republic of Serbia by or on behalf of the United States is not subject to taxation, payment of customs duties and similar duties. The same treatment has legal and natural persons under contract with the United States, which will be exempt from paying taxes or similar taxes. Both imports and exports of these persons will also be exempted from the procedure of approving other restrictions on customs payments. So again, great damage to the Serbian budget, but above all, the huge damage to Serbia's sovereignty and to our citizens who will be in grave danger from the US military. You know what they're doing. It's been cut off by a time wire in Italy. A lot of people have been killed. People were killed by the American army in Okinawa and elsewhere around the world. The best thing about it is that citizens who are close to U.S. military bases can't simply see American soldiers with their eyes. The highlight of the humiliation of our country's citizens is a member of the 9th SOFA Agreement. This provision states that, in addition to the request for compensation under the contract, the parties will waive the right to claim any compensation for damage, loss or destruction of property, injury or death of staff of any party that occurred during the performance of their official duties under the SOFA contract. And now soldiers, members of the M.O.P., can kill when they want to, and they can't answer for it. It is further stated that third parties' claims for damages or losses caused by US personnel are being resolved by the United States in accordance with US laws and regulations. So you don't have Serbian legislation, you have US legislation. There is no agreement on the legislation of a third country, no international norms, no international law. It's just amazing, we're going to apply U.S. legislation, the opposite of the Constitution, against our legal order, against common sense! Perhaps you would like to declare Serbia a 51st U.S. state? It'd be easier for you. Article 10 defines the use of water, electricity and utility services by the US Armed Forces at the prices applicable to Serbia's Army. Furthermore, point 2) of Article 10 states that Serbia accepts that it may be necessary for US armed forces to use radio spectrum, so telecommunications, on their own account. Guess who's gonna have priority, whether our army, the M.O.P., or the U.S. Army? Of course, the U.S. Army. What happens if that army covers some criminals, terrorists with whom... They're working with Hashim Thaci with the Shiptar terrorists downstairs, what if they're hiding them here in Serbia's territory, what if they provide their activities here? Hashim Thaci, Ramush Haradinaj – these are their partners, their associates. They are Democrats for them, the future of the Balkans, the future of the 21st century. The provisions of Articles 11 and 12 of the SOFA Agreement provide for the possibility for countries to conclude more detailed technical arrangements for the implementation of the SOFA Agreement, as well as the possibility of amending the SOFA Agreement with mutual agreement. The interpretation of this agreement is provided for in Article 13 which states that foreign consultations, including, if necessary, diplomatic channels, which Minister Jeremic said in the morning would not exist... The man is dead cold in the morning session said our ambassadors, diplomats none of the ministers in the countries where they are on duty will accept. It's just amazing. So we don't have diplomacy and foreign affairs. They'll solve any disagreements. Regarding the application and implementation of SOFA agreements and technical arrangements, the parties undertake not to resolve disagreements before any courts – who still solves problems before courts, the Americans solve their problems in Guantanamo and the secret prisons of the CIA, on which there is a UN report – i.e. they will not refer to third parties for resolution, all will be resolved by Washington, all will be solved by the Pentagon. The enemy has secured himself in the far future, point 2) of Article 13 of the SOFA Agreement, as follows: in the event that both parties in the future become signatories of similar agreements which contain provisions which are contrary to the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement will apply. What do they want with this member? They want this member to prevent equal co-operation between the Serbian state and the Russian Federation. As I have already noted, only the Russian Federation can limit American totalitarianism here in the Balkans, only it can, the EU can't do that, it doesn't have its own security system. The security of the European Union provides the NATO Pact, provides Washington, provides the Pentagon. Therefore, the European Union is not a rounded entity of international relations and international law because it is unable to take care of its security. This is what this point 2) of Article 13. Finally, in the end, Article 14. How few members and so many harmful things for the Republic of Serbia and for our citizens! Article 14 provides for the entry into force, duration and termination of the SOFA Agreement. The SOFA Agreement shall enter into force on the date of signature and shall apply within a year. After the expiry of that period, this Agreement will continue to apply unless any party cancels it by diplomatic means. In this case, the agreement shall cease to apply after 180 days from the date of receipt of the written notice of the intention of termination. At the end of the SOFA agreement, it is said to be signed under government authority, in two identical copies, in the official language of Serbia and English, with both texts equally authentic. Under the authority of the Serbian government, the historic responsibility for Serbia's full submission to the US military was assumed by President Boris Tadic himself, and the US government was initialled by US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. For now, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19395	Thank you. Miss Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19396	Madam President, with thanks to excellent counterpart Boris Aleksic, and above all for the fact that a young man, as he said, who is only 21 years old, Ivan Ninic made an elaborate on the topic of SOFA agreement for the citizens of Serbia, I strongly protest on behalf of the SRS and I believe that the injured member of 104 and a member of 195 are injured. The Rules of Procedure because defence minister Dragan Sutanovac is not present in the O.R. for more than half an hour, 40 minutes. Madam President, the SOFA agreement, as you heard, and now the citizens of Serbia, has been under wraps for four years. They did not know that neither did the leaders of this aggressive policy of the Western NATO Pact, because two years ago when a delegation of the Serbian Parliament, headed by the then-president of the board, Mr. Ivic Dacic, was staying at the Shape base in Brussels, so at the centre of NATO force for Europe, Mr. Jadranko Vukovic asked NATO authorities what the SOFA agreement was and what the US military's relationship to Serbia would be. We have now realized that our role is such that we will be absolutely, as we are, in the situation that we are a protectionist state, that the incredible powers through these 14 members, which Mr Alexic explained to detail, will have an American occupation army in Serbia. Serbian citizens, of whom at least three-quarters of them do not want Serbia in the NATO Pact, cannot accept such humiliations by the defence minister, who is a complete NATO pact. Only under public pressure last week and because of the fact that all those who are Serbian patriots, but also other Serbian intellectuals, our soldiers did not go to NATO military exercise in Georgia. Therefore, I believe this is the biggest shame for both the Serbian government and above all for those representing the Ministry of Defence, which is personally Dragan Sutanovac who was not present here. You know there are no amendments to this proposal. (President: Time. It is time for you to understand that we are, unfortunately, a country in a difficult vassal relationship...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19397	Ms. Jovanovic, the co-workers of Minister Sutanovac are here. He'll get involved and he'll be given absolutely every detail that's been shown here. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19398	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we all know what agenda we have ahead of us. I've defined myself to be talking about three ratifications that are gaining the power of the law of these 38 that are on the agenda. Before that I must say that I would like to propose to this incompetent government... (President: Mr. Shormaz, I apologize to you, Mrs. Plassic is the authorised representative of G17 Plus. What difference does it make? I started talking. You gave me your word. Now let him wait. I started talking, I think that's the basic order. (President: You've called before, but she had an advantage. I know she had the advantage, but you gave me your word. The incompetent Government of the Republic of Serbia, I know where I left off, I could give her a proposal, since it acts as if it were some new Euromercalia, so we became the only country that has the ambition to become an EU member, not to help the EU country that is running to become an EU member, but rather to help the EU. We have done so through a unilateral application of the SAA, where we are helping the EU's economy at its own expense amid an economic crisis with a few hundred million euros. It seems to be – there is, there can be, and then we can do so. The real damage will only be calculated when the holdings are damaged, which have not yet been properly established. Since there was a fire in the European Commission building in Brussels today, this team that was going to announce the construction of Corridor 10 to go to the EU and help in this way quickly repairing the damage to the European Commission building. Surely they would have known much better, but they promised what we heard in the '90s -- quickly completed Corridor 10, then quickly completed the stripes, then the bridges, by the end of this year. It's even been said -- "faster Serbian railways", which we didn't believe would be heard of in this way since the 1990s. To get back to the agenda. Three bill proposals, a former SRS counterpart speaking about them, are unacceptable to the DSS. I would like to invite all parties to give good thought to the voting day, especially the SPS and DS, given what we have decided in this same home in December 2007, then the G17 voted in favour of this and given what happened in the first half of 2008 and from the act of declaration, irregular, independence of Kosovo, so to this day. It is a bill to confirm the agreement between the government of Serbia-Montenegro and the US government on co-operation in the area of preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and improving defence relations. The agreement was signed on 5 April 2006. He was standing in a drawer, thank God, and he was never released during the previous two governments, to be ratified and to gain the power of the law, regardless of what was signed as an agreement. There is also a draft law confirming the Agreement on supply and mutual services between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence of the United States, signed on 8 November 2006, and there is the proposal for a law, the famous SOFA agreement, on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States on the protection of status and access and use of military infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia, signed on 7 September 2006. As for the law on co-operation in the area of preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the promotion of defence and military relations, it is simply cynical that we are discussing it today and ratifying it. Because it's just enough to look at the introduction to law, preamble, which says: "in order to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction, technology, materials and expertise in this matter... ". That's not what Serbia does, you know who does it, that's what the United States does. What do we need with them to prevent the spread of such weapons when we're not doing it anyway? "... in order to prevent unauthorised transfer and transport, including transit of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons and related materials, technology and expertise, meaning that co-operation is also related to radioactive materials (including but not limited to radioactive sources) that can be used for radiation dissemination devices. Headed by the United States, the NATO Pact has bombed us with all kinds of weapons except biological weapons. All known weapons were used against us and, radiologists know it in particular, the consequences of using such weapons are only now beginning to feel in Serbia. Protective gland experts say only now, after ten years, will Serbia feel the consequences and have major problems and an increased number, even several times the number, severe thyroid disease and thyroid cancer. Nothing the United States has done to help Serbia afterwards. Nothing. They neither gave money nor sent experts to help clear Serbia. In no way has they shown any remorse over what they did to Serbia. The NGO, an expert group of G17 (no party) then, estimated that $30 billion was a damage in Serbia from the bombing, 3000 human casualties, and all that is now waiting for us. Serbia is still being bombed by the United States this way. From the SOFA agreement, which my colleague spoke about earlier in detail, I will read to you the following thing: "in order to conclude the agreement", colleagues from the DS this is important to hear, if possible, "on improving co-operation in the area of defence between Serbia and the United States, confirming that this co-operation is based on full respect for the sovereignty of the party and the UN Charter, given the party's desire to confirm their responsibility for support" etc. I repeat: "confirming that this co-operation is based on full respect for the sovereignty of the parties and the UN Charter". It was signed on September 7th, 2006. At that time, it didn't even have to be controversial, but from the day the United States admitted (and that happened in 2008, a year and a half later) a unilateral, unfair declaration of Kosovo's independence by terrorists, extremists in Kosovo and Metohija, from that moment on, this agreement, as well as the previous two, did not apply, because the United States has thus violated the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia and how it violated and violated the UN Charter. It's a state with which you can't sign an agreement like this. They showed it in part a year and a half later. Thank God we didn't ratify these agreements right after the signing. Therefore, I call on parliament to reject this in the day of voting. It is interesting that these proposals stand in the congregation procedure from October 31st, and that only now, two days before Biden's arrival, they are put on the agenda. They were not placed in October of the month, neither in November nor in December. We had so many big agendas. They're not put on, they're put on right now. Here several of my predecessors have already spoken of what the US ambassador had said in the previous few statements, in the previous few days. I'll remind you of another thing he gave himself for rights. Believe it or not, I'm going to defend you a little bit now, he said Serbian President Boris Tadic is not a bad politician, he's a good politician, but he can't afford to be president of the DS at the same time (he said that seven days ago in an interview with the newly-soldic Dnevnik), and Mladjan Dinkic and Bozidar Djelic may be good economists, but that doesn't mean they are good politicians. He gives himself the right, of course, is probably the key factor that put you together, that he even tells you which personnel to have and who to put in government, who's bad, who's doing good, who's not doing good, who can be president of a party in Serbia and who shouldn't be party president in Serbia. It's not as terrible as what Mr. Peter Faith said about the BBC a few days ago, I mean Friday. Pay good attention, that's another argument which is why all these three bill proposals should be rejected. Mr. Peter Feith said the following sentence - north of Kosovo and Metohija, northern Kosovo is the last black hole in Europe. There are extremists who support some nationalist parties in Serbia. These extremists are probably the assembly, the legitimate assembly in Kosovo and the Serbian community's Metohija and their representatives. We all participated in these elections, we all have representatives there, they are now extremists for them as legitimate representatives of the Serbian people. In addition, he said the government of the Republic of Serbia must bring them into order. "This nationalist party... "probably thinks of us from the DSS, we pride ourselves on helping these people out there, what bothers Mr. Peter Faith, that's his problem. I'm telling you, they're extremists for them today. In three months, that same gentleman can say they're terrorists. When he utters that word, these people down there become a legitimate target for a NATO pact that does not respect the UN Charter and that's when the Serb hunting season begins in northern Kosovo. Please, let's get serious. Let's reject these three proposals, show our attitude as a state and help the Serbs downstairs. We don't have a single reason and we don't have a single benefit from ratification of these three agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19399	The word has Mrs. Snezana Stojanovic-Plassic on behalf of the G 17 Plus Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19400	Thank you. I hope I got the right to speak as an authorised representative. Thank you. Since I called an hour ago, but apparently there's been some kind of misunderstanding... I don't know if you've informed us there's no more TV transmissions. (President: Mrs. Comic announced there will be no direct transfer. A delayed transmission will take place. I thank you. The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, although I think they're getting smaller, respected colleagues and colleagues, first I apologize for speaking from the post, or sitting down, because that way I'll find it more convenient to read some papers. I agree with all the authorised representatives who said that it was little time to explain all the conventions that are now on the agenda, but I really cannot support fully what they said, given that they then used 12 minutes to read the title, and some talked about completely other topics. On behalf of G 17 plus, I will try to get the citizens to know in detail with one of the proposed conventions, with the European Social Charter, and my two colleagues from the parliamentary group will then talk about two other documents, so I hope that this will demonstrate what G 17 plus essentially believes in, which is that we have time to explain to the citizens what we are talking about and that we have time to work fast enough to speed up the process of European integration. Like I said, I'll talk about the European Social Charter. G 17 plus this charter, as well as other conventions, will support it. Why? Because G 17 plus believes that Serbia is solid and that it should be a socially responsible state, because we believe that social responsibility is only possible if it is sustainable, if there is sustainable economic growth and development at the same time, because social responsibility is impossible if economic growth is threatened. The third reason is that we believe that Serbia can and should be an inclusive society in which each citizen will make a full contribution to his participation, because it is only possible for economic development and it is possible to ensure dignity for every citizen of Serbia, and because we believe in the European future of our country. Why do we believe in the European future? Conversely, some are trying to imagine that this is just a series of rules and procedures that will cost us dearly and that will make our lives more difficult, many EU documents say that the EU's main feature is solidarity, that it is the fundamental goal of all European societies, and of prosperity, which must not be denied to citizens today and, also, that solidarity contributes to economic development and social progress. Building an inclusive Europe is essential for achieving the EU's objectives, which is primarily sustainable economic growth, a greater number of quality jobs and greater social cohesion. As part of the work on social cohesion and on issues related to social policy in the EU, some basic issues have been reached, and this is above all a consensus on the full eradication of child poverty, the achievement of an open and inclusive labour market, the achievement of a decent housing for all citizens, the eradication of discrimination on persons with disabilities, minorities and immigrants and the removal of the problem of financial exclusion. When we talk about the European Social Charter itself, I want to say that it was signed far away in 1961. She's older than many of our citizens, I can say I'm her age, and she came into force for the first time in 1965. Europe has a long tradition when we talk about social policy. The revised European Charter was signed in 1996 and entered into force in 1999. What is the European Social Charter talking about? It speaks of social and economic rights from the everyday lives of citizens, and so it also concerns the everyday life of our citizens. These are, above all, the issue of housing, the issue of movement of goods, the issue of labour and labour relations, health and education, social rights and, basically, human rights. The European Social Charter has 31 members. From this point on, it is a recommendation that the State which signes and ratifys the European Social Charter of the so-called so-called so-called "European Social Charter". binding or hard members, or positions, have nine, accepts, or ratifys at least six, and that they can select other members by choice, with a total of not less than 16. What members of the European Charter are required? I would like to say that our country has signed out of these mandatory nine members (and now I hope we will ratify them) all nine, and that it has also ratified 20 other members of the European Charter. So, practically, we have accepted 29 of the 31 members of the European Charter, and later I will say which are the two that we have not accepted. As regards those who are required, these are: labour rights, the right to organise, the right to collective bargaining, the right of children and youth to protection, the right to social security, the right to social and medical assistance, the right to family to social, legal and economic protection, the right of migrant workers and their families to protection and assistance and equal opportunities and treatment in employment and labour, without discrimination based on gender. Our country, as I said, had an obligation to accept six of these nine members. We have accepted all nine members, with the belief that in many of these areas our legislative practice already exists, but also, that most of these rights are realised in practice. I have carefully read each and every one of these rights and I can say that we have reason to be proud as a state that most of these rights our citizens really do. I have a mild reserve according to equal opportunities in the treatment of employment and work without gender discrimination because there are cases that it's not exactly like that, but I believe it's more of a challenge to prevent and eliminate these cases all together in the future development of our society. As for the other 16 members, or recommendations for a total of 16 members, we would only miss seven more, but our country felt that it could ratify 20 other members of the European Charter and these are: fair working conditions, which means that in our country, we are regulated and safe at work, working week, working week, rest between Sundays, or weekends, vacations, annual holidays, night work and women's work have been regulated. So, in many areas of the proposed areas, we already have legislative and everyday practice. Also, the right to safe and healthy working conditions, the right to fair compensation, referring to minimum earnings, earnings during the holidays, overtime; that is also something that is already established practice in our labour law. Article 8 refers to the rights of women employed, to the protection of motherhood. Article 9 – the right to professional orientation, the right to professional training, the right to protection of health, the right to benefits and social security, the rights of persons with disabilities to independence, social integration and participation in the life of the community. I think we've been as a state lately, and we here in parliament have shown that we are seriously dealing with these problems. The Law against Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities was passed, and, to the great satisfaction of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, we also adopted the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities a week ago. In many other laws there are legal obligations concerning the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities, such as construction. However, I'm afraid that in some aspects of practice, the full application of the law has not shown itself, which is also one challenge, I would say, for all of us and here are additional obligations, following the ratification of this charter, that as a society, we are taking this even more seriously. The next member, Article 18, refers to a paid job in the territory of another country. Here you're thinking of the right to a paid job, thinking of foreign citizens and those who live and work in the territory of our country. Then, informing and consulting on the economic and financial situation, on decisions affecting labour relations. Here you think of informing workers and here I also have a dilemma, and I believe that this is a kind of challenge, as well as the next member talking about the participation of workers in decision-making on working conditions and the working environment and their improvement. Or, for example, a member who speaks of the right of workers to protect their claims in the event of insolvency of business, or Article 28, which speaks of the right of workers to protection within the framework of entrepreneurship. As far as our legal provisions are concerned, I know that Serbia has good legislation in this part, however, it is also a fact that in practice these rights are often not respected. These days I've been in contact with several employees of some companies from my city, Leskovec, such as Leskodrov, Leteks, former "Mesocombinate" and some other companies, "Lemind - technomachina", where workers have really serious objections that they have not been paid back, that they do not exercise the right, that employers do not give them all these rights that we speak of, and when it comes to social organisation, and when it comes to information about business, and when it comes to decision on working conditions. I think it's really a challenge for our society, because most of the time our citizens wander from institution to institution, wondering who should, in essence, make their rights fully achieved. If the rights to earnings have been achieved through courts, then there is no enforcement because there are various machinations of employers; if it is reported to the competent police administration, then there is a long investigation that is coming to the court, and the trials take a very long time, so that in practice we have a real problem with achieving these rights of workers and I believe that it is a great challenge for the entire government, and not just for individual ministries. As for the rights of the elderly to full social protection, I also think that as a state we also have room to work on, given that older than 65 years fall into the poorest and, together with children, unfortunately one of the most endangered categories in our society, especially those of old people who have no income, pensions or live in rural areas. In these cases, their right to a dignified residence, dignity ageing and full participation in social life is certainly compromised, and this ratification of the social charter commits us to full respect for all these rights and I believe that this is one of the areas in which we should also work further. Article 29 refers to the right to information and consultation in cases of collective dismissal, and Article 30 to the right of workers to protection against poverty and social exclusion. It is true that the state of Serbia is ready for the exercise of this right to a full extent, because over the past years we have worked very seriously to reduce poverty and social exclusion and have enviable results in this field, but also, as said in the social charter, the state is obliged to reconsider the measures to adapt them, if necessary. I believe that such a need exists in Serbia today, given the fact, firstly, that with the implementation of the poverty reduction strategy, there has already been a point where there is a need to think about what and how, given that it was passed back in 2003, and also because of the new economic situation and the economic crisis that threatens our country as a whole. I truly believe that the government will very soon propose and give, first and foremost, to the MPs, and then to the public, the insight of the measures specific to the most vulnerable and the poorest, in addition to these measures aimed at businesses and other areas, banking and others. As for all these members we have committed ourselves to, there are certainly a few laws that we could pass and that would certainly contribute to being more responsible as a state, to be able to apply this social charter as well as to fully achieve our own social responsibility to our citizens. First of all, I'm talking about the social housing law. I call on Mr Ljajic, who has already been invited, I hope, for tomorrow's public hearing that we will organise in the Serbian Parliament, which will be organised by the Committee on the Reduction of Poverty and the Children's Rights Working Group. The president will also contribute to this round table. He's talking about the social housing law. Why does it matter? Because tomorrow there will be over 80 representatives of various organisations, the most endangered groups from all over Serbia, and because it is an opportunity for the state to talk to all of them, it is an opportunity to hear everything and come together to some of the problems. Why am I talking about social housing right now? Because it's one of the members of the European Social Charter that we haven't signed and we're not going to ratify, which is Article 31, so the right to a dignified residence for all of our citizens. Here's a chance that, by passing the social housing law, we'll be able to sign this Charter article, because, of course, states can later sign other members of the Charter. I also think it is important to pass a law on free legal aid, so that all citizens are equal in front of justice, as well as the law on mobbing, i.e. abuse at work. I also believe that in the work concerning children, which we have signed, not entirely, I think that a member of 1a has been left out to say that in the case of a family inadequately caring for a child of the state, establishing different institutions of support, to help the child. At this point, we did not include this member in signing and ratification, although we are all these others, because we are working on it, and as far as child abuse and neglect are concerned, and as regards their accommodation in foster families and institutions when they do not have adequate family ageing. So there is still room for us as a state to work on, both within the country and hopefully, one moment as a member of the EU. So, G 17 plus will, of course, support all these conventions and social charters because our country has already had many of these social rights, but we can never be sure if we will always have them, because we believe that they are possible and sustainable only in real conditions and conditions of real economic growth and that they must be sustainable in order to be able to be implemented at all and because G 17 plus believes in an inclusive, open, solid European society, believing that Serbia has the capacity to be a member of such a European family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19401	The word is Mr. Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19402	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you a question, Mr. President, even though I know you can't give an answer. Believe it or not, a lot of Serbian citizens are watching this transmission and is interested, especially in these parts of the session when it's not being transmitted directly, when this is going to be, is it at one, is it at two in the night? (President: Formerly. I know you can't answer that. I will not repeat the execution of our work in the Assembly, that at one point we have 38 points, contracts, laws and conventions. Not only is it not good for the public of work, but we send it when it comes to interstate agreements, and most of them are bad messages and those countries, because we do it in one day or in a few hours. However, I will try very constructively to take advantage of these few minutes that my MP group has. Because of the political morality I am trying to cultivate, as well as my political party New Serbia, I would first like to thank Minister Bradic for the answer to my question, which, truth beset several months ago, whether he agrees with the answer or not. I think such a relationship should be kept between the authorities, ministers and opposition MPs. No one's got the crown off their heads, and I didn't ask for it, and I didn't want to hear it from you. Of all these 38 draft laws, I would like to dedicate this discussion to the proposal for a law confirming a co-operation agreement in the area of culture between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro. At first, I must say that I would probably be more eager in my discussion if they were not signed here for the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vojislav Brajovic, then minister (this law came to the Assembly in November 2008, I think), and for the government of Montenegro Branislav Micunovic, minister. Honestly, I don't know if he's still a minister or whether he'll be a minister again. Since some important political things are happening during these three days and we have some visits in our country, and so we have a visit from the president of Montenegro, otherwise born Belgraden, Mr Filip Vujanovic, I would like you to ask him a few questions as a minister of culture (you may be taking part in some talks, in some delegations, you may not see it all on TV). For example, the issue of Article 4 of this Agreement, where it is said that the cultural exchange between Serbia and Montenegro implies, among other things, the exchange of books on a commercial and non-commercial basis. I'm interested in what language are those books we're about to receive here going to be written, are they in Montenegrin? If we receive these books in Montenegrin, what kind of message are we going to send to 62% of Montenegrin citizens who have declared to speak Serbian and are we in any way going to humiliate the Serbs in Montenegro if we through this cultural exchange... And it's good every cultural exchange, with every country in the world. If it were luck, there should be no agreement between Serbia and Montenegro, and since it is not luck, since it is a sovereign and independent state... So, in principle, I am not against this agreement, but I would like you, on behalf of us and the citizens of Serbia, because you are the culture minister, to ask this question to Mr. Vujanovic, so that it does not turn out that he came just because of the almost collapse of the tourist season, so that this would not be the real reason for coming to Serbia – I would have to remind you and all of the citizens of Serbia-Montenegro that we, or our Serbian citizens, built a good part of that Adriatic coast – and that it would not turn out to be Mr. Vujanovic coming on his feet to the vice president of America, and all that in our country, as well as some visits from another neighbouring country. Is it true that a documentary about the recognition of Kosovo by the state of Montenegro is being made, and will the film, if recorded, be exchanged with some documentary films from the Serbian state? I would also like you to ask Mr Vujanovic, since they have recognised the false state of Kosovo, and we see that at various political and cultural gatherings, the so-called government. Kosovo states own our monasteries and our sanctities and says they are Albanian monuments of culture, does Mr. Vujanovic acknowledge that the Decans are Albanian without being Serbian, if he recognises the state of Kosovo? I would have a lot more to ask you, especially as far as the State Secretary is concerned, I would ask him a lot of questions and I believe that 80% of Serbian citizens would ask him, but since I have called for political morality and culture and since he, in our rules of procedure, can't answer me, I won't do it this time. Maybe I'll get a chance at some rally or some media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19403	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19404	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministrys, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today as many as 38 conventions and agreements. Keeping in mind how much time, corresponding to the number of MPs, belongs to the SPS - JS Parliament Club, I will focus first and foremost on several proposed conventions and agreements in my today’s presentation. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Revised European Social Charter, as it is said, the Revised European Social Charter is the Council of Europe Convention and refers to the field of labour and social rights. It can be said that this is the most important convention after the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The legislative proposal certainly has enormous significance, especially today, in a situation where the effects of the economic crisis are increasingly felt in Serbia. As I have already said, it is one of the most important documents of the Council of Europe that regulates the existential rights of citizens, the right to social protection, housing, non-discrimination, education. The process of confirming the Revised European Social Charter, when it comes to institutions in Serbia, began in 2003. The adoption of this legislative proposal is Serbia's commitment when it comes to membership in the European Union. Otherwise, the Charter was revised in 1956 and in this revised form came into force in 1999; of course, by adopting parliaments in the member states, it replaced the original text of 1961. The revised European Social Charter so far has adopted 21 of the 47 members of the Council of Europe. When it comes to Serbia and confirming the Revised European Social Charter, this revision was supported, which is very important by representative trade unions and employers' associations in the Republic of Serbia. We find it extremely important that this legislative proposal has been agreed with the social partners. So essentially, the European Social Charter prescribes fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens and establish ways to enable and guarantee their respect. When we talk about rights, security, or social partners, I want to mention two more draft laws in this context. The proposal for a law on the validation of the International Labour Organisation Convention No 167 on safety and health in construction, which actually confirms the preventive measures that represent that minimum requirement to create safe and healthy working conditions. As regards national legislation, it can also lay down other measures at the construction site by law and sublaw, in order to prevent the operation of safe and sound working conditions. Another legislative proposal I would also like to mention is the proposal for a law confirming International Labour Organisation Convention number 187 on the promotional framework for safety and health at work. It is about promoting permanent improvements in safety and health at work, in order to prevent work injuries, occupational illnesses and work-related illnesses. After the adoption of this Convention, this obliges the State at all levels to promote and promote workers' rights to a safe and healthy environment, in accordance with national conditions and practices, and in agreement with the most representative employers and workers' organisations. Part of today's joint discussion is also part of the draft law on the confirmation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Optional Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I want to highlight the importance of these two proposals and a very important goal which is to achieve their adoption, which is to improve and ensure protection, full and equal respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms of persons with disabilities, as well as respect for their dignity. Also today, we have three extremely important financial agreements on the total value of around 225,000 euros. The proposal for a law on the confirmation of a 50m-euro financial agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank (A loan for municipal and regional infrastructure) provides for a 50m-euro loan intended for the realisation, i.e. the construction and modernisation of municipal and regional road infrastructure. It is about individual projects aimed at improving the traffic network in urban areas, restoring facilities intended for basic, secondary and more education, facilities intended for research, sports facilities, facilities intended for providing health services and social protection. It also refers to individual projects aimed at improving the efficiency of the government's work. The draft law confirming the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for Project Clinical Centres/B provides for a 70m-euro loan. The project itself, as said in today's debate, involves modernising and improving four clinical centres: in Novi Sad, Belgrade, Nis and Kragujevac. I would like to say that we support the objective set out in this legislative proposal – improving the provision of healthcare services. The third, very significant, financial agreement speaks of a financial loan for the development of the private and financial sector. It's a total of $150,000. The programme is implemented over a period of three years, starting in 2009, and is made available to Serbia for $50,000 each year. The objectives that are to be achieved are precisely defined: increasing macroeconomic stability, increasing potential investors, developing the legal system, which will guarantee legal certainty for those performing economic activity in Serbia, as well as increasing the productivity of state-owned enterprises and social enterprises. What is stated in the explanation of this agreement is the intention to achieve the objectives set, which is the continued growth of the gross social product, the increase in the share of investment in the gross social product from 24 to 26 to 28%, as well as the reduction of the unemployment rate from 18.9 to 11.9%. In fact, an increase in the share of investment envisions the creation of 200,000 new jobs. When it comes to this legal proposal, I have to agree with the recent exposure of one of my colleagues. There were words about the concept of privatisation. I agree we have a bad concept of privatisation. After this concept of privatisation, as it is today in Serbia, we have strikes that have been emerging during the past days. We've had two or three strikes, and I'm not going to name the strikes that we're talking about. What particular state, in the situation in which it is today, can it do after the implemented concept of privatisation? He can only communicate in conversations between whoever privatised the company or the company and those who strike, or the employees. On the other hand, it can cancel privatisation if the person who privatised the company does not meet the requirements. I agree, the bad concept of privatisation, but I really want to believe the intentions that are highlighted in the draft of this law. The intentions that are to be achieved are defined, the goals that are to be achieved are also defined, but what is not defined in this proposal are the activities that will be taken to achieve the intentions and objectives. It is said, in a certain way, that it must not be invested, but, on the other hand, it is not said what to invest in. I must refer to one sentence: "The achievement of the planned objectives will also be realised through the creation and application of the privatisation strategy of other financial institutions that are mostly owned by the borrower, or the state of Serbia, in order to reduce the participation of the borrower, i.e. the state of Serbia in the financial sector from the current 17.29 to 10% in 2010 when it comes to banks, and the reduction of participation from the current 34% to 30% in 2010 when it comes to insurance companies. "This sentence really needs to be imagined. Unfortunately, we today in Serbia, apart from alleged domestic and domestic banks such as the Commercial Bank and the AIK Bank, do not have a domicillary bank that has independence in lending. We have a number of exposures, a number of representations, financial resources leaving Serbia, but these exposures and representations do not have the independence to lend what is necessary at this time in Serbia, which is to credit the economy. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19405	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word is Boris Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19406	I would now draw attention to the already mentioned laws that include additional borrowings by the Republic of Serbia and our citizens. As I said, there is first a bill on the confirmation of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank (A loan for municipal and regional infrastructure), where the additional borrowing of our citizens is 50m euros. After that, there is a law confirming the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for Project Clinical Centres/B, where our citizens are in charge of an additional 70m euros. Finally, there is a Bill on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Programme for the Development of the Private and Financial Sector) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is charged by our citizens with an additional 34,900,000 euros. I'd like to show you on a specific case what it means for a country when it's in debt beyond a certain limit, beyond a certain rational measure. Our external debt has now exceeded 30 billion euros. We'll see how Argentina went. At the time of the military dictatorship in Argentina, the country's external debt increased 5.5 times. As you know, dictatorial regimes in Latin America supported and organized the United States. The International Monetary Fund has planned and advised generals, even a senior official of this organisation, Mr Dante Simon, was appointed to the Argentine Central Bank. Under international law, a debt made by a dictatorial regime is considered a dubious, dubious claim, and the state is not obliged to repay it. The risk of investment in a country that has an autocratic regime or which has a dictatorial regime is borne by one who invests. However, following the establishment of democracy in Argentina in 1985, the IMF pressured President Raul Alfonse to recognise the debt. Although the president had the legal basis to reject the Fund's request, he accepted their condition. The contract recognised a reduced debt. Something similar happened with recognition of the old Yugoslavia's debt, in terms of Serbia and Yugoslavia. It's the London and Paris Club. So, you were talking, the regime was saying that it had written off 35% of the debt, and he actually recognized most of that debt, two-thirds of the debt, although he didn't have to pay it back by international law, because it was made in the time of the dictatorial regime, and in the west, the rule that communism was a kind of totalitarian system and dictatorship. Today, citizens of the Republic of Serbia pay debts for which, by international law, they would not have to pay a single dinar. As I said, Serbia's external debt exceeded $30 billion, although it was $12.3 billion in 2003, and was projected to be $10.5 billion in 2010. In such conditions, we additionally owe ourselves to international financial institutions, which are in fact so conceiving loans that the state that is targeted at the end cannot even return them. We'll also see it on a specific case in, let's say, the confessions of people who worked for the World Bank and the IMF. Serbian citizens, for example, were in charge of 311.9 billion dinars last August, which means that citizens' debt increased by 5.8% compared to the end of last year. These are indicators of the Serbian Banks Association. What leads to uncontrollable borrowing is best seen in the case of South America and the famous 2001 Argentine crisis. IMF and World Bank creditors in some countries, such as Haiti, Peru, the Dominican Republic, provided themselves with the right to collect taxes and taxes, of course, when these countries could no longer repay loans, to return interest. In other cases (Mexico) exploited major export resources, where oil revenues went through New York bank accounts controlled by the federal reserves of the United States. I don't know if you know it, but the Federal Reserve system is the U.S. Central Bank and it's private. She was privatized in 1913 by the so-called The Federal Reserve Act, and according to specific data, the American state went bankrupt in 1933. She was forced to reroute certain tax revenues to a federal reserve system. Today, the system of federal reserves is a private institution, which, by its own free will, creates monetary policy in the United States, and these are facts. Creditors of these international financial institutions have often imposed their legal competence in resolving disputes, and they have not been too far away from military intervention to realise their claims. From 1980 to 2000, private creditors charged from Latin America $192 billion more than the amount they lent her. In 1999 and 2000, the Latin American countries paid $86.2 billion more than they borrowed. These are the analyses from the French papers "Mond" and "Mond Diplomatic." The International Monetary Fund made 71.3 billion dollars available to Argentina between 1980 and 2000, while it returned $86.7 billion. So the IMF made a profit of 15.4 billion. From 1982 to 2000, Latin America paid all its creditors an incredible sum of $1,450 billion, four times its debt of 1982! In 2004, the Argentine Foreign Debt was 130 billion dollars, although Argentina paid more than $200 billion over 25 years. In July 2000, the authority of the Argentinean court, in a ruling based on 195 pages, exposed the illegal nature of the debt and the guilt of the IMF and the US Federal Reserve system due to the country's poverty. A great deal of assistance in this process, the IMF and the US Federal Reserve system, have been given to new-compromised Argentine capitalists, tycoon. It's a similar situation for us today, as we can see. Some of the South American countries have managed to preserve their economy. The question is, how? During the 1930s, 14 countries suspended debt payments to these international financial institutions, such as the IMF. Among the great debtors, Argentina alone paid the debts without interruption. Following the IMF's unspeakable advice, she tied her currency to a dollar. These solutions soon led Argentina to a beggar stick and known major economic crises, while countries such as Brazil and Mexico, which cut off payments to foreign creditors and global financial organisations, went significantly better. No wonder that because of this, the director of the list "Lemond diplomat" Injasio Ramon concludes that the IMF, World Bank and World Trade Organisation that imposes a profit cult are causing the ecological devastation of various parts of the planet. I would now draw attention to an interview published in the famous Serbian list of "Geopoliticals". 2. In 2008. It's about a former World Bank expert who wrote a book called "Recognition of an Economic Murderer". You'll see, he's carrying some simple amazing stuff. I think it will be interesting both for the citizens and for the representatives of the government and for our MPs in the National Assembly to hear this. The former most successful "economic killer", "economic hitman", i.e. John Perkins summed up his rich professional experience in 2004 by publishing a fascinating book "Recognition of an economic hit man", which is also a day-to-day public turn. John Perkins finished his studies for the executive, manager of a Boston University company and soon became interesting as the appropriate potential for certain political and economic and security structures, such as the National Security Agency. Otherwise, when it comes to the U.S. security system, it should be mentioned that, according to their official data, of the 60 billion that belongs to the US security services budget, 80% of the waste on military security services. So a certain company called Main, a small company that was a consultant at the World Bank, decided to hire Mr. Perkins. During the night, he became some kind of secret agent ex-officio, an economically-paid killer, who has shown excellently that he knows how to do his job, because he has survived for many years at the heart of sophisticated economic manipulations at international level. It was working to create a series of states economically dependent on the United States, which would have provided itself with a regular way to exploit resources. It was billions of dollars that were circulating and that meant the beginning for one, and for the other end. Perkins notes in his book: "In countries such as Ecuador and Nigeria or Indonesia, we dress as teachers or shop owners, in Washington and Paris we look like government officials or bankers, we act modestly and on average, visit projects and visit poor villages, preach altruism, humanitarianism and talk to local newspapers about the benefits that our humanitarian projects will bring." So he speaks as an expert at the World Bank. "The conference tables and government committees are covered with tables and high budgets, and at Harvard School of Economics we are giving lectures on the miraculous wonders of the macro-economy. We're here all the time and we're open. Yet, at the very least, that's how we introduce ourselves, and that's how we're accepted. That's how this world works." His world includes the IMF and the World Bank, which and how they played a significant role in the new economic problem of the world, and therefore John Perkins believes that only a unique response from the endangered developing countries can break the ring of this new world empire without mercy. The former "economic killer" John Perkins, without fear of the rematch of the jackal, is a hit man who's in the service of the business mafia, with pleasure to raise his conscience and speak openly of these problems. So, he says, "I was recruited by the National Agency for Security of the NSA, and I ended up working as an economist at a private consulting firm, where I was trained as an economically paid "killer". Today, "economic killers" and "jackals", hit men, usually work for private companies, not directly for the National Security Agency or the CIA. I have already mentioned how the World Bank and its sister organisations function throughout this story, but it should be added that once the country is in charge, the IMF offers them additional financial assistance; in a sense it is a reduction in debt, but only when the state or state agree to sell their goods and other resources to foreign companies and to privatise the public sector. As a result, these countries fall under the world empire, i.e. "under U.S. Domination." So Mr. John Perkins specifically mentioned in his 2004 book "Recognition of an Economic Killer", as an official of the World Bank, the IMF, that the task of experts from these international financial institutions was to place loans in third-world countries above all, with extremely high interest rates, that these countries could not repay these loans and ultimately take over natural resources from them or to place certain budget revenues directly towards the IMF and the World Bank. According to some data, after the debt itself by the US state, a negative debt to the Federal Reserve System in 1933, 30% of budget revenues were placed in third-world countries and huge interest rates were taken for those rankings, so I think that it really needs to work closely with the IMF, with the World Bank. Government representatives should study this and should certainly read this book, because it was written by a man who was a senior official of the World Bank and IMF expert team, and to understand the problems that our citizens may face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19407	Thank you, Mr. Alexic. The word is made by the People's Messenger of Gordan Rajkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19408	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers and members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this united debate, I will keep my attention at the proposal for a law on ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the accompanying Option Protocol. Why is this document important for the world and for Serbia? There's already been talk of living in the world about 650,000 people with disabilities, but if you add their family members to it, then you come up with an amazing figure of two billion people who live with disabilities every day. In every country in the world, people with disabilities live on the margins of society, deprived of basic life experiences. Their hopes that one day they will go to school, get a job, have a home, start a family, raise their children, vote or participate in social life are very small. For the vast majority of people with disabilities in the world, public facilities, shops, traffic, as well as information, are completely out of reach. In fact, people with disabilities make up the largest and most endangered minority in the world. Twenty percent of the poorest people in the world make up people with disabilities, 98% of children with disabilities in developing countries don't go to school, and 30% of children living on the street belong to children with disabilities. The rate of literacy of adults with disabilities ranges around 30 and sometimes less. There were a lot of words about the difficult situation of people with disabilities in Serbia. Fortunately, the last few days, or weeks, and many MPs in this assembly have talked about when we discussed legal rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities, so I am not going to talk about it right now. The Convention therefore represents, in fact, the response of the international community to the long history of discrimination, exclusion and dehumanisation of persons with disabilities. The efforts of the United Nations to change this situation have lasted for 35 years, since 1971, when the first Declaration on the Rights of mentally retarded persons was adopted, through the World Programme of Action for Persons with Disabilities in 1982 and the Standard Rules for Equalisation of the opportunities provided to these persons in 1992, until 2006 when the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was finally adopted. This Convention is the first international binding document relating to persons with disabilities and is in fact a historical and innovative document, because with a holistic and comprehensive approach it speaks of persons with disabilities, but also members of their families. In the day when the Convention was adopted in the United Nations, the Secretary General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, said: "Today promises to become the dawn of a new era, a new era in which persons with disabilities will no longer have to endure discriminatory behaviours and attitudes, which have been allowed too long. "The convention, as has already been said, is open to ratification and signing in March 2007. What the curiosity is about is that on that day more than 80 countries in New York signed this document, which is the largest number of countries that ever signed a UN document in the same day, which is, of course, about its significance. Serbia signed the Convention and the Action Protocol, as said in December 2007, since more than three years ago it actively participated in its creation and adoption. We can be proud that Serbia was one of the few countries that as its representative and expert in the Ad hoc committee had a person with disabilities. The principles on which this document is based are dignity, decision making on your own life and the independence of people with disabilities, non-discrimination, full participation in all areas of social life and acceptance and respect for disability as part of human diversity and, of course, equal opportunities for all. What will this convention mean for people with disabilities in Serbia? As has already been said, it does not create new rights, but defines mechanisms for the equal use of already adopted general civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights. This ratification of Serbia's states will undertake to ensure full achievement of all human rights and fundamental freedoms of disabled people and to ensure the consultation and active participation of disabled people in this process. The Convention covers a series of rights: the right to access justice; protection against violence, abuse and exploitation; participation in political life; the right to education, health care, labour and employment and social security. Although there are special UN documents on women's and children's rights, the convention also particularly regulates the position of women and children with disabilities as highly and marginalised groups. Of course, it is already said that the ratification of the Convention to Serbia is about to bring many regulations into line. To our great satisfaction, in the last few years our country has made a lot of efforts to regulate our legislation in accordance with this Convention. And the documents that have been delivered have already been mentioned, but of course we have a harmonisation of education laws, health insurance and social protection, and possibly the interpretation of the terms set out in Article 12. The Convention (what Mr Meho Omerovic spoke of) on legal capacity. It is actually a term that is not known in our legislation and that should be brought into contact with business ability, which is one important question that has been said a lot about here a dozen days ago. I think it is important as follows: bringing regulations in line with the provisions of the Convention does not only mean targeted changes in certain laws that always seem to be the closest to people with disabilities, such as education, health and social protection. I think it is our role as MPs to check in the adoption of every new regulation whether its provisions create obstacles to the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities and whether it is necessary to adopt additional measures that will enable them to exercise those rights, as we have recently done in the adoption of the Law on Public Procurement by introducing accessibility standards and, as I believe, doing in the upcoming debate on traffic safety law. Of course, when the Convention of Change is ratified in the life of people with disabilities, unfortunately, it will not occur overnight. The ratification of the Convention will in fact only intensify one long process of equating opportunities, which will have to happen gradually, with the definition of new measures that the State will take to ensure the application of the Convention, of course in accordance with its resources available. I sincerely hope that some of these new measures will be able to see reflected in the 2010 draft budget, because unless we provide funds for all our beautiful desires and intentions, it will really be just a letter on paper. In the end, I'd like to remind you that disability is no one's free choice. Invalidity can happen to any man. The struggle of persons with disabilities for their rights is always so, is part of the struggle for the personal survival of every other citizen. Therefore, ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is not only relevant to us as persons with disabilities. By ratifying this Convention and the Option Protocol, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will take a step further in creating conditions for the exercise of the rights of all its citizens. In the voting day, of course, the MPs of the G17 Group will vote for the adoption of the draft law on ratification of the Convention and of the option protocol. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19409	I thank Mrs. Rajkov. The word is by MP Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19410	Dear People's MPs, the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Variety of Cultural Expressions, which is one of the 38 points of the agenda in a united debate, could be a strong legal instrument for political and social reforms in the field of culture, provided that we already pass our own laws once. It was adopted in 2005 at the UNESCO General Meeting and is the first international binding agreement in the field of culture. UNESCO's revised Convention on the diversity of cultural expressions seeks to develop awareness of culture as a bearer of identity, value and meaning; it seeks to achieve the influence of culture on sustainable cultural development programmes, to link culture with economy and develop cultural industries; it advocates the creation of an international legislative framework and international solidarity in the area of culture; it provides for the definition of a cultural development strategy; it recommends harmonisation of cultural policies of signatories countries. We have nothing to harmonize because the laws on culture don't come to our agenda. Furthermore, it is at risk of marginalising small and economically weak countries, which Serbia is, and such a threat to Serbian culture is seriously threatening. The Convention on the diversity of cultural expressions recognises the sovereign right of states to apply their own cultural policy. Serbia does not have its own or any other recognizable cultural policy. What is very important, the Convention on the diversity of cultural expressions resists economic liberalisation in culture. Simply put, the binding regulation is that culture must not be left exclusively to a free market game, but national cultures must protect themselves from economic globalisation. The Convention on the diversity of cultural expressions also envisioned the establishment of a cultural diversity development fund, which will pool voluntary contributions, the funds of the UNESCO General Conference, gifts, legislation of signatories countries, as well as the funds of other UN organisations and programmes, not only UNESCO. The money of this fund has an intergovernmental committee, which elects and controls the assembly of foreign signatories. All this is very positive and Serbia needs it. It's not good that Serbia has nothing to go out with in front of UNESCO. We are not developing cultural industries, which, according to the UNESCO Convention, would not only be within the World Trade Organisation's authority, but also UNESCO. The congregation procedure has not yet been announced for years by the law on culture, so that we can bring it into line with the standards contained in the Convention that is before us today. We do not respect even the positive laws on culture, the ones we have and which undoubtedly require improvement. Until we get new and better, we should stick to them, which we don't. We solve problems in culture where they leak or, more specifically, we don't solve them. For us, cultural policy issues are not a function of development and poverty reduction. Our national cultural institutions are almost all shut down, failing or tavors. Our laws do not promote partnership between the public and private sectors, and we generally experience international exchange in culture as going to a certain festival or fair. It is a far distant path for Serbia to implement the principles contained in the UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Variety of Cultural Expressions. However, if by adopting this convention we will take at least the first step on that path, and that is something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19411	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Konstantin Samofalov. Here you go. He's not here. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word. Here you go. There's six and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19412	Thank you, Madam President. Gentlemen Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today first I must congratulate Madam President, this is indeed a record - and so far we have brought together a number of different points that are in no way related to each other, but today for the first time we have 38 different conventions which, by their own content, can in no way be undermined under this manner of exposure, to discuss them unitedly. These are so different areas, each of these conventions is extremely important in its area, and each of us that covers a particular area feels that it should be spoken of and that the public knows enough about it. After 38 dots, today we're discussing all 38 in this way. My second advantage tonight is that I speak in front of a half-empty (more empty than half-empty) gym, which has no direct television transmission, but, as the president will answer later, will be delayed transmission so that all those citizens of Serbia who suffer from insomnia will be able to watch me talk about environmentality. What's also important, and what's to say, is that the minister from the area to which I want to talk about the convention, which is ecology, is not here today in the O.R. That's all my advantages. I will try to say a few very important things about the Convention on Cross-border Effects of Industrial Accidents in this short time. It is very important that this convention is in front of us today, because we have already touched the ground that this Convention covers, in fact, those famous chemical accidents, or accidents with very dangerous substances in the process of production, storage, transfer, transport and use of these substances. It is also important to say that we have a problem, like the country, and with petrochemicals, both with the chemical industry and with the oil industry. These are also very dangerous resources, and given our proverbial stupidity, i.e. irresponsibility, and since we have outdated equipment, in which no one is obviously willing to invest, we have a major problem with the possibility of such accidents. Unfortunately, what I still want to talk about, and it concerns exactly how we can be affected by accidents from our environment, are nuclear power plants. Although Serbia has a moratorium that by 2015 it cannot build any nuclear power plant (the reasons for this are different, and one of them is a lack of space to store nuclear material), and although we do not have a nuclear power plant, in a 600km environment we have four such nuclear power plants. One of them is famous, it is the famous Bulgarian Kozloduy; since 1992, Bulgaria has been asked to close it and close the first four reactors, so units 1, 2, 3 and 4. Bulgaria has on several occasions done so that the closure of individual reactors 1 and 2 - 1992, in 1999, all four, and then it was modernising some of these reactors. If we're going to be honest, the condition for Bulgaria to enter the EU was to close all four reactors. Meanwhile, she's made two new two, five and six, which are supposed to be modernized, and they're working today. You all know how much trouble we've had with Chernobyl. We've had a lot of problems, believe me, with this Kozlodu. We now have information that in our environment Albania will build four other such nuclear power plants; we have a problem with Croatia, which at the border with Serbia, in Erdu, wants to build a nuclear power plant, so signing this convention is actually the need to protect Serbia from its neighbours who are quite irresponsiblely able to access all of this. This is a very important story also because we as a country are bombarded with poor uranium, and this also has cross-border effects. Mr. Dragan Shormaz of my DSS Group today spoke extremely well about when he spoke about signing conventions that you've been pushing like cowards' eggs to us. And, precisely because today we will not talk about them in an open way, about each of these conventions, citizens have no idea that this very cowardly egg should be placed in Serbia and that Serbia is thus signing its capitulation. I'm afraid if we don't talk about this convention today that I'm talking about, about a cross-border accident, we're really not even gonna know our own cowardly egg to call our real name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19413	The list also includes the People's MP, Mrs Miroslav Pejica, and then Mrs Kolundzija.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19414	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers and other members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this united debate today, I will talk about the draft law confirming the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "A loan for municipal and regional infrastructure". I believe that the verification of this treaty by our Parliament will greatly contribute to the process of even regional development. This discusses a 50m-euro loan between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, which is dedicated to the completion of priority projects of local self-government across Serbia. This would be an incentive for municipalities, cities and regions under the conditions of the global economic crisis. As someone who performs the post of deputy speaker of the Assembly, I am very well aware of the problems faced by local self - government in the face of the world’s first wave of economic crisis. By the fact that economic operators in municipalities and cities where they operate have reduced their business activities, local budget filling has ceased to take place with a determined and envisaged dynamics. In addition, we all know well that the rebalance of the Republic of Serbia's budget provides for a significant reduction in the transfer funds for local self-government. I'm saying all of this because the specificity of this loan is precisely in support of those projects that are set as a priority by local authorities' authorities. However, given the current circumstances, the effects and consequences of the global economic crisis do not currently allow for the continuation of their funding. The advantage of this project lies not only in the financial benefits it provides, but in the very definition to which it can be realised. I list only some of them: improving and modernising the transport network in order to increase safety; improving the quality and functionality of the facilities of all levels of education, facilities intended for research and public sports facilities; building and rebuilding facilities for the provision of health and social services; rebuilding and protecting cultural and historical facilities, which is also the promotion of tourism in the area. As a condition for funding a local self-government project, it is envisaged to be launched in 2008 or later, with the obligation to be completed by 2012. As for the financial benefits of this loan, they are obvious because the annual interest rate is minimal. The 50m-euro debt is not fixed, which means that the Republic of Serbia can, on the one hand, ask for an increase in the amount above this amount if this parliament decides, while on the other hand, the final amount is not binding i.e. There are no consequences if, for any reason, the Republic of Serbia wants to come out of lending the total or partial amount. In addition, the payment of the tranche of the credit to the Republic of Serbia may be prematurely managed at the rate of fixed interest rate, as provided for by the mechanism set out in Article 4.03. Otherwise, the duration of the loan is 20 years, starting from five years, and as a credit promoter, the Ministry of the National Investment Plan, whose authorities will adapt to the conditions and standards laid down by the European Investment Bank, is envisaged. The adaptation of the Ministry of the NIP is carried out according to the standards for the granting of loans prescribed by the Bank, as regards the usefulness of a project and various factors to which special attention must be paid. First of all, the project and the sub-projects must be in the public interest, and besides the economic and social sides, they involve taking care of human health, public safety, as well as the need to preserve the environment. In addition to these factors affecting obtaining conditions for the approval of projects at local level, the NIP ministry will also comply with a series of procedures with EU standards. Also, procurement procedures will be in line with EU and European Investment Bank policies through open international tenders. As long as the loan is not fully paid, the Republic of Serbia is in charge of maintaining projects and its parts in order to maintain it in good condition. Control and review will be carried out by authorised persons outside the European Investment Bank. Since these are very strict criteria set out in EU laws and practices, I believe that projects of the highest importance for development and the social interest of local environments interested in this type of credit financing will indeed be financed. As is said, this loan is financing all the projects already start in 2008. This can bring great help to all local self-governments in the management of existing assets from fixed sources by providing funding provided for by this law, i.e. by borrowing, will be able to shift their own funds into investment of projects of no less importance for their environment, whose purpose is not on the list covered by this credit. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the voting day, the G17 parliamentary club will support and vote in favour of the bill on the confirmation of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "Land for Municipal and Regional Infrastructure" and, of course, for all those conventions, contracts and protocols that are now on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19415	Thank you. The right to speak, arising from Article 93. Rules of Procedure, she didn't use Mrs. Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19416	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers and members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the ZES Parliamentary Group will vote on all these laws ratifying international conventions, agreements and protocols. I just want to remind you that many of these conventions or agreements have been made by other, previous governments. Many of these acts show that some of these agreements or conventions have been accepted by the government of the SCG state union. So, for us, it is a matter of the seriousness of the state, among other things, to show that the international agreements, agreements or conventions adopted by the previous government of those governments that are coming after the Parliament's submission to ratification, and it is essential for us that all that the previous governments have signed as soon as possible be ratified. We can talk about a lot of ratifications being united at this session, but I want to say that in some parliaments there are no ratifications and no debates, so it's a question of understanding what a ratification of an agreement or some convention is. At the same time, we know that ratifications have also been carried out without debate in this parliament at the time of the state union. I just want to say, although I understand the need of some MPs to speak specifically about some of these laws, that the need to do this job is done as soon as possible to bring us into a situation like this together. Having in mind that no one has actually challenged any of these laws, that no one has shown any unwillingness to confirm these laws in the National Assembly, I think that this objection has been made more than the fact that there was no time to discuss them enough. We can, as parliament, establish rules on how international agreements and conventions are ratified, and I think that's also the topic we're going to discuss together, but it's important for this Parliament to do these ratifications as soon as possible and thus show that the state is serious. Some agreements and conventions have been signed by the government years ago and have not yet been ratified in parliament; we need to do so as soon as possible and thus demonstrate the state's relationship to these agreements and documents. I want to say that it is very important for us that many of these acts stem from Serbia's membership in international organisations, the Council of Europe, UNESCO etc. Also, many of these acts are part of Serbia's partnership with the EU, and in this sense they have special importance for us, and any quick objection is acceptable to us if this means that Serbia will move faster towards the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19417	Thank you, Mrs. Kolundjia. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled and uniform search, do they want a word from someone who has not used his right under Article 93? The word is Mr. Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19418	I would ask you, Madam President, to use this as a right to replication, if you so assess it and interpret it, because obviously the presentation of the previous speaker, Mrs Colundgeia, was unequivocally referring to the content of my presentation when I volunteered to speak in principle of all these drafts of the law. Let me just have one sentence, let me explain, and you'll evaluate, and then I'll back off if I'm wrong. [[President: You have no right to a replica, there was nothing offensive.]] In fact, there were words from Mrs. Kolundji that I, not myself, was any of the previous speakers, in which I recognized myself, that we were talking about the laws being merged and that I couldn't argue, etc. Because there's a lot of them on the agenda. That was the central place of my speech. (President: I think you have unfounded yourself. Then let me take advantage of my time. What we just heard, and if it hadn't been for all that was heard before, and it wasn't an illusion of previous exposure, it's mostly correct. It is indeed about conventions that have come to the agenda of the National Assembly, that is, the ratification of these conventions which were not only concluded by this government but also by some previous governments, and not only by one, but by some long before, when there was a SCG state union, and even when there was an SRJ. Of course, a question can always be asked why they are not on time and were put on the agenda in this issue. It's something that can be discussed publicly, each bearing part of the responsibility for it. They are, however, here today. What individual DSS MPs have been saying about certain topics, that is, about certain ratification proposals, is because they have been defined to speak for several minutes about one topic in order to succeed in a concentrated and valid manner, as they have learned, how much knowledge they have allowed and time at their disposal, to shed light on what is behind such a topic and what would be interesting for the citizens to hear. I know that we have done a number of ratifications in parliament without any debate, I know that it is easier and faster, but it is unthinkable that when an objection is made that stands, which cannot be brought down, against which nothing can be held, and this is a requirement for a comprehensive discussion of each of these topics, because each of these issues is significant, then such an observation is not given in a way that really offends the dignity of this home, not only in the way it is spoken, but in the way it is done. In the first part of my presentation, I made it clear that it is not the Government of the Republic of Serbia – there are people here who gladly agreed to be victims of this, but it is clear that there are those who did not come today, who wisely do not want to be victims – this is solely the responsibility of the ruling coalition in the Serbian Parliament, no one else. If they've been subdued by an executive, that's another question. This is what we see. We can see that someone's thinking that seven-eight social areas that cover ratifications connect to 38 points of the agenda! But check the archives, never, in letters and numbers, ever, zero times, the Democratic Party of Serbia did so in that way. Therefore, if we have not done so, we have the right to comment. I can tell you that it's not very convenient, but it's no longer convenient to the one who did it but to me, it's fun to me, that in any way, even with mild illusions, they make objections to our remarks. Our remark stands firm as a granite rock and it is impenetrable, Mrs. Kolundjia. And whether we've been discussing all ratifications so far or not, it could be one kind of gender argument for a television show, or it could be fun for one or another constituency. But I'm absolutely right. You can't argue with that. So much for that. About what we could say so far in the principle debate, we said. It's simple, there's no time for anything else, which I'm very sorry about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19419	Thank you. Before I conclude a joint principle and uniform search, do the representatives want to give the final word, in accordance with Article 144. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Mr. Rasim Ljajic, first of all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19420	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, let me thank you for today's debate, regardless of what Mr. Aligrudic says we're less smart because we came here. I must say that I have not long since attended a more comprehensive discussion on two documents, in this case on the Revised European Social Charter and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, regardless of whether this debate came from the left or right. Anyway, I just want to point out a few things that may not have been apostrophe and they deserve it because of the importance of these conventions. First of all, the Revised European Social Charter represents, following the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, the most significant SE document. We were obliged to sign the convention first within two years of joining the SE, and then to ratify it as soon as possible. With this act, we fully fulfil our obligation to the SE, and on the other hand, this is one of our obligations in the EU accession process. Thus, this charter, the content of the Charter, becomes an integral part of the internal legal order and thus create a broader basis for further improving labour, economic and social rights. I would especially like to point out that in selecting the members of this charter that were subject to ratification, we had the full consent of all the social partners and that we did not come easily to the agreed text of this charter. As for the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, I would just like to briefly mention that today we have ratified the so-called "Immunity". The option protocol with this convention. It has not only symbolic but also practical importance, for individuals and groups are entitled to seek satisfaction, or protection in the event of breach of certain provisions of this Convention, which has not been the case so far. This Convention represents another cube in the mosaic that we are making to improve the position of persons with disabilities. After the adoption of several important laws, this convention was something that was missing, and thus we completed this legal framework. I believe we'll all agree that we've crossed one easier part of the job, in terms of ratification of both conventions, or charters. It remains, as always with us, the hard part, which is the practical and full implementation of these provisions. Otherwise, "we've painted free", if this remains the papers we can wave and be proud of in front of the international community, if the provisions of these conventions are not fully applied in everyday life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19421	Thank you, Mr. Ljajic. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19422	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, three international conventions that represent systemic reform in culture and the media are ahead of you. These are: the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Variety of Cultural Expressions (UNESCO Convention), the Convention on the Protection of Cultural Archaeological Heritage of SE and the European Convention on Transboundary TV SE. For this last convention, I'd say it's kind of historic, because it's already been in the process of two congregations. One was the Serbia-Montenegro Community Assembly. Meanwhile, this congregation has ceased to exist, as this community has ceased to exist. The second assembly was in the previous session and before the adoption of this Convention, the Assembly was disbanded and the opportunity to adopt this Convention in 2007. It is a very good opportunity for this convention to be adopted at one of the next meetings of the Assembly because it will make it possible in a high-quality way to broadcast broadcasting programmes in all countries of Europe, there will be no more boundaries for television and there will be one single European market. I thank the MPs, Mr Markicevic and Mrs Stojanovic, for the very relevant issues they had in relation to the discussion, just as these conventions were proposed by the Ministry of Culture and Media. The questions addressed to President Vujanovic are certainly not issues addressed by the Ministry of Culture. Since some topics are being touched, just about the documents present here, I will say that in the law on cultural co-operation between Serbia and Montenegro there is no exchange of films, so the issue of the exchange of controversial films will not come to the Ministry of Culture. What's also important, and it's asked as a question, is I'm a forger about the Decani monastery. The Decani monastery is not an Albanian cultural monument, therefore, we cannot talk about it with President Vujanovic either. What matters is exactly what Mrs. Stojanovic was talking about. Of course, the problems of the culture development strategy in the coming period are very important to us, precisely because many things have been missed in the previous period. She mentioned an important document, a draft law on culture, adopted last week at a cabinet session, passed on to the Assembly; it was adopted at the government on 14 May and I expect it to be in the assembly procedure. With a constructive debate, it could be the subject of one of our future joint meetings here in the Assembly. As to what is mentioned as an important programme policy or cultural policy of the Ministry of Culture, or the problems that exist in culture, I would agree with most remarks, with the Ministry of Culture making important efforts at this time to position some strategic directions. The issue of presenting Serbia's culture in the world, the issue of representing the world in Serbia, but at the same time active decentralisation in Serbia's culture through the Serbia project in Serbia -- these are some of the strategic directions that are the priorities of the Culture Ministry. I am sure that with this document it will be strengthened and designed, and through the activities of the National Council in culture, which will represent one important organ and which will create and influence the creation of cultural policy, but also other measures that will be launched in the meantime and I am sure that we will have a much stronger and better basis for the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-18-0.u19423	Thank you. I am concluding a joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws under points 20 - 57 of the agenda. Since we have conducted a joint principle and uniform search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft laws in principle and in general. We'll continue work tomorrow at ten o'clock. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the sixth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 115 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request an explanation or notice, in accordance with Article 235? Here you go. (No) Mr. Shormaz answered first, but you didn't register. Here, you have a word.
