ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20708	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on reproductive wood material. The objective of this amendment is to prevent the destruction of domestic, indigenous species of forest trees, and this is exactly what will happen, by adding new provisions in the EU Regulation to fully implement regulations in the area of production and transport of forest reproductive material. Serbia will seem to have to make sure in the future that it will even forestify its naked, what forest ingredients will look like, which kinds of trees will spread in the future in the areas of the Republic of Serbia. As we set out to follow the EU directive, we have now reached the Serbian forests. And a law that will fully comply with EU directives that Serbian forestry, that is, part of waste production, or the production of reproductive material. The plantation production is slowly drowning in standards that are the basis for growing forests in the EU. The question is whether this does not endanger domestic species, which occupy the most percentage area in Serbia's forests? Next to this logic, we should expect a forest law and some new approach to growing, raising and exploiting forests, probably by modeling the EU. I use this opportunity to ask Mr. Minister, as authorised minister – when will Serbia finally return the monastery forests, by law and restitution, to the monastery in Ravanica?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20709	National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Would you like a word, Mr. Buha? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20710	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have referred on behalf of the SRS amendment to Article 5, paragraph 2, to replace the word "three" with the word "five", with the reason that it is necessary to increase the number of breeders that professionals, or graduate forestry engineers, will be able to process, in terms of the production of forest reproductive material. The government's reasoning is that a certain analysis has been made and that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is proposing, based on this analysis, to keep it at the number "three". Unbound for this amendment, as the prime minister of Republika Srpska in persecution, I must stress certain measures and activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that represent discriminatory measures that are being passed. It is, in fact, a law on agricultural land that the Croatian Parliament passed last year in the seventh month, in the summer period, and Croatians do so in the summer months, when public and international public attention is far less than usual. In those moments, Croats pass certain laws that are discriminatory. It is, given the times, only in one sentence, that it is about taking away the right to private property - land, forest land and meadows, pastures, etc. I asked the government a question, I didn't get an answer, so I'm talking to the minister, to see what the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has done to reduce the discriminatory measures conducted by the Croatian state towards Serbs refugees from the Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20711	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20712	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I submit an amendment to Article 9(1) where the word "manufacturer" is replaced by the words "authorised person by the ministry". In the explanation of the promoter, i.e. the ministry of competent, our amendment is not accepted, because in this way the responsibility and quality of the cuttings and seedlings in production and transport is transferred from the country to the manufacturer, thus increasing the producer's awareness of the need to produce quality reproductive material. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope you'll agree that what the promoter says is not logical, that the manufacturer is doing the quality of the cuttings and seedlings he's making himself. It is logical that this quality control and quality determination is carried out by the competent ministry. I think it's illogically set up by the competent ministry, because the question is, if we want to show confidence to manufacturers, why don't we tell them to set the price of their products, but that's what the state tells them to do. I propose to accept this amendment that I have submitted before the SRS, where the word – the manufacturer is replaced by the words – is authorized by the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20713	Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Please, you have to sign up if you want a word. This technology is pretty simple. Please don't throw it away, Mr. Todorovic. Here you go, Mr. Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20714	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on reproductive material of the forest trees. Amendment: Article 10th position 1st word - the minister is replaced by the word - the ministry. The explanation, this is why -- the Serbian Radical Party believes that the ministry, rather than the minister, is in charge of doing business in this work cycle. This is the principled attitude of the SRS. In this way, we will release the Minister of Excessive Obligations. We think the ministry is so wide that there's room for more people to be employed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20715	. I have a monitor to see if anyone's applying for a word while I'm reading the amendment, so please sign up in case you want an amendment debate. Mr. Todorovic, you wanted a word, a violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20716	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dejanovic, you should respect Rule 27 of this Rules of Procedure. What you've already said in advance to monitor the monitor is mildly said funny. How can someone check in while you're reading? I guess you should read it, say who's the applicant of the amendment, and only afterwards can anyone who submitted the amendment apply. You do it all in the race, because you seem to have a passing time when you have to finish what you have to do and you are at all interested in whether or not a debate is being held in the Assembly. I really don't understand where you're in such a hurry. Europe is waiting for you, as far as I've heard, until 2025, about ready to receive us and there's no reason to get excited at all. Or apply that Bulgarian method, don't translate the laws at all. Give it all up in English. Call the MPs from this ruling coalition to vote them out, to finish and then go straight to work, so this country can benefit at least from some laws. Because the very fact that the government has accepted a solid number of amendments, and we have only 48 hours of time to propose them, to 58 laws, tells us that these laws were not right, that there are problems and that amendments are to be submitted to improve these laws. Instead of being a lesson to you, to use it, to enable the Assembly to adopt quality laws, you are looking to prevent it in every way possible. Please allow, at least the MPs of the SRS, to register and receive a word in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Not a single MP has been able to sign up...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20717	It's been two minutes. (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: It is the most important. Mr. Todorovic, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Of course, as parliament, we should be pleased that the debate is being conducted in quality, which is accepted by the proposings by all those amendments that amend the text of the law. Therefore, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The moment I ask if anyone's answering for a word, if there's no one on the monitor, then I move on to the next amendment. I ask only the Members to follow, and as they listen to the text, they will respond eventually. It's technically possible now very simple. I appreciate your thinking, but there's no reason to worry. It's going at a time pace that's fine. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 14th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20718	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 14: in the new Article 37a, item 6, word - the minister replaces the word - ministry. Reason – The SRS considers the ministry, rather than the minister, to be responsible for performing the work in this section of the work and to determine the amount of seeds considered small for certain types of forest trees. I must honestly say that the government's response, which is why it does not accept the amendment, is as much the same as for all the other amendments, so I thought that the government should have agreed more adequately than she wrote this, as is the same answer for Amendment 9, 10, 11, and in fact it has nothing to do with this amendment that I submitted to Article 14. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Ministry of Agriculture treats certain subsidies to cattle farmers, it's the same way that it treats people who are involved in the collection of this seed. You know very well that the seeds of forest plants are very difficult to collect, and even if collected, its fertility is every six or seven years, so farmers are forced to do the hard work. As is usually the case, as the Ministry of Agriculture has devalued the values of warlords, peasants, every agricultural producer, and this time it has devalued the value of the producers of forest plants and plants.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20719	Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Here you go, Mr. Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20720	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to this law, Article 16, I have submitted an amendment. The law adds Article 38a after Article 38a, the manufacturer is obliged to keep records of the labels issued under Article 38 of this Act for at least five years. My amendment refers to the fact that these five years should be replaced by seven years, to which the Government replied in its explanation that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the above deadline is optimal from the point of view of monitoring the quality of the produced and delivered reproductive material, as well as the possible initiation of the responsibility of the manufacturer, i.e. the supplier for the identified lack of reproductive material. Since my amendment to be replaced by seven for five years, the explanation of the amendment is that, in my view and vision of the SRS, given that certain types of fruit material take a long time to form seedlings in a nursery, it is necessary to limit the time period of keeping records of the labels issued to at least seven years. I think the government and the minister could accept this amendment. I hope that in the voting day you will accept the amendment I have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20721	The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Here you go, Mr. Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20722	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the reproductive material of forest trees in Article 18 absolutely do not contribute to the improvement of the basic law, i.e. the members to which these amendments apply. Of course, it is of great importance to obtain quality reproductive material, since this is the basis for further successful cultivation of forest trees. Quality control in production at a certain stage of growth and development of repromaterials also provides quality individuals. Of course, all of this must be accompanied by certain documentation, and the consequences of the acquisition of non-quality material can be catastrophic, since raising quality forest planting, as well as well known, takes a lot of time. Today, we have a number of devastations of forest trees, one of which is out of control. All we can think of is New Year's trees and their sales near the car's trunk market. And this law, like many others, will certainly not contribute to the improvement in our forestry, i.e. agriculture overall, taking into account, above all, the fact that a unilateral application of the trade agreement with EU countries and the floods of non-quality and cheap products on our market, which directly brings our agricultural producers into a very unpredictable position. I will use this time to ask one question, since Minister Dragin is there: what will the Serbian government do with agricultural land that is not used today or for a long period of time for agricultural production and is located in the parlogum? A significant part of these surfaces, unfortunately, are on built irrigation systems. Such examples are many, such as the Barajev plantations, then the plots in the Đurinci near Sopota, a youthful nursery and unfortunately a lot of others.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20723	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Would you like a word, Mr. Jojic? No, I don't. Yes, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20724	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I remain with the proposed amendment submitted by the SRS to Article 20. However, with this I would ask a question and draw the attention of the Minister of Agriculture, since the resolution minister is present: who allowed the cutting of woodwood in Omolitica, in the Plandište, in Bavanište on the parts where the protection belts were in agriculture, especially in the agricultural combinations, and they were bordered and partly on pastures that tycoons and some unknown people came and overthrew, cut down the trees, took away the forest mass, committed numerous crimes, but the state did not respond? I repeat, Omolitica, Banishte and Landland. I ask and suggest, I ask the Minister to determine the inspection which will come out on the spot and determine: what are the areas concerned, what are the plots, who was the owner and the user before, and who is the owner now, and who is the one who cut the forest and what is the damage done? To initiate an appropriate and litigative procedure and also a criminal, because it is also criminal acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20725	Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Sasa Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management want the final word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20726	I would like to thank the MPs for their helpful suggestions on the promotion of this law, and I would like to say that we are prepared to accept the amendment to Article 9. The bill submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic, where the word "producer" is replaced by the words "authorised person by the ministry". In addition, I would like to say that under the existing Law on Forests, which is not in line with European law, protective belts are unfortunately not subject to the Law on Forests, or are not treated as forest growth, which is going to be adopted by a new law that is in line with the European law and that law is on the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20727	The word is Dragan Todorovic, you advertise the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20728	Article 113: ''The provisions of this Rules of Procedure relating to the session of the National Assembly shall apply to all the other participants in the sitting, beside the MPs, and shall be applied accordingly to the meetings of the committees and other working bodies of the National Assembly. ''He's been an interesting minister since the beginning of this debate,' yesterday I pointed out several times in the way he spoke to the Assembly and MPs of the Assembly. It's no longer malignancy, it goes beyond some limits of decency. And on several occasions, regardless of which of the MPs appears or in front of which parties, the minister has always tried to find an example of the party or some events to turn matters around on parliamentary issues or amendments. He's done it now. I'm surprised that Mr. Dragin, for example, didn't take one of the brightest examples of DS, say the Municipality of Zrenjanin and their former mayor, who was a prominent member of DS, the man of the future, the man of Europe, the man who brought in so many newspapers, with a vision for the future, until suddenly it was discovered that a man who had a vision also had a tendency to take money, or that it belonged to the construction mob, and they found it in the vaults of great money. Now, however, the DS has denied it, but as far as I hear it will also call Boris Tadic as a witness, although I personally have a very bad experience with Boris Tadic. You can't reach him with a gun. Three times he's been sent to the Administrative Board to take away his immunity... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20729	Time. Of course there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Minister was extremely correct in preparing the topics on the agenda and with his co-workers participated very correctly in the debate, and I think that Parliament has made a contribution and through the debate to make the laws of quality. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 15th point of the agenda: – PROPOSITION OF ZAKONA OSTOČARSTU (in particular) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the law by the MPs: Elena Bož-Taljan, Lidija Vukićić, Milorad Buha, Milan Vjeninović, Milan Avramović, Boris Aleksić, Dragan Aćimović, Zoran Bortić, Jadranka Vuković, Zoran Vuković, Zoran Mašić, Zaroslav Marinković, Branimir Đoković, Momcilo Duvić, Radiša Ilić, Miljan Krstinović, Tomislav Ljubinović, Vesna Marić, Vladan Živić Živić, Radov Živić Živić, Mirović, Mirožažanović, Mirožanović, Mirožarović, Radoža Kražić, Radić, Rada Kraž Kraž Kraž Kraž Ilić, Radić, Radić, Milić, Rada Kraža Kraža Kraž Kraž Kraž Kraž Kraž Kraž Kraž Kraštić, Drag, Slav, Drag, Drag, Drag, Ivan Žov Žvić, Ivan Žović, Drag, Zažović, Zažović, Drag, Drag, Zažović, Zažović, Drag, Drag, Drag, Zažović, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Mirović, Mir, Mir, Mirović, Mir, Mirović, Drag, Mir, Drag, Mir, Mir, Drag, Drag, Mir, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Mir, Drag, Drag, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Slav, Drag, Drag, Drag, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, and other, National MP Dragan Zivkov, by letter dated 13 May 2009, withdrew the amendments to Article 2 paragraph 3. National MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Zoran Nikolic, by letter of 14 May 2009, withdrew the amendment to Article 42. National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, by letter of 18 May 2009, withdrew the amendment to Article 54. You received a report from the Committee on Agriculture, with a correction, and a report from the Legislative Committee. On the basis of Article 148(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected as incomplete amendment MPs: Željko Tomić and Milice Vojić-Marković on Article 7, with correction, Željko Tomic and Milice Vojić-Marković on Article 9, with correction, and Milice Vojić-Marković and Zoran Nikolic on Article 54, with correction. Discarded amendments cannot be discussed and will not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP Elana Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) An MP named Milorad Buha has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Would you like a word, Mr. Buha? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20730	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about an amendment that, in a legal and technical sense, is trying to correct the bill. The government didn't accept this amendment, and I won't try very hard to explain it. I will continue that story regarding the discriminatory measures of the Croatian state towards Serbs who have been expelled from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. It is about the Agricultural Land Act, which, as I pointed out, was adopted last year, which provides for fines in its provisions and the exemption of ownership for those owners of agricultural land that do not take agrotechnical measures and do not process agricultural land. This law, in this section relating to non-agritechnical measures, was exclusively designed for Serbs who were expelled from their hearths. This way violates the provisions of international law, numerous agreements between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia and inflicts enormous damage on the refugee population. Serbian state authorities are not doing anything to prevent such discriminatory measures and to prevent rigid and harsh regulation in diplomatic activities, and severe penalties, and on the other hand, when this land is exempt and leased, we can consider that at the moment a Serb, who owns the land, has lost the right to manage that land. I ask the question of the Minister of Agriculture – what to do in this situation? What do the ministry and government take to prevent these discriminatory measures?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20731	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bortic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so it became an integral part of the bill. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bortic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so it became an integral part of the bill. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The second amendment was submitted by Miroslav Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so it became an integral part of the bill. On Article 2 of the amendment, which, according to the Legislative Committee's assessment, was submitted by the MPs: Srboljub Zivanovic, Dragan Zivkov, Nikola Žutić, Jovan Damjanović, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Momcilo Duvnjak and Branimir Djokić. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs: Radica Jocic, Ljubomir Kragovic, Petar Jojic, Zoran Krasic, Vladan Jeremic, Natasa Jovanovic, Milorad Krstin, Tomislav Ljubenović and Vesna Maric submitted to the 2nd amendment, according to the assessment of the Legislative Committee. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Just sign in, please. Mr. Christin wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20732	I apologize to the chairman, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20733	Gentlemen, Mr. Krstin and Mr. Jojic signed up. One of you can do it, so define yourself who's going to talk. Would you like some, Mr. Kristin? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20734	Excuse me, did Peter Jojic sign up? Did he make the amendment? Then why deny the MP that he has two minutes' rights to the amendment? It really doesn't make sense. How can it be the same amendment? We didn't talk about the same amendment. It really doesn't make sense anymore. What we're doing, this is extremely incorrect...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20735	Mr. MP, according to article 143 of the 5th and 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if several MPs from the same parliamentary group submit an amendment, which is identical in its contents, will be deemed to be the same amendment submitted by several MPs. In that case, the right to state that amendment on behalf of the applicants shall have only one of the signed Members of Parliament for up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20736	I'm sorry, but it really doesn't make sense. Here, let my colleague Jojic speak of his amendment. Don't jump.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20737	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when it comes to the bill and its provisions and when it comes to livestock farming, must pay particular attention and the state certainly did not pay sufficient attention to cattlemen and healthy food producers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It is well known to you that the Zlatibor County, which consists of the Municipality of Čajetina, Nova Varoš, Priboj, Prijepolje, Sjenica, Ivanjica and that these are areas where healthy food can be produced the most, i.e. one quality meat, not import into our country waste from the EU. This country has to encourage agricultural holdings that deal, first of all, with livestock. The livestock industry is one of the major branches in our country. As a result, the SRS considers that those areas where just extraordinary opportunities are, such as, first of all, Zlatibor, Tara, Javor, Peshter, Deliblatska pescara, Minenik, Kolubar County and other districts where there are extraordinary opportunities to develop livestock and increase the production of healthy meat etc. That is why I appeal that in the Zlatibor County in particular, where half of Serbia can be fed with healthy food and the production of the most quality meat, and in Pester, for Serbia, and the rest of Serbia must have special attention, and therefore we have advocated, both me and Mr Krstin, and Mr Plužarevic and Mr Zivanovic, to pay attention to pastures to return to the villages.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20738	You're wasting your time with your five minutes, how many MPs are left, if you continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20739	Madam President, I'm not advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I, as an authorised representative, have five minutes left, as far as I know. (President: You may, please. I'd like your time back. At the beginning of this debate, the LDP said in principle that we have a lot of understanding about what these laws have come before MPs, that we have been eager to come and that it is necessary to bring our legislation into line, that is, to bring it closer to some European standards, we have also expressed regret that this has not happened before. Of course, we are aware that the responsibility is not on this ministry, or the minister and his associates, and we said then that we had faith that this ministry would do its best to implement these laws in action. I have to go back to what we talked about, Mr. Minister, two days ago, from the simple day I was in Backo Petrovac last night, talking to pensioners, farmers who are really desperate. That's where the people from Glojan came from who have the same problem I mentioned. So they only have one basic question – what to do with the country next year? Is it an interest to sell it, to rent to Miskovic, Kostic, Jerkovic, Micovic, Matijević, to anyone, and to gather the country and that they are no longer engaged in agricultural production, or is there some amount of understanding in the Ministry and Government, that this regulation that has been passed, and has entered into force 22-23, is repealed? They were brought into an unequal position. They trusted you, I mean the government, the state, that the regulation that was made at the beginning of this year will have power throughout the year, that it will be valid, not that they retroactively reduce the funds they invested. We expect full readiness and understanding from the PUPS representatives to intervene on the government as well as from you, as Minister of Agriculture, to advocate with the prime minister that these 200,000 pensioners, the agricultural producers who invested, not everyone, but a large number of them do, and a large number of people want to do the job and they have invested a lot, to return to them what was promised, so that they can function. I ask you, in the end, for their sake, to give some decided answer that you will do everything possible so that this regulation is no longer in force, that the Government may adopt a new regulation, because I think it is in the interest of all of us, primarily of you as Government, and of us as people who are engaged in this business or politics, that the promise made by one legal norm, or sublegal act that is passed, does not lose power after two months and that the new sublegal act that is adopted, or regulation, acts retroactively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20740	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20741	I explained earlier about this problem, what's most important, is that a large number of people subside under so-called. Agricultural holdings that are pensioners. What is very important is that all pensioners have the right to receive 5,000 dinars if they rent the land, or 5,000 dinars, if they still give a country on the basis of their face below 40 years of age, and they will also get 150 euros, as much as in these listed land areas per hectare. In this way, more than 12,000 dinars will be made. In addition to these funds, they can use 30% of the funds, plus they have agricultural pensions, which other farmers do not have, and thus the other farmers who receive only 12,000 dinars would put themselves in an unequal position compared to them. What is the best solution systemically, is that the country overwrites, or ownership, to younger members of its family, which is a very rare case especially in Vojvodina. There's even a saying in Sreme, everyone knows it, says, "As I breathe, I don't write." There's another worse one, but it's neither the time nor the time to say something like that here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20742	The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Free Marash, from place: Replica. The minister didn't understand me. He misread me. There is no basis for replication. You were fully understood by Mr. Minister, but you have another minute and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20743	Mr. Minister, you're talking about what farmers pensioners can do if they haven't used their own personal resources and bought diesel fuel, unless they bought fertilizer and bought seeds. If they did all this, collected fiscal cuts, handed over the vault with a request, because they know there's a regulation that they'll get 12,000 per hectare if they've done everything in accordance with the regulation and the law, you don't answer me – what do these people do? They are a new regulation, which retroactively applies, cut 70 percent of the value they should have received. So instead of 12,000, it's going to get 3,600. I understand that you say what they can do in the future and next year, and now they realize it. So, you sign it to the younger ones, you don't do it anymore, you play the law, you do it, but you do it to under 40, and you get the funding, and that's all right. What did those who did it now? What those who paid, like that example I showed you, 400,000 dinars a man spent on seeds, fertilizers and fuel at 30 ha, was supposed to get times 12,000, that's 300,000, it's gonna make him sick. Please answer that. Not what to do next year, but what to do now by these pensioners, farmers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20744	The People's MP Radisa Ilic, who wants a word, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go. Who reported in to the Rules of Procedure? You must re-apply, Mr. Flea. Mr. Dobrislav Prelic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20745	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appear on the basis of Article 104 - the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Minister by who knows which path does not answer the specific questions of the MPs and I think it also insults the dignity of the National Assembly, and above all the dignity of our farmers and all the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Marash has asked you a specific question. The third time you answer that the agricultural producer, a pensioner, who has defined himself as a commercial ownership, that he can rent out the land and get 5,000 dinars, that he can rent the country under 40 years of age and get 5,000 dinars and have the opportunity to issue the country in the arena and get, by your estimate, 100 to 150 euros in compensation. In this way you force our agricultural producer not to process his country, but to rent it and accept your charity and to betray it under 40 years of age, which would amount to 10,000 dinars. Please, they are allowed to register the country completely legitimately into agricultural land. They did it. You've abolished their right by regulation, and they can only get 30%. We are looking for an explanation – why did you abolish the regulation so that it could get only 30%? The second thing, non-commercial agricultural land, a farmer who declared himself, or really has non-commercial agricultural land, is up to two acres if I'm not mistaken, was supposed to get 40,000 dinars. You're the one who canceled it, Mr. Minister. Please answer specifically why you did it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20746	Mr. MP, tomorrow is the day, and that's between 4:00 and 19.00 p.m., when the ministers answer parliamentary questions. The Minister explains the amendments, i.e. the Government's response to the amendments, and in that function is here. I warn you to abuse the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, this time I will not give you a warning, but in principle I will give a warning if calling for abuse of the Rules of Procedure is used for something that is not really that. Mr. Milorad Krstin, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20747	Madam Chairman, you have injured a member of the 143rd Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, item 6, which says – if several MPs from the same parliamentary group submit an amendment that is identical, they will consider it to be the same amendment that has submitted several Members of Parliament together and will apply the provision of Article 5 of this article. I'm going to quote you now these amendments that we've submitted. I will begin by myself to see that there are differences between my amendment, Mr Tomislav Ljubenovic and Vesna Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20748	Mr. Krstin, I've given an explanation, and the only thing I can do is warn you not to give you a warning. You can't speak on the same subject at the same session several times. There was that remark, I gave the answer, please, I'm warning you now, so I don't give a warning. Look at the attitude of the 5th member and you'll see, that's what I've already explained before. The People's MP Radisa Ilic, who wants a word, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20749	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 paragraph 1 point 10, with a proposal to add the word "biological". The amendment that I have submitted to this member wants to complete the definition of domestic animal cultivation, so it should read: domestic animal cultivation is a set of biological, genetic and zootechnical processes in order to display production material. The word "biological" that should be found in the definition represents all those processes, beyond genetic and zootechnical, which are essential for quality cultivation of domestic animals. One of the most important factors that could be classified in biology is just a natural environment, a clean environment and healthy food, which was a lot of talk in yesterday's debate. If the authorities of this country, which are obliged to prevent domestic animal nutrition, find, for example, genetically modified soybeans or components and concentrates that are no longer used in EU countries, we will have absolutely no quality livestock production. Our farmers find out about the harmfulness of certain nutrients only when they face the death of cattle and then the veterinarians, if they will, tell them in most cases to look for the cause of the type of nutrients used by farmers to feed cattle. Now I would like to ask you, Mr. Minister, is there any nutrients on our market in Serbia that are imported from the EU that are banned there, and that are widely used in Serbia for the feeding of cattle? In particular, I'm going to ask you for nutrients called "gebi".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20750	On Article 2 of the amendment, which, according to the Legislative Committee's assessment, is identical, were submitted by MPs Dusan Maric, Momir Markovic and Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20751	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first of all, it's really not correct, because the amendments aren't identical and they're not in the same text, but I'm not wasting my time. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2(1) point 14), where I ask that the "biological and technological and other" records be added to this law to protect the citizens of Serbia, to protect consumers and to protect producers. I received a reply from the Ministry, says – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the definition in the article in question is made up in accordance with etc., and it is a fundamental one, not a legal-technical order of the text. Mr. Minister, I'm neither a lecturer of the Ministry of Agriculture nor a lawyer, so that I can legally sort out the texts of the laws you're proposing. I don't care what you're going to get in the way if there's no interaction or if it's not in accordance with the law. I have asked for this amendment to make a fundamental change, which will protect producers on the one hand, and on the other hand the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20752	Mrs. Verica Radeta and Mr. Dusan Maric reported. I'm guessing it's the same base of communication. Identify yourself which one of you will. On what grounds? Would you, Mrs. Radeta?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20753	I really admire you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, that you even assume that MPs appear on the same basis. I'm reporting from members 79th and 149th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on which a report of the Legislative Committee was submitted to the MPs. In that report of the Legislative Committee, some groups of amendments have been made that you do not allow us to talk and we do not allow you to let us not explain that this cannot be the same. My question, please give us an answer that the president of the Administrative Board, who hasn't been in the O.R. for days, but somehow find him, get him somewhere, or let Mr. Secretary, as a graduate lawyer, explain where in Articles 79 and 149. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say that the Legislative Committee can in any way group amendments. Unfortunately, since you have now made it impossible for the Members of Parliament to speak in the Rules of Procedure and by amendments, I do not have time to read these two Members of the Rules of Procedure, it cannot be read within this two-minute period, but if I did not read it then the entire public would hear that there is no legal basis in these two Rules of Procedure to group amendments in any way. It is true that you have provided for the possibility of grouping identical amendments to this member, but unfortunately, the bad lawyers have been making a proposal for you, you have not predicted who can determine those groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20754	It's been two minutes. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. As for your request and the questions that the President of the Administrative Board and the Administrative Board give any explanation, it is possible only if the Assembly votes such a position, so that we have a clear view of the Legislative Committee, which has a basis in this Rules of Procedure. I'm really asking you not to put me in a position to start voicing measures. The theme you are running has been run by a large number of MPs. I've given a very clear, reasoned answer and there's no other answer. Would you like the Assembly to make a statement on the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote? It'll be done. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Mr. Dusan Maric, can I help you? Would you like a minute? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20755	I have to find out that I thought I was in the National Assembly, but I get the impression that I'm on the puzzle show, so whoever presses the key, who before the girl, is his girlfriend. I have submitted an amendment to suggest the technical improvement of Article 14, I have no time to explain it. The Government replied that the amendment did not accept for the reasons set out in the reasons for the amendment 8. The reasons for the amendment 8 states: ‘Amendment shall be accepted for the reasons set out in that amendment’. This has nothing to do with the connection. In order for Serbian citizens to know what this is about, and to explain it to them in the next 20 seconds, I will make the next comparison. It's like I said about like this, that Chelsea deservedly defeated Arsenal, and the government answered me – yes, but he didn't play Ronaldo, he had a red card in this car. Ronaldo really didn't play, but Ronaldo doesn't play for Chelsea, not for Arsenal, but for Manchester United.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20756	Mr Maric, two MPs cannot speak in the future if it is an assessment of the Legislative Committee that the text of the amendment is identical. Now I've allowed you to do this, but I'm asking you to know that it doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure. I thought you advertised the Rules of Procedure. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr. Todorovic, please do not throw or disturb the atmosphere that should be slightly different. The 2nd amendment, which, according to the Legislative Committee's assessment, was submitted by MPs Dejan Mirovic and Vladan Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Martinovic answered, but it was a mistake. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I suppose he wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20757	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of point 15, which complements the definition of what the Government has called in the draft law with good breeding practice. I suggested adding the word "natural" after the word "good breeding practice", so that the definition would read "good breeding practice is the natural cultivation of domestic animals" etc. The SRS believes Serbia has an exceptional tradition in the cultivation of domestic animals and that we should not step down from that tradition. The adoption of this amendment guarantees respect for this tradition, i.e. it is guaranteed that domestic animals in Serbia will continue to be farmed so as to ensure the welfare of animals on the one hand, on the other hand, the quality of animal meat and thus human health. I would just like to remind the government of Serbia and Minister Dragin of the affairs that have taken place over the past few years, when we have imported pork heads from Brazil over 30 years old, when we have imported turkey meat that has been poisoned, and at the same time all these products have been sold in Serbia, and it is obvious that the Ministry of Agriculture and the relevant inspection services that allowed such products to be sold and thus dangerously endangering the health of Serbian citizens. We talked yesterday about not allowing the production of genetically modified food. If you would accept this amendment, then you would thus prove your definition that you really care, on the one hand, for the welfare of animals, for the quality of animal meat and for the respect of Serbia's livestock tradition, but also for the health of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20758	National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, which, according to the evaluation of the Legislative Committee, was submitted by the MPs: Milan Nikolic, Mirko Munjic, Paja Momčilov, Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, Sreto Perić, Ljubisa Petkovic and Dusanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, which, according to the Legislative Committee's assessment, is identical, were submitted by MPs Zoran Popovic and Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20759	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 paragraph 1 point 25 of the Law on cattle farming. The point is 25) "a aquaculture facility is a pond and another object on agricultural or other land used for aquaculture, and it can be hot water or cold watery". With my amendment, I suggest that instead of saying "use for aquaculture" the words "use for growing fish and other aquatic organisms". I believe that by accepting the amendment, at least some of the draft laws would be corrected. This is how the government, more specifically the Ministry of Agriculture, rejects the amendments, shows that it does not want to apply real proposals, but another bad law makes it even more difficult to place livestock and Serbian agrarian in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20760	On Article 2 of the amendment, which, according to the Legislative Committee's assessment, is identical, were submitted by the MPs Marina Ragus and Dobrislav Prelic. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Flea.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20761	Ladies and gentlemen, cattle farming is a tremendously large area, and there are a lot of problems in livestock. I hope you agree with me, Mr. Minister. I'll give you a picture from the field. You know that many of our agricultural producers have raised loans to expand the capacity of breeding heifers and sows. You know the situation when the Mattijevic meat industry hired veterinarians to buy pigs and stone cows to examine, because people were forced to settle their obligations to sell the heifers. Mr. Minister, it's from God's Greota. The AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund is directly under Boris Pajtic's stick, as well as the AP Vojvodina Development Fund. These people didn't just get credit and wanted to be congratulated on returning it. You know by yourself with this price of milk that they're not able and that's one of the reasons I begged you yesterday to sort of come out to meet these people. The Development Fund has been transferred from its giro accounts to farmers carrying out their obligations through the Metals Bank. They have already received warnings before the lawsuit, and likely, if they do not settle it, they will go home and land for good. Just one more thing. Incentives, or grants, when you have the habit of not knowing what to say to us, then you give an example to hurt us. Let me tell you a situation from the field. The grants were received exclusively by members of G17 plus and DS. Find me a member of the SRS that's been granted grants and I'll apologize to you publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20762	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20763	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 paragraph 1 point 30 of the Law on cattle farming. Now, let me remind you, this article of the law applies to pydgre, and it's very interesting how you have defined pydgre with this law. I'm just going to quote exactly what the law says: "pydgre is a document of origin and production features of quality domestic animals." I asked the amendment to add "and natural" behind the words "productive". I'm really surprised you didn't accept this amendment, because the amendment is completely logical. He's kind of an axiomatical amendment, but you don't care. For pedigre, you think it's enough to say production traits, and the natural properties, the qualities that God has given to some kind, really, as far as I can see, mean nothing to you. That's why I'm not surprised you didn't accept this amendment. If we're considering yesterday's debate when we're discussing genetically modified products, you're, as part of yesterday's debate here, showing that you're holding a thread, and we know what will lead us to genetically modified products. That's why I think and appeal to the present minister here to reconsider and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20764	On Article 2 of the amendment, which, according to the Legislative Committee's assessment, is identical, were submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radeta and Milovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20765	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of point 30 of the bill. Point 30) provides for the proposal for a law of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I read, that pedigre is a public document on the origin and production properties of quality domestic animals. The amendment I tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group provides for the addition of certain words, so that the amendment, i.e. the provision of point 30) of Article 2. The bill of law reads: "Pydgre is a public record document on origin and production features of quality domestic animals". If we consider, for example, point 14 of the same article, or possibly point 22) or 46 of the same article, where we refer to the meaning of the particular words of Article 2. The draft law and where the terms mention both the records and the assurances and the main parent records, so I believe that it is not disputed, should not be disputed that Mr. Minister accepts the amendment of the SRS to provide for the definition in point 30) as a public record document. The draft law clearly defines the concepts and makes the difference between the expression and point 30) and point 46. In point 30), the quality of the breeding domestic animal is highlighted in relation to the term "belief on origin", referred to in point 46) of the same Article 2, which is, of course, fine. The amendment requires the document to be a public record act. The essence of the amendment is exactly that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20766	National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20767	I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 paragraph 1 point 33 of the bill and have predicted that the words "and the other" are added after the word "stochar" was added. In the event that the Government accepted the amendment, point 33) would be – the agricultural land is a production unit on which legal entities, entrepreneurs and natural persons carry out livestock and other production. The reasons for which this amendment has been rejected is that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the definition in the article in question is made up in accordance with, be careful with this, scientific and professional knowledge and in the way in which this issue is regulated in most European countries, and the proposed amendment is not about legal and technical regulation of the text, but about fundamental changes which are not justified and justified. I really agree that this category of agricultural land is a term in the spirit of Euro-Atlantic integration, that you have exactly coordinated it and defined it, but I could accept this argument that our amendment provides for you to throw out the word "coach" since the law refers to livestock production. But, Mr. Minister, you have to accept the fact that agricultural holdings aren't just producing in the livestock sector. Agricultural holdings are also involved in the production of some other agricultural cultures, so we ran and managed. I repeat, and I believe that, essentially, our proposal, as you have stated, this article would not have changed, I think it would have been more complete and you had really enough reason to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20768	The People's MP, Marina Toman, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Please, you didn't, you didn't have a card, you didn't sign up, I really can't give you a word when you don't have a card. It won't be a problem, come on now. But in order for someone to get a word in, they have to have a card, and they have to be signed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20769	I'm second-guessed, so allow me... Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment proposing that in Article 2 paragraph 1 of point 31 of the Law on cattle farming after - the tile is an intrinsic domestic female animal whose breeding value is determined on the basis of collected data on origin, production and other characteristics - add the word "natural". The Serbian Radical Party believes it is necessary to carry out a legal-technical editorial of the text of the law, which will match the essence and meaning of a legal project that determines the problem of livestock farming. This is how the bill for us Serbian radicals is unacceptable, because it will not solve the accumulated problems in this area of agriculture. Since I still have time, Mrs. Slavica, I'll say next. Coming to the Assembly today my neighbor asks – where am I going? I told him I was going to the National Assembly for work. And he says, "And you say Spaho, you're going to an institution for two minutes." Here's what you've done, making citizens of Serbia think they have about this assembly. Mr. Minister, I always say that you should adopt my amendments, because they bring you directly into Europe, and since you have never adopted any of my amendments so far, you will never enter Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20770	National MP Dragan Todorovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zeljko Tomic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Donka Banovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20771	My colleagues have submitted an amendment to Article 3 and Article 3 defines the objectives of livestock farming. By amendment, we propose that points 14 and 17 be deleted from Article 3. Point 14 provides that the identification, marking and registration of domestic animals is one of the objectives of livestock farming. Please, this area is very clear and precise, defined in another law, or the Veterinary Act. Also, point 17 provides for one of the objectives of protecting people in the cultivation of domestic animals. Please also this area of protection at work and, among other things, the people involved in livestock farming, is very well, precisely and clearly regulated in the Labour Protection Act, so we do not feel that there is a need for these two points to be counted in the objectives of livestock farming.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20772	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3rd amendment with correction was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, the People's MP, Milorad Buha, submitted. Do you want a word? Yeah. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20773	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have sent an amendment to Article 3(1). The bill, to add point 18 after point 17), which reads: "in the veterinary protection of domestic animals use scientific research knowledge and experience of modern methodological studies". The argument of the Government states that the amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the reasons for the amendment do not give rise to legitimate reasons, in particular because the proposed amendment does not entail a legal-technical order of the text. Since the breeding of animals from a veterinary protection aspect, i.e. animal health, is governed by the Veterinary Act, the proposed amendment cannot be accepted. In its provisions, the entire Law on cattle farming has thrown out protection, and in particular veterinary law as a scientific discipline that must be present in the system of protection of domestic animals. In several amendments, the SRS carried out adjustments, including legal and technical adjustments related to the protection, veterinary, influence and importance of the protection of domestic animals and the specific role of veterinary purposes. Apparently, this bill was not done by a man from the Veterinary Authority, he obviously had very little influence in proposing the provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20774	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 3 by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Duvnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, pursuant to Article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit my own amendment to the draft law on livestock farming. Article 7 of the proposed law on livestock farming, Article 3, reads: "The basic breeding organisation of the operations referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article may perform if there is: 1) in a permanent working relationship, on the business of raising domestic animals of at least one graduate agricultural engineer, or a graduate master for livestock farming, or an engineer of the livestock direction; 2) appropriate equipment". With my amendment, I propose adding the word "work" to the "responsible equipment" at point 2) so that the point would read "responsible work equipment". As you can see here, it's not about the fundamental change, it's about the technical improvement of the law. Therefore, there is no reasonable reason why this amendment of mine should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20776	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Mašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20777	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, co-workers at the ministry, Mr. Radic has submitted an amendment intending to amend Article 8, and that the regional breeding organisation is not leading the bee breed cadastre, but that the work is run by a reference beekeeping organisation, because it is also the opinion of the competent beekeeping organisations. This job will be better done by a reference beekeeping organisation than by a regional breeding organisation, which has a primary task, in accordance with this law, to deal with, above all, the selection and breeding of domestic animals, and that the bee breeding cadastre is essentially significant from the aspect of bee growing and honey production and that this job will be better done by the reference beekeeping organisation. The government replied not to accept the amendment because the reference beekeeping organisation was not prescribed as a livestock subject. The truth is that the amendment is a mistake, that we have not implemented the correction of the bill and in Article 2 where certain terms are defined. I just want to say that this amendment has also been submitted to the suggestion of the president of the beekeeping organisation of the Republic of Serbia and that he felt that this regulation of the bee cadastre would be better than the law's proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20778	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20779	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 8(2). The draft law, these are breeding organisations, to add point 7 after point 6) which reads "to carry out other tasks in accordance with the Act establishing a regional breeding organisation". Reason: The SRS considers it necessary to carry out a legal-technical editorial of the text of the law which will correspond to the essence and meaning of a legal project governing the problem of livestock farming. The Government's reply is that the amendment is not accepted because the proposed amendment does not entail a legal-technical change of text. The amendment is also not accepted because the draft law clearly defines the business, i.e. the competence of the livestock subjects, and so does the regional breeding organisations, and the proposed solutions do not accept. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at regional organizations, or organizations of a larger or broad type, these are organizations that actually put under their cap and small breeders. You want to make this organization some kind of production plan, but which has a different connotation – that small producers, which are 10 to 20 throats, are tied to this hero or 15 to 20, related to that pig, to choke them, or that they are in a privileged position, these great producers, rather than petty ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20780	National MP Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20781	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9(3), by making this amendment more clearly defined by this provision concerning item 3(3), namely, point 3) of the bill provides for "responsible equipment". I think you need to add one word here, that you need to have the right work equipment. Therefore, this is quite logical, clear and that definition would be more complete and clear, because it is about work equipment, what this member is all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20782	Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Mr. Ilic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20783	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9(2), which reads: after the words "domestic animals", the words "with the consent of the veterinary institution" are added. The Government replied, in its explanation, that the quality control of breeding domestic animals is carried out in accordance with the breeding programme, and that health control is carried out by veterinarians for reproductive activities, in accordance with the Veterinary Law. Serbia must take care of the genetic potential it has. It is known that Serbia has excellent experts dealing with the improvement, as well as the preservation of the quality of domestic races, as well as the protection of new races and hybrids. The problem for Serbian livestock farming can arise at that time if, uncontrollably, there are races in the Serbian market that carry the dangers genetically passed on to the offspring when mixing with domestic races. We all know the anomalies that have occurred on certain races of domestic animals in England, Germany, America, etc., above all, in their artificially created races. We also remember crazy cows, a disorder that was transmitted just by using harmful nutrients, which we talked a lot about here, and that was hiding the destructive genetic material in it. That's why the animals were killed and burned to break the chain of production of new ones. I'm just afraid that by a trade agreement with the EU, in fact, we've opened the limits for the entry of foreign races of domestic animals that will threaten the continued improvement of the healthy races of domestic animals so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20784	The time of two minutes has passed. The 9th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Register to give you my word, Mrs. Vojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20785	We have a problem, since we've submitted the amendment to Article 7 and we've corrected it on May 15th. He didn't appear in this amendment review at all. Now we have an article 9, he hasn't shown up again. We don't understand what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20786	At first I read, on the basis of Article 148(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected as incomplete amendments by Željko Tomic and Milice Vojić-Marković to article 7, with correction, both Mr Zeljko Tomic and Milice Vojić-Marković, to article 9 with the correction, and yours, Mrs Vojić-Marković and Zoran Nikolic to article 54 with the correction. So they were incomplete about being rejected. You have the word now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20787	I really don't know what was incomplete about these amendments, and I'd like to see that, and I'll try to get some information from the Legislative Committee on what this is about, because I just don't know that we signed incomplete amendments. So now I'd like to say something about Article 10(1) point 5. The establishment of special-authorities organisations is envisaged here, so the law lists the animal reproduction centre and artificial insemination, test cells, milk quality testing laboratories, molecular-genetic tests laboratories, and then, the addition, acquisition and transplantation of embryos. I think it is good here to replace the word "gathering" with the proper word "gathering" because professional literature always uses the word "gathering."
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20788	Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20789	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. Otherwise, Article 10 defines an organisation in livestock with special powers, as well as their organisational forms. I suggested adding the word “work” in Article 10 of Section 10 after the word “object” was added. The explanation of the Ministry is that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in Amendment No 75, where it states that the amendment is not accepted for reasons that the reasons for the amendment do not arise, and in particular for the reasons why the proposed amendments do not involve a legal and technical editorial of the text, which is a little odd to me as an explanation. This time I would like to use it to remind these MPs and Mr. Minister that a month and a half ago, after several days of protesting citizens in the Brdjani settlement, the occupiers, i.e. The members of Eulexa and Kfor threw tear gas at the citizens who peacefully protested to protest the construction of Shipar houses in their environment. That process has calmed down at the moment, but I want to point out the consequences. The consequences are catastrophic. All the townsmen of Brdjan who had any of the livestock funds, and when I say the livestock fund, I mean the livestock, so many households lost their chickens, their chickens, turkeys, pigeons, and families that had bees of society and bees are extinct. I ask the question of the Minister of Agriculture: what do you do to make up for the locals of Brdjani, who, due to the excessive use of tear gas by Kfor and Eulexa, have come into a situation to lose their own small livestock fund that they used anyway?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20790	The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Krassic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20791	Mr. Novakovic, you see, I've already qualified for "Millionaire", a game of quick fingers, and I've managed to establish communication through this Micunovic calling system. With this amendment, we are asking only to change the word "minister" in a few words "the ministry responsible for agriculture and livestock affairs". Of course, what I'm saying now does not specifically refer to the proposing representative and the ministry concerned, because it is simply a manner that goes from the secretariat of the legislation and the Ministry of State Administration. In all our laws, the minister is potentiald as an incoherent authority at the head of a state body. In practice, he does not follow the individual’s responsibility for what is done. We think it is much more correct that for all situations when the competent state authority performs and uses its powers, the words "ministration responsible for the relevant jobs" are used. But, Mr. Minister, I think there is a big problem with this Article 11 which is not covered by our amendment, which is that at least a little bit has to say what and what conditions should be met by the candidates you would put in that task force called the National Science Council, since we have great experts in agriculture like this branded Srdjan Milivojevic, who graduated from the agricultural college. You know, when it comes to livestock, the ultimate effect is the value of the goods. The useful value of pig, pig, is to eat. Given the problems at the Ibaric Master's Office, I'm just afraid your scientists don't make it up in the first part to look like pigs, and in the last part to look like sheep. That's why you had to state what scientific experts are and what conditions they have to meet, so qualified, certified, recognised scientific experts. This is how you within this task force should put...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20792	Two minutes. Thank you. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Here you go, Mr. Kristin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20793	Mr. Minister, I really apologize, I thought Mr. Micovic would be here, given that something like this was similar in some times and I thought I would communicate with Micovic. You see, in Article 12, point (1) of Article 1(1) of the Law, I added the word “veterinary ” after the word“ cattle farming. ” I'll tell you why. This area of livestock is a bit wider. When I said - and veterinary, I thought that veterinary care, as one of those mechanisms that propose veterinary sanitary measures, animal health measures, prevention measures to protect various diseases, i.e. Vaccination, specifically referring to rabies, animal plague, swine fever and diagnostic studies of various diseases, such as, pay attention, bruculosis of cattle and sheep, leukosis of cattle, tuberculosis of cattle. Why do I speak bruculosis of cattle? Because I had a conflict with Mr. Krnjajic. Back then, he was the head of the Veterinary Authority. In fact, on the ground, there were samples of blood taken from calves younger than six months old, and that was illegal in law. Of lambs under three months old, and that law was forbidden. That is why I wanted to insert into this Article 12, following the regulations in Section 1, which says – the regulations governing the livestock sector, and veterinary care. Yes, you've made it very clear that this is defined by the Veterinary Act, but that what was happening on the ground isn't happening. I even said it was the municipality of Zrenjanin, that it was the inhabited place of Elemir, Tara, Škumane, Melenci etc. So, the one who allowed a certain number of experts to do this on the ground, the blood test, they worked with those calves and the lambs that weren't over six months old and over three months old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20794	Thank you. The 12th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. There's no answer for word. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Maric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20795	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment proposing that one of the powers that this bill is intended to assign to the Minister be transferred to the Ministry. It is in line with the SRS' view that the institution is more important than the individual, that the minister cannot have more authority than the ministry has. At the very least, it is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, all these legislation proposals in the field of agriculture degrade the importance of the ministry on the one hand, and on the other side ministers are given, unmistakably, Pharaoh's powers. I have calculated that this bill mentions the minister 64 times, the ministry only 31 times. This disproportionateness is even greater when it comes to specific powers, essential powers that the minister and the ministry have. In 47 cases, the minister is in charge, only in six cases, the ministry. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I will only list some of the powers that the minister has under this bill: determines the appearance of the barn, assesses the quality of egg cells and embryos, preserves sperm, registers, assesses the fertility value of domestic animals, prescribes patterns and contents of various requirements, determines the content and method of keeping the register, determines the conditions for introduction into breeding, determines the origin, determines the procedure and method of determining species, etc., 20 more powers. Considering that the same minister is in charge of forestry, water and agriculture, and that in those areas, he also has all the powers, then only one conclusion can be made, that if the minister does all this, he will not have time to do his job.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20796	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Mr. Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20797	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment asking for the word - the minister to be replaced by the word "ministration", because the ministry is an institution, the minister is an in-house body, but it is a minister and a transient phenomenon. I remind Mr. Minister that only since the "buldozer revolution" began and so far as there were agriculture ministers, the agriculture ministry has survived. They didn't fall either, they got quite caught, but in other areas. I have been answered – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the State Administration Act is a minister authorised to adopt sublegal acts, not a ministry. We've also been critical of this law on state administration and all the laws that regulated this matter in this way, putting up with the amendments, but the "domestics" wanted to do so since 2000, so on, they wanted to set things wrong, and now they have to comply with this. However, there is what Valtazar Bogisic said "what the coat of arms is born, time does not correct", this can only make elections correct. I advise you, Ministers, sign, but adopt the amendment. Let the ministry bring these acts and let the ministry make its decisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20798	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Željko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 35th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Siniša Stamenković submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Željko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. You haven't answered. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, first you must be present and register. Put in the card. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20799	According to the Rules of Procedure, when I get out of the O.R., that moment I take out my card, and I forgot to return it, I apologize. So Mr. Tomic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 37, item 2. We ask that attitude 2 be deleted. It reads: ''The quality of sperm in item 1 point 4 of this law gives an opinion to the main breeding organisation. ''But if we compare this article and this attitude to Article 7, item 3, point 1) of the same law, in which it says who is doing these jobs in a breeding organisation, we see that we are actually having a problem with who will give that opinion, because there are no employees of graduate veterinarians or veterinarian geneticists here. What will be said is that this law, i.e. the jurisdiction of this law, is constantly mixed with the jurisdiction of the Veterinary Act. In fact, many of the tasks entrusted by the Law on the Veterinary of State and Public Affairs to veterinarians and veterinary services here in this law are being deleted and I'm afraid there will be major problems in practice. This attitude and this article show in fact what and what problems will arise.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20800	Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic and Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic? No, I don't. ) Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Miroslav Marinkovic submitted to Article 38 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 42nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd Amendment was submitted by Miroslav Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 50th Amendment was submitted by Siniša Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Mašić Zoran. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20801	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Veroljub Arsic has submitted an amendment aimed at defining more precisely how the breeder should respect the needs of domestic animals in cultivation, because in the title of Article 50, it stands – respect for the needs of domestic animals in cultivation. In Section 4, which he proposes to change, it states that the breeder is obliged to provide special care for sick, injured and exhausted domestic animals, in accordance with the rules governing animal health care and welfare. The amendment proposes to define this position more precisely and so that the breeder is obliged to provide special care and treatment, the word "and treatment" for sick, injured, exhausted domestic animals, in accordance with the regulations governing the health care of domestic animals. The legislator states that this amendment has not been accepted because the treatment of sick, injured and exhausted domestic animals is defined by the Veterinary Act. This attitude states that it is precisely the care of sick, injured, and insinuated that the Animal Health Act, which is precisely the Law on Veterinary and Truth, is the law on animal welfare. But what is the legal obligation under the Veterinary Act, the owner or holder of the animals, in this case the breeder, is if he has noticed that the animal is sick, has an obligation to take measures of treatment, to report to the veterinarian that he has a sick animal and that the veterinarian, especially if there is a suspicion of an infectious disease and veterinary inspection, which must come out on the spot and that breeder, i.e. the owner of the animal takes the treatment measures. If we already have a situation that the breeder must provide special care and conditions for keeping a sick animal, then it is logical that he has an obligation and to take treatment in accordance with the laws governing animal health care and welfare. It's the Veterinary Act and it's not even questionable. In the end, it stands here in this article and in this attitude. I think it was the basis to accept this intervention and commit the breeder to not only provide special care, but also to ensure the treatment of that animal if she is ill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20802	Members of the 51st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bortic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 53rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Miroslav Marinkovic submitted to the 53rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Željko Tomic together submitted to the 53rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20803	It seems that I am in charge of the language used in this law, but also in this Article, paragraph 1 point 6 of Article 53), which reads in the law – the processing and care of papaks, hooves and cleaning of domestic animals – we think that it is better to say "no domestic animals" than exclusively cleaning. I think it's both professional and termologically more acceptable and correct. On the other hand, I'd like to comment on a few more points of view. This is point 2), castration of pigs under one week and point 4), purchase of tails in pigs and lambs until the fourth day of age. It's a job that a breeder himself can do. This is contrary to the law you gave us and to which we should meet after this law, which is the law on animal welfare. I don't know if you're talking to each other, because we had to read all 15 laws at the same time, so these things got in our eyes. It just seems to me that then, how we really wanted to solve the problem, the one about torturing and harassing animals, we're not going to solve it this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20804	National MP Miroslav Marinkovic submitted to the 54th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Ambassador Milan Knezevic submitted to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 54th amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Miroslav Marinkovic submitted to the 55th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 56th Amendment was submitted by Sinisha Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jelena Budimirovic has tabled an amendment proposing that the title above members 57th and member 57th be deleted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Budimirovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20805	The Honored Presidency, representatives of the government, respected citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia's SNS, submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 57 and 57. Proposal for a cattle law. I have proposed an amendment to delete this article relating to the marking and recording of domestic animals. Article 57 provides that the marking and recording of domestic animals may be carried out by a breeder, a breeding organisation, a veterinary clinic, a veterinary station and a veterinary service. The SNS considers that the marking and recording of animals should exclusively be carried out by veterinary services, i.e. veterinary cells and clinics, as so far done in accordance with the Veterinary Law, with the aim of monitoring the movement of animals in order to better prevent the spread and control of dangerous infectious animal diseases. Therefore, the veterinary service is trained to carry out the work of marking domestic animals and we do not feel that it is necessary to transfer that job to a breeder or a breeding organisation, which, above all, would have to undergo training under the programme of the Ministry, and then get the authority of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20806	National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20807	Article 57(3), in the way we have proposed to change, should read: "the professional training of the breeders referred to in Article 2(1) of this Article shall be carried out in organised training, according to the programme adopted by the Ministry". We think it is important that this change be made in order to comply with the change in attitude 2. (explained the second amendment, with Zoran Nikolic, which is not included in the procedure; cited text item 3. the same as in the draft law – notice of the editor. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20808	National MP Miroslav Marinkovic submitted to the 57th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. The word is Mr. Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20809	Dear Presidency, I have to re-apply to the public and beekeepers who essentially influenced this amendment most, so to speak, to report and to try to change the text. Here in Article 60, where the bee of pasha is defined, the bee cadastre fits and the phenological map, states in point 2, that the bee cadastre fits is a collection of data on the presence of mediocre plants in a particular area, which is run by a regional breeding organisation. So, beekeepers suggest, in fear that this regional breeding organisation will simply have a shortcut to work and will primarily be engaged in large animal breeding business, that it will pay little attention to beekeeping and this business, the management of bee-keeping, due to the overall complexity of this problem, is run by a reference bee-keeping organisation. I regret to say that this amendment has not been accepted and that perhaps the fear of beekeepers will prove justified, and if so, the legislator will have to make an amendment to the law or answer the beekeepers why their amendment and their demands are not respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20810	National MP Miroslav Markicevic submitted to the 61st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20811	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister, my colleague Miroslav Markicevic, in front of the NS parliamentary group, submitted an amendment to Article 61(4). The message set out in this amendment is that in the use and opportunity of someone from outside the country to come and act on our territory when bees and beekeeping societies are concerned, the essence is that they are really great precautions and supervision, that things that can be fatal for domestic beekeepers do not happen. The message from the amendment is that the control system is designed to rule out any possibility of transmission of infectious diseases, especially bacterial, those known to rot, with parasite diseases, of course, is easier to treat if it occurs. Of course, the Ministry will make sure that when such bees enter the country, a certain veterinary inspection, a review, will be carried out. That's probably what the ministry's consent means. Of course, it would be extremely desirable for countries from which certain beekeeping systems are being examined so that they can agree, and the possibility that in both our country and there, we are absolutely certain that no infectious diseases can occur during such activities that thousands and thousands of societies can carry. This is the moment to say that the system of reciprocity must certainly exist in this area, for sure, that when our beekeepers are concerned and when they leave the country, it is not the same treatment as with some other countries, let's just say that in all this activity beekeepers decide whether to move their society or not in a moment or two days. So, the visa regime system is also a big problem for our beekeepers because they have to go through all this activity, and we know that it's a period of a month or two to deal with it, so I would urge the ministry to meet in such situations and help the beekeepers who choose from our country to go to another country. This is the moment to say that the local ministry needs to make sure, to help these people who deal with beekeeping, not just those large and organized groups, but small individual producers that I'm practically dealing with. It is very interesting for these people to also be helped with transport, to carry out certain subsidies, especially in the years that are dry, beekeepers say. These people need to be helped in feeding that fall, of course, and a lot of things, because if the year is bad, believe me, these people are in big trouble because the costs are extremely high.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20812	Parliamentarians Milan Dimitrijevic and Zoran Nikolic submitted together to the 62nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Bortic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and a new article 64 be added after article 63. This proposal was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Agriculture, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find it has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Zoran Popovic has tabled an amendment proposing to change the name of Chapter 8. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20813	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 64. Proposal for a law on livestock farming, which reads: "Over Article 64. The draft law on livestock farming, Chapter 8, is amended and reads: "The growing of fish and other organisms." Mr. Zoran Krasic spoke of a radical trend for the government to introduce some foreign terms into the bill and thus make some kind of new speech. You can tell from this example. The government proposes a title – conditions for the implementation of aquaculture. I propose a title – growing fish and other organisms. I leave it to the citizens of Serbia to assess what is more reasonable and what is in the spirit of Serbian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20814	Thank you. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted an amendment proposing that the title be changed above article 64. The word is Mr. Toolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20815	Mr. Vice President, before I begin my presentation, I'd have one request for you. I've submitted a lot of amendments, like all the members of the SRS, to improve this law, and I've just been informed that I have a death case, so I'd like to ask you, since we think it's very important to make our views known, I'm directly related to agriculture, so if I can get at least four or five minutes, I'll try to be as brief as possible, to make a few views that I think are very important for the minister to hear. I know it's not according to the Rules of Procedure, but I hope you'll understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20816	Mr. Prelyu, the remaining time available to the parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20817	I'm looking for the time I have based on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20818	Time's running, I'll let you double time, that's four minutes from now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20819	I'll talk about renting land. We in the Ojac municipality tried to meet first of all the cattlemen. The renting of land on Odjac municipality territory was about 5,000 hectares. We have tried to find one solution that can be taken as much as 20 hectares as possible and that it is primarily cattle farmers, who need this to be designed and to increase their agricultural production and which deal exclusively with livestock. We managed to make a deal, but when the bidding came, normally, a few tycoons appeared, where prices went up to 80,000 dinars per hectare. Everyone who deals with agriculture knows that there is first and foremost no economic account for such a thing and that it is simply impossible. We've made sure that a large number of them didn't pay for anything, but in the second year, they've sown culture, and I'm afraid that since they've been with us for three years, they'll be able to process the country without any payments to the state for three years. Another big problem, is it familiar to you, Mr. Minister, and I hope it is, and I'm sure it is, how many Croatian citizens have bought agricultural enterprises, an automatic and complete country belonging to these agricultural enterprises? I think it's inadmissible - to sell your country to foreign citizens in any case allowed. We heard well the other day here from fellow Members of Parliament Radovan Radovanovic that we have a problem in Backo Topoli, where a citizen wore a shirt with marks of the state of Serbia and that he has problems. I ask you, when someone buys in one small environment, which has 5,000 inhabitants, and owns this agricultural goods and these agricultural lands, will tomorrow not the flag fly and chess room. The worst part is, our people are out of a job. On one agricultural good employed by 350 workers who worked about 2,500 hectares of land, now employs 30 workers. So the villages destroyed us, and there's one more thing – everything, and the properties that were stately, belonged to the local communities, for the best reason people wrote it to the cooperatives because all the villages were based on cooperatives and they had selfless help. Now that's not the case. Is there a possibility that all these facilities, as well as a country that is against the law, where pastures were, and given to a association for use, are now being detained, allegedly intended, and we know that since 1991, the Law on Utterins and pastures all the contracts that were subsequently made are practically void. To return the country to the state, to its citizens, and to prevent the sale of state countries, especially foreign tycoons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20820	Thank you. Member of the 64th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was tabled by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. There's a word for Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20821	Already, colleagues who spoke about a member in 64 and some members had talked earlier about using the language in the bill, in fact, the use of the Serbian language. These days, as MPs, we received a bill on the use of language and letters. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to read it yet, but I'm afraid given the terms you use in this law and in most of the bill that you're delivering to us that you're also going to officially introduce this new speech that doesn't understand people who are fish breeders, it's hard to know what aquaculture means, but if you wrote that they're dealing with fish growing, then they'd know as well. I've warned the ministers more than once that you have bad translators, since we know these laws are not done in Serbia, but that they are obtained from the white world. Now, in a clear Serbian language, I will explain a case in this area, and it concerns the municipality of Koseric, where local elections are normally scheduled for June 7th. Yesterday you spoke when I asked you why the loans were stopped in the King, so you explained that it was a matter of commercial banks, but the office of your Ministry was opened in Koserić. There's fully open, clear and loud, when a man comes to ask questions, there are forms that fill out to get a short-term loan from the state, not from commercial banks, and clearly and loudly tell people that they can get credit if they fill out a G17 plus party access form. People were wondering, they thought these loans were given by the state. It was said, yes, it is given by the state, but it was provided by Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20822	The word is from Dr. Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20823	I'm sorry, I assume you know that slander is a crime. The credits we give are taken in banks. We're just subsidizing those loans. He can't apply to any professional credit service. Nobody does that and nobody does that. You either have bad information, or on purpose, for winning political points because of local choices, you're saying something that's not true. Just think about what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20824	There's a word for Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20825	Mr. Dragin, we have been warning you for three days that you have been misbehaving and treating the MPs. That's what you did this time. I know what I'm saying, and you don't have to warn me about what a crime is, but as a People's MP, you as a minister and how I can and must warn me about what a crime is. The crime is, Mr. Dragin, what is being done in the office that is open in the town of Koseric. I claim and I know perfectly well, the information is absolutely accurate, loans are given, and with the request for credit, some loans, may not be the right expression, but in any case – some state aid, subsidies, here are my colleagues who get better at it, maybe subsidies. In any case, certain funds are given, and every citizen from the municipality of Kosjerić, who asks for it, is asked to fill the G17 Plus party's access card. Now I have a little bit more time, so let me explain -- there's a man coming, he's going to say that, the official sitting in the state office says he can, well, fill out these forms, but it would be desirable if you joined the party. The man says, "What party?" Well, G17. So that man says, "I'm sorry, I thought this was a state office and this money is provided by the state, not by the G17 party." The official there says that, of course, it is provided by the state, but the money was provided by Mladjan Dinkic. That, Mr. Dragin, is a felony. I warn you that you are obviously an accomplice to committing a crime of abuse of position and stealing money from Serbian citizens. You out there holding your head, you might be involved in it, which is why you don't give a shit.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20826	I call upon all present, both MPs and members of the Government, to observe the agenda and return to Article 65. Member of the 65th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Dr. Zoran's Machine. The remaining parliamentary group's time is eight minutes ahead of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20827	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, there was an opportunity within the framework of this law to properly regulate fish farming in a closed area, this so-called fish growing. This Article 65 refers to the introduction of fish and other aquatic organisms of foreign origin into aquaculture facilities or to cultivation in a closed or fishing area. For the introduction of such species of fish of foreign origin, it remains to be allowed, as I say, to give the ministry responsible for the environment, not the Ministry of Agriculture, as proposed by this amendment. I don't see why the Ministry of Agriculture is running away from that job, in most countries where there is an organized fish growing, that job is done by the Ministry of Agriculture, giving permits and consent. It would be the basis for the introduction of fish of foreign origin into open water and that, then, the Ministry of Ecology should give consent, because such entry can affect biodiversity, biocenosis disorder and anything that could cause some new species in open waters. Where growing and keeping indoors are concerned, where basic elements of environmental and environmental protection must be respected, there is really no reason, and if an analogy is made for the cultivation and import of any other animal species, and into our country is imported from insides, chinchillas, to Canadian weasels and owls, etc., where it was foreign species of animal, where simply the Ministry of Ecology did not give permission and consent, but the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Veterinary Authority prescribes health conditions. By the same analogy, you can also see fish growing here, some new species in controlled conditions, where there is no and where there should be no possibility of coming out of such fish into open water and disrupting ecological parameters. According to personal knowledge, but also according to your knowledge at the Ministry of Agriculture, there are a number of people interested in importing and growing fish in thermal waters, fish that are already growing, it is African catfish, fish that can exclusively survive in hot water, up to 32 degrees. At eight-degree water temperature, that fish dies. In any way to enter the open water, it will die during the winter period. It is grown in Hungary in several ponds and that there has been a risk of our ecosystem being disrupted potentially, that fish could have reached our country with Danube and Tis and in any way disrupted it. In Hungary, it was not primarily decided by the Ministry of Ecology, but by the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as by many other countries. It was indeed an opportunity to change this provision and make it easier for people who want to grow African catfish or some other fish of foreign origin, but in controlled fisheries conditions, to simplify their procedure for obtaining consent and all other papers for importing and growing these fish, and not to transfer to the Ministry of Ecology again, when, again and for certain jobs, primarily regarding the health status and health protection of these new fish, they will have to contact the Ministry of Agriculture and will have to prescribe conditions under which, as far as health is concerned, these fish can enter our country. I think the chance has been missed and I regrettably find that you have not had the understanding to accept this amendment, and the chance to correct this has been missed, to make it really easier for all potential breeders of some new species of fish, in controlled conditions, that this agreement and regulation of conditions exclusively has the Ministry of Agriculture, because it is a practice in 99% of the countries of Europe, if you will and beyond. I ask you to reconsider, regardless of the distribution of competences under the Ministry's Law, the Ministry of Ecology has the primary jurisdiction regarding fish farming in open waters, not in controlled fish farming, but in open waters. This and the explanation given by the Government and the legislator of this law do not stand and cannot be an obstacle to the adoption of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20828	National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 65th amendment. Mr. Radovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20829	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, by order of Article 65. The draft law provides that the introduction of fish and other aquatic organisms of foreign origin into an aquaculture facility may be carried out on the basis of the permit of the Minister responsible for the protection of the environment. The amendment of the SRS parliamentary group, which I submitted on behalf of the parliamentary group, envisions that the word "aquaculture" be replaced by the word "gathering." Why? Because it is more appropriate for our language to use the word "gaining" than the word "aquaculture", which is proposed by the amendment. In particular, the question is whether it is necessary in Article 65 to give permission to a minister or ministry, of course, the minister signs that permit, and which ministries should all be involved in granting this permit? The basis for the justification for the submission of this amendment was found, first of all, in Article 1. The bill, in paragraph 2, where it is said among other things - the provisions of this law refer to the cultivation of fish and other aquatic organisms, quite appropriate to our territory and our language. It may be easier to regulate the issue of authorisation when importing fish and other aquatic organisms, if import is concerned. What happens if the competent minister's permission, as provided for in Article 65, is missing from the ministry. A particular problem arises in this case when permission to enter the fish and other aquatic organisms is expected. If someone predicted that the words - importing and exporting equally, have the same meaning, then we can interpret that there has been a unilateral application of the Special Trade Agreement, where our country suffered damages of 20m euros in February and April. Only if it's a permit for the use of the facility, and not for the possibility of bringing in fish and other aquatic organisms, it might make sense. This is how I feel the amendment is entirely justified.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20830	Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Savic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20831	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 66. Proposal for a cattle law and immediately reminding me that this article 66 refers to the preservation of the genetic reserves of domestic animals. The amendment I submitted to this article refers first of all to something else, or more than once, my colleagues warned that the word "Minister" should be replaced by "Ministership". I did so precisely in this article, and I would like to remind both the legislator and the present Minister Dragin that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia defines that the tasks are done by state authorities, not by the elders of these state bodies. Of course, authorities sign certain papers and documents, but the ministry is essentially responsible for these matters. I will once again appeal to the minister to adopt this amendment and to agree with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20832	Parliamentarians Zeljko Tomic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted together to the 70th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yes, Mrs. Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20833	My colleague Tomic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 70, which otherwise reads: In the event of an emergency or a state of immediate war danger or of natural or other disasters that threaten the preservation of the minimum number of breeding material necessary for the reproduction of domestic animals, that is, if the biodiversity of domestic animals in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is at greater risk, the Ministry can order specific measures to prevent domestic animals from being threatened, and that is: the ban on domestic animals and the ban on slaughtering domestic animals. We believe that it is also necessary to bring a position 2 which reads: "For the damages and losses incurred by the application of the necessary measures, the owner of the livestock shall have the right to compensation for the cost of the commander of the measure". Why do we think that? Because there is a Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that clearly no one respects, nor does the Government, nor does the Committee on Agriculture, because they have not accepted this amendment, and thank God, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Legislative Committee has been fenced. Article 35. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for an instrument of compensation for damages or losses resulting from the implementation of orders by state authorities. So it's a constitutional obligation. You are obliged to specify an instrument, so in which way a private person may have the opportunity to compensate for the damage resulting from this item 1. On the other hand, what's also amazing is that you didn't respect your constitutional obligation, that you as a ministry don't know that neither does the government. On the other hand, if you knew, so you did not put it into this position, or Article 70, that means that you admit very indirectly that you are not a democratic state, that you are always right and that a citizen, when it comes to such a government, can always expect only damage and there is no way to make up for his loss.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20834	Members of the 71st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Zoran Nikolic. There's no answer for word. The 77th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20835	It is clear to me that there is an intensities of both the state and this ministry that only high-quality breeding material that has all the necessary documentation is imported. It is simply amazing to prohibit and restrict the import of animals that do not possess documentation of production skills. There are people, I'm a breeder of dogs and a kinological judge for a large group of dogs, and I know how to import animals with the necessary documentation and the necessary quality. But there are people who don't particularly care, and it's important for them to import quality breeding material without the necessary documentation. So, I don't think in this law it's necessary for these people to limit their need.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20836	National MP Miroslav Marinkovic submitted to the 81st amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 81st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic and Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 84th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20837	I have already drawn attention several times to the fact that between the Veterinary Act, which has clearly defined which areas of work are covered by the veterinary service, and this law, there is indeed a problem in the collision of jurisdiction. We have been distracted several times by veterinary chambers and have simply said that there have been warnings made, but if the warnings are repeated continuously, then I have the impression that it is actually a derrogation of the Veterinary Act, which is the same ministry that proposed this law today. It is amazing that the veterinary service practically ceases to have many powers under this law, and these powers are given to other services, in this case a agricultural inspector, who is not competent, or does not possess adequate knowledge that he could successfully carry out those types of controls and does not possess the knowledge obtained in the studies, which are carried out by veterinary programmes, or that he is a geneticist in academic speciality. In fact, if we see what this government has done with the veterinary service, that is, it has given them only 60% of the resources needed to implement preventive protection of the health of domestic animals and that it has shown on several occasions how much it cares about healthy food and the prevention of infectious diseases of domestic animals, which and how economically expensive they can cost this country, not to speak in any other way, then it is clear to me that this way continues to derogate the veterinary profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20838	Parliamentarians Milan Dimitrijevic and Zeljko Tomic submitted together to the 88th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Donka Banovic. The time remaining for your parliamentary group is seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20839	My colleagues have submitted an amendment to Article 88, and in that chapter are criminal provisions, i.e. economic offences. We suggest that point 5 be deleted here. Point 5) is provided that, if it performs artificial insemination and is not listed in the Register of Artists of Insemination, that legal person would be punished, i.e. it would be a commercial offence. Why do we propose to delete? Because we believe that veterinary organisations registered to carry out veterinary practice do not need to be registered in the Register of Insemination Artists. They acquire their rights under the Law on Veterinary and Licensing by the Veterinary Chamber of Serbia and cannot be limited to these rights now by this law, which is not in accordance with the Veterinary Act, as well as with the above-mentioned regulations. No retroactive application of this Regulation is possible to limit the rights of veterinary organisations already acquired. For these reasons, we believe that point 5 should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20840	National MP Milan Nikolic submitted to the 88th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 89th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. There's no answer for word. Member of the 89th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bortic, who was accepted by the government and the Committee on Agriculture, and the legislator considers it legally possible, so I find that he has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 89th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 90 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 91 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Mr. Plužarević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20841	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, a member of the 91st regulates the misdemeanours of natural persons. This area refers to Article 38 of this Law, where a natural person who performs artificial insemination is not professionally and is not registered, or is not registered in the Registry of Insemination, run by the Ministry, will be fined from 30,000 to 50,000 dinars. Our amendment proposes that the fine be between 15,000 and 25,000 dinars. This punishment will also be able to stimulate this artificial insemination in such a way as not to be rigid. I'll use only a few sentences concerning this law to remind you, do you, gentlemen of the Ministry, know, and I believe you know that livestock farming in Serbia has led to the lowest branch in the region. This level corresponds only to a small number of people, and most cattlemen, most cattle farmers today just shake their hands and say: they are blind and deaf. In Srem, we used to load one million pigs, the pyrotic end was the sheep's end, the forest was the cattle's end, there's nothing today. I'm asking you if in the next period, you're going to bring in at least 50% of those years when this production was maximum. Don't bring us noves, snails, guts, and who knows what other animals, when you know our tradition and culture of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20842	Thank you, Mr. Sluzzard. The 92th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 94th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Popovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20843	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 94. The bill on livestock, which reads, is replaced by "a year" by "six months". The Government rejected the amendment with the following explanation: The amendment is not accepted because the procedure for the adoption of sublaws requires a longer period of time than the deadline proposed by the amendment, due to the existence of a number of sublegal acts and the complexity of the subject-matter of the regulation of those acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20844	As we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Sasa Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, want the final word? I apologize, Minister. Mr. Zivkov is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20845	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, and I believe that if the MP submits an amendment, and he has passed all the committees and passed the Government's opinion, he has the right to defend his amendment. Since I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of point 8, I have not been read to defend the amendment or the Ministry has accepted the amendment, so I have not been told.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20846	Mr. Zivkov, I would remind you that you have submitted to Article 2 an amendment which, according to its contents and, according to the evaluation of the Legislative Committee, is identical with the amendments submitted by other MPs. So that story is over, and since you have so dramatically abused the Rules of Procedure and my good will, I give you a warning that we would not be in these situations in the future. Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Sasha Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20847	I'd like to say that after the debate, we adopted two amendments. The first amendment to Article 3 submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic – in Article 3 paragraph 1 point 17, is deleted. Second amendment to Article 50. The bill, which was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic, which reads in Article 50(4), is amended and reads as follows: "The breeder is obliged to provide special care and treatment for sick, injured and exhausted domestic animals, in accordance with the regulations governing animal health care and welfare". So that's the one that's being accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20848	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 16th point of the agenda: – PROPOST OF THE LAW ON THE GOODS OF LIVESINJA (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Jadranka Jovisić, Tijana Nikolić, Milan Avramović, Sladjan Mijaljevic, Nikola Žutić, Srboljub Živanovic, Zoran Popović, Dragan Živković, Dobrislav Prelić, Vitomir Plužarić, Petar Jojić, Gordana Pavnović, Milan M. Nikolić, Radica Jocić, Radiša Ilić, Dušanka Vuković, MiloradBuč, Dejan Mirović, Milan Vjeljinović, Vladjan Žarjan Žarjanažarić, Miljavić, Miražan Žažan Žarić, Mović, Žaljić, Žaljić Žalić and Žalić. Žalić. Žokić, Žokić, Žokić. By written amendment, MPs Svetlana Stojanovic and Zoran Nikolic withdrew on 15 May 2009 to Article 84. The draft law and Tijana Nikolic, 18 May 2009, on Article 87. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture, with correction, and from the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs DonkaBanovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. No one's answering for a word? The 3rd amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. No one's answering for a word? The 5th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Buha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to the explanation of my amendment, let me say one general position regarding the law, and this is about the name of the law. The promoter chose a definition that is not in the spirit of Serbian. I don't think that's just the case in this law, but that's the case with the other laws that we get and that enters the congregation procedure. It is obvious that linguists are not esteemed guests in this institution, and I propose to the government and the legislators of the law, the ministries, that before they prepare certain laws, the linguists must consult, because it is obvious that what we are getting here does not correspond to the spirit and the meaning of the Serbian language. I have invested on behalf of the SRS an amendment to Article 5 paragraph 1 point 18) of indent 1 in order to add the words "media abuse" after the words "sustainability of animals". The argument of the Government states: The amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 5 point 18 of the Law defines animal abuse that can be physical and psychological abuse, and Article 7 paragraph 1 of point 24 of the Law prohibits the killing, abuse and inciting of animals to aggression and anti-natural behaviour for the production of films, advertisements and other works on film tape, video tape and other bearers of image and tone, as well as the placing on the market, rental and public display of such films, advertisements and other works. This also prohibits any media abuse of animals. I think the government in its position has missed and had to accept this amendment, because media abuse is far beyond the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20850	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Agriculture adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs DonkaBanovic, MilicaVojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Arsen Đuric. There's no answer for word. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The word is Mr. Radisa Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20851	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. The proposal for a law on animal welfare, which reads in Article 7(1) of point 7 after the word “gloves” point is deleted and the words “and carnivores that cause damage to the population” are added. In fact, this point 7 prohibits the capture of animals by traps caused by pain or injury, except in the case of catching harmful rodents. First of all, I would like to ask the attention of those citizens who are dealing with livestock and who suffer great damage from wild animals, to pay attention to what the minister may say after this presentation. The SRS believes that traps can be caught by carnivores that cause great damage to the population by destroying a significant part of the stock, such as foxes, wolves, plants, jackals, maybe even bears. Now what do cattlemen who suffer great harm from wolves who are able to halve their stock? If those cattle can't kill that animal, they can even catch her. You replied in your reply – that the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the amendment cannot safely conclude which animals are referred to the term “meats causing damage to the population”. Of course, in Serbia this can refer to these mentioned animals. We probably won't have a situation for a cattleman on a Cave or on a Bath to do any damage to a lion, tiger, or jaguar. That's why you could accept this amendment, and the Ministry could rule out what kind of sublaw they were. The penalty someone would pay if they caught an animal moving from 100,000 to 1,000,000 dinars. It's worth it to someone to have their cattle stock destroyed by wolves, but to catch them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20852	Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Vukovic. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: Mr. Nikola, how much I had in mind about the time that the time had passed when the messenger had finished with his speech. Several times you don't turn off the microphone when a man stops talking. Since he doesn't do it, then it should be done by the MPs when they're out of time. Mrs. Radeta, I am only obliged to inform you that the time that counts is the time that the MP takes advantage of. So if the clock continues, believe that absolutely not one single second has been entered anymore. You can check with the secretary. I guarantee the complete accuracy of the time measured. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: Mr. Nikola, about measuring time I trust you nothing.) You can believe it. Now I give my word to Mr. Slobodan Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20853	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. I am submitting the Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia to an amendment to the Animal Welfare Act, which requires that, in Article 7(1), point (10), after the word "those animals" be placed stuck and add the words "with the permission of the competent authorities". The explanation – the amendment is specified which live animals can be used to feed other animals, but with the permission of the competent authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20854	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The word is Dr. Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20855	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, in Article 7, where everything is defined as being prohibited in terms of animal welfare, paragraph 29), where it stands – to use poisons and other chemical agents that cause pain, suffering and death of animals, except for the control of the rodent population, i.e. deratization, I wanted this point to be added to the view of animals for scientific research purposes. If this is decidently prohibited from using toxins and other chemical agents, there is simply a need for a variety of but primarily scientific and research reasons to use or perform experiments on animals with certain chemical substances, to be the most specific toxins. In our country, and in many other countries, there is a problem of mycotoxin, as harmful substances present in animal food, produced by fungi, so if this provision in Article 7 of point 29 were consistently and explicitly applied, it would be essentially impossible to perform such experiments, because mycotoxins are still chemically toxic matter. Because it's decadent here that it's possible to use toxins and other chemicals only in terms of population reduction, meaning the multiplication of certain animals, or in terms of deratization, means destroying, above all, rodents. I felt that it was simply necessary, in order to not deny the rights of scientific research organisations, to be able to perform animal tours with various chemical and toxic matter, to supplement this here in point 29).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20856	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Jadranka Jovisic, who was accepted by the Government and the Committee on Agriculture, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment with the correction is legally possible, so I find that this amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Vojić-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20857	First of all, let me say that I'm really glad that this law is in front of parliament, because we really have a lot of problems with many of the things that this law touches, as a country above all, and animal lovers, I certainly am one of those. Article 7 sets out very clearly and precisely what is forbidden and what are the elements of animal abuse. Very precisely indeed in many points, I think 35, lists what is forbidden, but from all of these, means the population of the complete animal fund is apart from only two categories – one is official dogs, all that others are not allowed to do, the other are animals, I guess the diggers, who are loading, overloading and unloading, in accordance with this law, can be applied to the electric driver. I simply don't understand why the category of official dogs is excluded from these measures that are forbidden for animal welfare. I understand, because it says here in the law that in official dogs, electrical energy and chemical matter can be used in training. Gentlemen, I responsibly claim as someone who has been involved for over 30 years that there are methods of training official dogs that are absolutely non-violent and where neither chemical matter nor electrical energy are applied. I'd like you to listen to me say that, because I think it's very important that you know that, and obviously you didn't have that in mind. I think there are such techniques and there are people who know these techniques. They are nothing special and I think that everyone and how well-known Pavlov's reflex, the conditional reflex, and that this is how animals have been trained so far. I know it's very difficult today when we want to make money in a short time to use such methods, because they're longer than electricity or chemical substances. So it's very important that from these categories of abuse and endangering all of these other species of animals that you've listed, you can't exclude official dogs and you can't even exempt these animals of the hoof, which are supposed to be used to feed people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20858	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The word is Mr. Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20859	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, pursuant to Article 147. Rules of Procedure, I submit an amendment to the animal welfare bill myself. Article 8(7) The bill reads: "The Minister responsible for Veterinary Affairs (hereinafter referred to as the Minister) prescribes closer to the conditions and ways of organising the public display of animals". Why did I suggest that the word "Minister" be replaced by "Ministership"? We in the SRS believe that jobs from this activity should be carried out by a forward ministry as an institution, not as an individual minister, because this is a public event in the form of competitions, exhibitions and events and other forms of public representation of animals. Each event must be set on the basis of the relevant opinion of a number of competent experts from the veterinary branches. In addition to the above, the fact that a final version of a certain regulation should also be taken into account by experts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20860	National MP Branimir Djokic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 9 of the amendment, paragraph 5, Article 142 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, a representative of the proposer accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. No one asked for a word. The 11th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20861	Article 11 speaks of who can do all animal training, and says: "The training of animals can be performed by a legal and physical person, i.e. an entrepreneur who is listed in the Animal Training Register, who runs the Ministry. The legal person and the entrepreneur shall be entered in the Register of Animal Training Persons if they meet the conditions regarding animal-holding facilities and if they have at least one person trained for animal welfare. "This attitude does not mention a person who is trained for training itself, so that this amendment, in fact, consists in a home to add "and a person who is trained for animal training", because a person who is trained for animal welfare is not the same as a person who is trained for animal training. So we believe that this amendment should be accepted and that the promoter has forgotten this important link.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20862	Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20863	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11. The bill, which states that in Article 11, paragraphs 7, 9 and 10, the word "minister" in the corresponding decline is replaced by "ministration". According to the Government's explanation, the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for not accepting Amendment 20. We should now rewind where it is and find out what the Government has given in Amendment 20, given that in Article 11 paragraph 7, "the entry and erasure from the Animal Training Register is based on a solution made by the minister", item 9, "the minister prescribes closer conditions regarding animal-holding facilities" and attitude 10, "the minister, with the agreement of the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Defence, prescribes a way to conduct animal training". My amendment refers to these very views, as I said, and the word "minister" is replaced by the word "ministerism".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20864	Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Mr. Maksimovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20865	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor the Ministry, the amendment I have submitted to Article 12. The proposal reads: in Article 12(2), the words "thirds of gravity" are replaced by the words "half of gravity". What does this mean? Practically, it means unlimited work of working animals. The reason I submitted this amendment is because this member of the law refers to working animals in the service, or official dogs, police and military, I don't think there should be at least half the gravity, because I think there's no interference here. When I read this law, I can't look back, and that's what hit me specifically, on the Labour Act. Of course, you're going to ask what the Law on Animal Welfare has to do with the Law on Animal Well-being, but although I agree that animal welfare is a very important thing, that animals are unconscious beings to which man provides protection. However, I would like to read you article 90. The labour law, and you will connect why and how this relates to the animal welfare law. Article 90 says: "A woman who is employed during the first 32 weeks of pregnancy cannot work overtime and at night, if such work would be harmful to her health and child health, based on the findings of the competent health authority". What do I mean? Unfortunately, human pregnant women work almost full of pregnancy, and you know very well how private employers do it, work until the last day of childbirth, minors without any protection, and we do animal protection. Still, our priority should be the human race. I totally agree that you need to protect the animals and this is a good law. Of course, if you accept amendments from the SNS MPs, which I think are really in place, but you need to take a little more care of people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20866	Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, a representative of the proposer accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Kragovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20867	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in Article 18, I have suggested that the word "Minister" be replaced by "Ministership". By the way, it relates to the area of special protection for animal welfare, such as the holding, breeding and transport of animals, and I think it is too much of an obligation for the minister to accept all these obligations alone, it is sufficient for the ministry to accept the responsibility of the veterinary and animal protection area. On the other hand, I'd like to repeat the question. If we have defined in Article 7 here that animal abuse is forbidden, I will remind you that the KIM occupations currently abused citizens, as well as animals, by throwing tear gas in abnormal quantities in time for almost a month, and not from the personal guns of police or soldiers, but by bringing trucks with 12-year-old pitchers and throwing tear gas. As a result of this tear gas, many citizens are sick, and the stock fund died in the Brdjani settlement, so that those hosts who had livestock, chickens, chickens, turkeys, pigeons, all of them died, and those who had been growing bees, those bees were extinct, and many got the feeling that they were attacking everything, including man.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20868	The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20869	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 21. The proposal for a law on animal welfare which reads: Article 21, paragraph 1, after the word "position" deletes the point, adds stuck and adds the words "as well as to ensure the availability of light and the necessary amounts of fresh air". In addition to providing space for the minimum movement of animals, it is necessary in the accommodation room to provide sufficient light and the necessary amounts of air. What the Government has given in terms of not accepting the amendments, I think it does refer specifically to Article 20, although the 21st article decidently refers to animals that are deprived of freedom of movement. However, this provision in Article 20 has a broader attitude toward animal accommodation. The argument given by the Government says - the amendment is not accepted for reasons of Article 21. The bill refers to the welfare of animals deprived of freedom of movement, and the general conditions which the owner, or that holder of the animal, is required to provide the animal, such as light and the required amount of air, are set out in Article 20. It's a bill of law. I think that you, Mr. Minister, and the Government and the Committee were able to accept this amendment, since nothing would be wrong in Article 21 to find these specifics to ensure the availability of light and the necessary amounts of fresh air.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20870	Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20871	This amendment is not just about the minister - the ministry. If you look at attitude 1 and otherwise that member refers to the animal carrier register, the register is run by the ministry and not run by the minister. Why isn't the minister taking him? How can the Ministry do this now and not the Minister? Look how you got into a mental trap. Like that commercial - Reid kills to death. That's the thing. When Brigitte Bardo orders, then the animal welfare law, I guess in the next phase, the law on the welfare of people will finally come, because according to ads, pets are better fed than citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Hunters are dead, and they can't get points. Someone can't understand that a pig exists to be food. The fact that someone's growing affinity towards pigs or the one who doesn't have it for goats, that's another thing. I'm afraid you're not exaggerating in this, because the Orca sues the man in the apartment building, say, because the kittens are in his basement. That's all I'm afraid of.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20872	The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The word is Mrs. Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20873	Article 23 speaks about the registers of animal carriers. In this position, the amendment reads as follows: ''The entry and removal from the Register of Animal Carriers shall be carried out on the basis of a decision made by the Minister (ordinarily, I also note that in the previous and in this law the Minister is responsible for all and all things), within 30 days of the date of submission of the request for registration, i.e. the creation of conditions for erasure from the Register of Animal Carriers. ''It is clear to us that the Law on Administrative Procedure provides for a solution within a month and that is fine. Since this is a law on animal welfare, and since we travel, and I suppose you who travel only around the city, notice very often trucks, with cyrada or no cyrada, in which animals are transported, at a temperature of more than 40 degrees outside, under abnormal conditions, without food and water, we felt that sometimes it was necessary to react very quickly and predict the possibility to take away a carrier's right to be a carrier within a shorter period. What's interesting, and what you're writing about as government, which is why you didn't accept this amendment, is that you're exactly referring to this Law on Administrative Procedure. When I took a moment to draw your attention that you did not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 35, you did not react and I saw how wisely you kept all of what I said at the time. I insist, all the laws in this country should be respected. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must be respected, therefore, by that member of the cattle law you must correct, Article 70.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20874	Member of the 23rd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The word is Mr. Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20875	I have submitted an amendment to Article 23, Animal Carrier Register. I do not want to defend the minister at all, it is obvious that he has succumbed to EU pressure or strong associations in Serbia that want animal welfare. I understand they want animals well, like all of us. First, I don't think there is, at least in Serbia, a man who doesn't like one of the animals that's his pet. I can't really understand that one of these animal welfare associations is looking for, for example, in Article 5, regular number 29) says – an object for hygiene and beauty of animals is an object in which hygiene and beauty of the skin, hair and nails of animals are performed. Don't tell me someone wants their machete or dog to paint their fingernails. I guess he loves that animal so much, he'll do it. When you look at how we live in Serbia today, I think it's unnecessary. When I look at only Article 14, they're psychopaths if they're doing this. Cut the tongue with calves, disable the roosters to advertise by corn, and that is what devocalization is said professionally. They're really sick minds, if they're weaving something, or I don't know, shortening the beak of animals, etc. It should be banned, specifically, not banned, but first someone goes on psychiatric surveillance, and then you just let them keep the animals. I'm sorry, I mean, this seems to have been done by an animal protection company that has thousands.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20876	To Article 24. The amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Miss Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20877	Dear Presidency, representatives of the government, respected citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on animal welfare relating to the erasure of Article 3 and 4 in Article 24. Article 3 states that animals must be monitored during crossings by the person responsible for caring for animal welfare and trained for animal welfare. Article 4 says that the companion prepares his lives for transport, oversees them and takes care of them during transport. As I said, I suggested erasing these two attitudes, for the reason that the carrier himself must be trained for animal welfare and he himself is obliged to carry out the transport in a way that ensures animal protection and animal welfare. We mainly have domestic transport of animals, and these are mostly short relations that do not cross a distance of 65 km, counting from the loading site to the unloading site. Therefore, the Serbian Progressive Party considers it unnecessary to burden animal or carrier owners with the cost of animal companion fees.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20878	National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20879	Do I have a word? Excuse me, if you can give me back these 10 seconds, I suggest my amendment in the field of animal transport that you (President:I returned. Consider it returned. Thank you... ban the transport of animals along with dangerous waste. I'm going to comment on a few more members of this bill. It says – it is forbidden to use live animals to feed other animals unless it is the only way to feed those animals. You first write a law of 90 members, 70 pages, all for the purpose of humane treatment of animals, then by that same law provide that these animals are brought to life on the table of other animals. Article 7, Section 18, it is prohibited to expose animals to direct influence by adverse weather conditions or oxygen deficiency. If this stance were literally applied, it would destroy livestock farming in half of Serbia's territory. There are no peasants in the mountainous-mounts of Serbia, where cattle spend most of the day on pasture, which at least a hundred times in the course of the year, especially in the autumn and winter, will not violate this stance of the law. The next thing, sick, injured and exhausted animals, as well as burdened animals, starting with a third of gravity, can't be used to work. I'd understand that there's a formulation here, I can't use it for hard work. We've already heard, pregnant women, and we know that, they work until the end of pregnancy, and we see that animals are in a much better position. The next thing, the owner, or holder of an animal, can't be a face less than 18 years old. I get the circumstances, I know about brothers and sisters who are under 18, live alone, have one cow. Under this law, they'll have to sell that cow. They'll have nothing to live on. Unfortunately, I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20880	Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The word is Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20881	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, again an old story, Minister, Ministry and Mr Krasic said a little bit about what the essence of this whole dilemma is. The minister can do something, something can't work. Who was the one who determined where the minister would be closer to determining, where the ministry would prescribe, the question is? In any case, the ministry is an institution, the minister is an executive body, consumer goods in DOS governments from the beginning and so far. When you haven't already accepted this amendment, I propose an intervention to Article 14 of the Law, point 10, where it says - disabling the rooster to advertise by hooking. I suggest that the minister draws closer to the decree that the roosters will corn, and so you have in these 14 points a lot more that the minister might be able to prescribe.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20882	Members of the 31st Amendment were submitted by MP Radic Ilic. The word is Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20883	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 31. Proposal for a law on animal welfare. Just to inform the public who is following this session, according to this Article 31, and well to be heard by those who have domestic animals, who cultivate them, that since the adoption of this law, they will not simply be able to slaughter them for the needs of food. Article 31 reads: ''Restraint, stunning and slaughtering animals, other than livestock and rabbits slaughtered in the household and for their own purposes, can only be performed by a person trained in this type of business. ''The amendment of the SRS erases those words and replaces them with words, and the person who owns the animals. This amendment gives rights to animal owners, who keep them for their own purposes, primarily for food, to slaughter them themselves in households. I think such a legal proposal, first of all, will damage many of the hosts in Serbia, who simply won't be able to slaughter what they have, pig or something else, for their own purposes, but will have to turn to what it says here, a person who is trained, or trained to do business. The question is, who's training those faces, who's giving them certificates? Also, to mention, punishment for slaughtering animals in the household. If a natural person does so, specifically, if the host slaughters his pig for Christmas, without the help of a person who is trained to do business, they will pay a fine of 5,000 to 50,000 dinars. This is absurd. You are also calling again for instructions from the European Council, decisions of the European Council, conventions, etc., and the Serb hosts remain to be punished when they slaughter pigs for Christmas, Easter and cross-faith.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20884	Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The word has the magistrate Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20885	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we meet again with poor legal terminology. Article 31 again states that the minister will prescribe a programme of training on animal welfare under Article 2. I draw attention to the government and the present minister, imagine Mr. Minister that in some law it says that MPs are passing laws instead of the National Assembly. Or that there's a law that says, that judge and he's making a verdict, instead of a court of law. No law says that, and it's a completely wrong way of expressing it. I really don't understand why you use that termology in a law that should be applied by the authorities of the state administration. According to the Constitution, according to the State Administration Act, according to the Ministry Act. The ministry is a state administration body, i.e. a state body, a government body. Only a State authority may adopt appropriate legal acts, general or individual. The Minister can't do that at all. Of course, the minister does the technical work, but not on his own behalf. You don't do it like Sasha Dragin, you do it as someone who heads a government body, in this case, the Ministry of Agriculture. So all acts that come from the ministry are acts that relate to this particular ministry, not to the minister. The minister is a political figure. Today it is a minister, tomorrow it isn't, but the ministry is a state institution. Therefore, in all the laws passed by the National Assembly, not by the MPs, but by the National Assembly, it should be stated that all general and individual acts related to the application of this or any other law should be brought by the ministry, as an authority of the state administration, and not by the minister, as a political figure currently standing at the head of a ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20886	National MPs Donka Bankovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. The word is Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20887	DSS MPs have submitted several similar amendments to different members, and it is a matter of time-limits. In some places, it is predicted that a certain procedure, erasing from a register, or enrolment lasts for 30 days. In almost all places, we suggested that this deadline be reduced to 15 days. Article 33 speaks of animal tours, i.e. animal tours, can be carried out by legal and natural persons who are registered in the animal survey register, and that register is managed by the Ministry. We feel that it is necessary to shorten the time limit when it is established that there is an infringement or that the conditions provided for in this law are not met. Therefore, the 30-day period should be reduced to 15 and should be deleted from the register as soon as possible by a legal or natural person registered in that register.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20888	Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Donka Bankovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20889	The subject matter of Article 34 refers to the conduct of an animal survey and the adoption of a solution which can carry out such examinations, and it is said that it is necessary, as the Law provides in the administrative procedure, to adopt a solution within 30 days of the date of submission of the application. We really think that some deadlines of government and state must simply speed up, because the matter that is spoken of here is very delicate and specific and may need to be reacted faster than the law sometimes does. If it is predicted that it is necessary to do so within 30 days, some things may not be done. Among other things, in this article, I would like to comment on something that appears in this law as a problem with Articles 13 and 14 of Article 1, which refers to the purchase of ears and tails in dogs, so Article 13 prohibits all of this, and Article 14 allows in exceptional cases and says that it should be conducted either by trained veterinarians or breeders themselves, which is simply very strange, because then it is about animal abuse. You're telling me that it's possible that one breeder, who doesn't have to be a veterinarian and who doesn't have to have veterinary knowledge, is applying anesthesia, and when buying ears, you have to apply anesthesia if you're talking about animal welfare. It just seems to me that this law, which normally has to be passed, compares the matter to which this law refers, is not really directed and, above all, I would not comment on this story about how much pregnancy is in a woman, how much time is done, or how much time is left, simply for different types of pregnancy or gravity is different, so the deadlines are determined. I'd say this law wasn't designed enough and didn't take care of all the elements, so you have a conflict of jurisdiction, you have it that the minister doesn't know what he's no longer doing in these laws that you've predicted. It just seems to me that if he works only under this law, a man will work 24 hours 365 days a year. That's what you predicted with all the other laws that apply to agriculture. It seems very important to me that you separate some of the things in this law and I'm building myself, as a kinological judge, I've seen what's about what's my humble knowledge in this area, so it seems to me that you've made a really number of mistakes that can be problematic, like the standards of race dogs forbid buying and rapping and earing, and you're allowing in Article 14. Then, if you look at the practice of all other European laws, you are not allowed anywhere to buy ears and tails in dogs, you allow them in Article 14 paragraph 1. I know what it means when you say it extremely. That means we have a way out of what you've restricted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20890	National MP Marko Milenkovic submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, let me inform you that the work of our gallery session today will be attended by a group of students, representatives of secondary school graduates from Leskovec, who are presently visiting the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We welcome you. We want you to follow our work. The word has an MP, Vlad Milojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20891	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 40 of the Law on Animal Well-being, where the care is added to the word - food. The promoter stated in this article that we must provide the animals with adequate accommodation, care and care before, after and during the tour. The promoter did not include the diet, or he predicted it with the word – concern. Ladies and gentlemen, and in this member of the minister's office, he's making arrangements for the care and treatment of the animals he sees. Given what the minister needs to prescribe, it's no wonder our livestock is in this state. I think it would be better for the minister to check why the parent services when receiving the documentation for subsidies the state gives for large livestock from farmers charge from two to two and a half thousand per head. The owner of 10 large cattle when handing over documents should pay 20-25,000 dinars, and whoever does not have a subsidy of 12,000 per throat.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20892	Members of the 40 amendments were submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Here you go, Mr. Machine.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20893	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 44 which more clearly defines how animal tours are carried out for educational purposes and can only be carried out if pain, suffering, fear, stress, injury or death are not caused. I think it's absolutely something to stand for. It is also further defined that basic and secondary schools are allowed to exercise on live animals that areobservative, and in higher education institutions in primary studies it is allowed to carry out exercises that do not disrupt the life and well-being, that is, physical, psychological and genetic integrity of animals. The amendment refers to the eradication of this last attitude, which stands "in primary and secondary schools and in higher education institutions, other exercises cannot be carried out on the corpses of animals deprived of life in order to carry out practical exercises". I actually think that this is a completely unnecessary attitude, because if the views are performed in such a way that no pain, suffering, stress or death of animals can be caused, then I don't know what bodies of animals can be talked about here, and if it's about, I say, killing some animals during an examination for educational purposes, whether as a result of the extraction of blood, that the needle is stabbed by the wrong blood vessel or injured by the nerve vagus, or other vital centres to cause the death of the animal, then again there is no reason and reason to ban the execution of the autopsy, simply for students or students to see what was the cause of the death of the animals if a certain experiment has been performed, especially if we are talking about experiments from pharmacology in medical or veterinary studies. I think this attitude here is completely unnecessary, and he's scrambling with Article 38, where he stands to see animals can be conducted for education and professional training. I want to encourage the minister and associates to reconsider this amendment once again and eventually accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20894	Your parliamentary group has one minute left as a parliamentary group. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 45th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Pocurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20895	Article 45, as it is integrated in the Bill's proposal, reads: The publication of scientific papers cannot be carried out in the event that the view on animals is carried out contrary to the provisions of this law. This is an obvious example when a legislator makes you make an amendment, try to change something, and we tried it in our proposal, given that once an ethical commission to protect animal welfare or ethical advice can, in some circumstances, allow the description to be implemented. Why? Why is one of the illogicalities that seems so at first sight, if we go back and look at when animal views can be carried out, in point 3 of Article 38, it is clear, for the diagnosis of treatment. If we're looking at the procedure, it's 30 days from the minister. What if the need for diagnosis and treatment is sudden, acute, let's say the swine flu that was, so it needs to be done quickly, because if the ethics committee doesn't think it's possible and should be done, then why can't it be published. What does that finally mean in Article 45? Is it then a tour, if it's done contrary to the provisions of the law? What the legislator then described as a tour, rather than a criminal act, a procedure done by law cannot be called a tour because the tour is defined as a legal clear category of what it implies, which it approves. It's one of the nonsensuals. Another nonsens, how can an animal not suffer, say, pain, fear, suffering, even in a simple inspection or observation of an animal, how that animal, in one of its members, says that it cannot be given anaesthesia, the other can be given anesthesia if it leads to this or that. You can't give anesthesia in some experiments to the biological, nervous viability of the brake. In medicine, it's familiar. Animals must be sacrificed. So, there are circumstances that are dissonant in this law, so that we don't see what would be a problem if such a member were accepted, maybe he would skip one of the procedures and speeds of work and the approvals that the minister gives, in his own opinion, would cover the official and official name of the medical, veterinary, scientific procedure, which is called a tour and which as such should be explained or that Article 45 simply doesn't exist. This provision in it wouldn't be so formalized, something that's a sighting if it was done against the law, then it's not a sighting. That would be the meaning of our amendment, which I think would be logical for you to accept, because in Articles 42, 39 and 38 alone, you have a lot of illogicality in the selection of the conditions in which the experiment or the tour is done.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20896	You've left 30 more seconds for your MP group. National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tijana Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find it has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Mirko Munjic submitted to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranka Jovisic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find it has become an integral part of the bill. The 59th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 66 of the amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. Mr. Plužarević wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20897	We submitted an amendment to Article 66, where my colleagues mostly commented. And we propose to our amendments that the ministry be competent, when it is inevitable that we and this minister support it in some members where it should be, where the profession and science say so, but when it is not, as it is now in Article 66, we suggest that it be corrected and that it stands "ministration", or my colleagues already said in a comment that general and individual acts are brought by the ministry, not by the minister. I have the opportunity to comment on this law now. Is it possible that he is an advocating law on hunting, which has not found consensus in many government and non-governmental organisations for a long time, as well as in the Ministry itself? The aim of this law is to derail the rights, cultures and traditions of hunting in Serbia. I fear 100,000 hunters in Serbia will be treated with this law, which is not in all principles logical and legal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20898	Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Do you want a word, Mrs. Pop-Lazic? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20899	Article 68 states that the person who finds an abandoned animal is obliged to notify the nearest registered shelter for animal care without delay. In the amendment I submitted on behalf of the SRS, I ask that the point be replaced by a comma and that the text be added "in accordance with its possibilities and conditions". First, I want to know what "no delay" means. Could such unspecified words be justified by someone here in the text, especially because in the explanation the Government responds that it cannot accept the amendment because it implies by the very text of this article that it is not intended for the person who finds the abandoned animal to notify the competent shelter. So, everything that isn't written as if it doesn't exist, and it brings people into one situation that they may not be able to do it, they have no way of doing it, they have no idea where, how, so even though there's no sanctions, you're giving them one obligation that they may not be able to meet, and yet you say "no delays" and someone will appreciate it. I think this whole provision is pointless to you. Perhaps she could, within the framework of another member, exist and predict other options or some closer to the definition of all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20900	It's been two minutes, bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20901	Here, I'm done. Since this is something that is necessary for us to enter the EU, you yourself say that the compliance of this law with EU legislation allows smooth import, export and transport of animals, here is the adoption of this law, I believe that this Kacini will be right when he says that we will get white Schengen before Djelic promises.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20902	Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20903	I'd just like to say that the Ministry, after having seen the amendment to Article 7. The draft law by Parliamentarian Dr Zoran Mašić – which reads "in Article 7 of point 29" after the word "deratization" is added to the words "execution on animals for scientific research" – agrees with this amendment and accepts it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20904	Member of the 71st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Popovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20905	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 71(4). The proposal for a law on the welfare of animals, which reads, in attitude 71, the word "Minister" is replaced by "Ministership". It is good for Serbia to get one of these animal welfare laws. Before that, however, something had to be done for the benefit of people. After the adoption of this law, the animal will have more rights in Serbia than tens of thousands of Serbian citizens would accept by hand that the state provides them with conditions guaranteed by this law to animals. This specifically refers to the 100,000 Serbs living on KIM. So, first, you provide the citizens of Serbia with human rights that belong to them according to European standards, and then apply European standards in the field of animal protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20906	National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic together submitted the 72nd amendment. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20907	This attitude prescribes who can do anything to protect the welfare of animals in zoos, shelters, or breeding sites for wild animals. Finally, the veterinary profession here found its part of the job. What we suggested in the previous law, here you respected in some other part of the matter, people who finished biological science, basic studies. It doesn't apply my amendment to this position. My amendment refers to paragraph 3, where the Minister, with the agreement of the Minister of Environmental Affairs, prescribes a training programme on the welfare of animals under Article 2. Since we have repeatedly pointed out that the minister is in charge of everything and everything, I am leaving this jurisdiction again only to the Minister of Agriculture, because I believe that the Minister of Environmental Affairs is absolutely not in any part of this business in any segment of this job. I don't see why you're bringing him into this. I think it's complicated to follow procedure when you have two ministers and interfere with their jurisdiction. This is matter only from this area, there's no need to get into it and the responsibility of the Minister for Environmental Affairs. On the other hand, what I find very strange is that this is about persons who have really graduated from very high schools and are very highly trained, they have the knowledge needed to protect animal welfare. There is no need for further training and for the programme to be prescribed by the minister. I think this member is a little weird, and I think that's why we should consider what kind of new training the minister is about to prescribe.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20908	It's been two minutes. Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 73 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 79th amendment. Mrs. Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20909	Article 79 describes the measures imposed by the veterinary inspector. The veterinary inspector is obliged and authorized to, read the first item, order the removal of irregularities in the holding, breeding, reproduction, slaughter, life deprivation, loading, loading, unloading, transport, training and use of animals. A veterinary inspector may order the removal of irregularities in all of these actions. The DSS amendment consists of stating in this same point that it is also obliged to specify deadlines, i.e. to set the time limit within which these regularities should be removed, because if it only orders removal and does not state to its report and within what time period a certain irregularity should be removed, then I do not think that this article has any purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20910	The 79th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Tijana Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On the basis of Article 80, paragraph 5, Article 142 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20911	In Article 82, the criminal provisions are also in point 1), you wrote in Section 1: "The animal is not treated with the attention of a good host in accordance with Article 6(4) of this Act." I don't think our right knows the term "good host." What does it mean in one law the attention of a good host? This can be understood in a variety of ways, and the purpose of this law is animal welfare, it is very important to give a specific point of view to a good host. The amendment we have submitted is "not to treat the animal in accordance with Article 6(4) of this Act". That's enough and it needs to be erased with the attention of a good host.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20912	The 82nd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Jadranka Jovisic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so it became an integral part of the bill. The 83rd amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanovic and Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 84 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Jadranka Jovisic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 85th amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanovic and Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 85 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Jadranka Jovisic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find it has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 87th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanovic and Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 87 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted. Mrs. Donka Banovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20913	Article 87 is found in the framework of the transitional and final provisions of this proposal of the law, and in paragraph 2, it states that units of local self-government will coordinate the work of shelters for abandoned animals with the provisions of this law within three years of the date of entry into force of this law. We believe that the three-year period is too long, that the deadline should be shortened for a year and that it is feasible. One of the assistants or advisors is now a little surprised. I know there are local self-governments that don't have shelters. Here you are talking about harmonising the work of the shelter, and there are a lot of local self-government to encourage, if nothing, then this law, that it will violate the law if they don't go seriously to solve this problem. Many local self-governments still need to open shelters, and those who need to coordinate work, and they already have, for a year it's enough for them to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20914	On the basis of Article 89, paragraph 5, Article 142 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considered it legally possible, and became an integral part of the Bill's proposal. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. On the basis of Article 85(5), I extend work today and after 1800 hours per item of the agenda, which at that time is on the agenda and setting a break to 15.10 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20915	Good afternoon. We'll continue our afternoon work. We are moving to the 17th point of the agenda: – PROPOST OF THE LAW ON THE AMENDMENTS AND ADDITIONS OF THE LAWS OF THE OBJECTIVES Mr. Mirjavić (in particular) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the MPs: Milorad Krstin, Srboljub Živanović, together Zoran Nikomić and Jovan Palalic, Milan Avramović, Boris Aćimović, Dragan Aćimović, Slobodan Vuković, Lidija Diva Dovrić, Momčilo Duvnjak, Branimir Đivić, Dragan Željić, Nikola Ževinić, Radiša Štić, Jadranka Jeremić, Vladjan Jerević, Žažažažažaž, Žažanović, Žažažanović, Željanović, Žažažažažov Mir, Zavić, Zavić, Zavić, Zavić, Zavić, Zavić, Zvić, Zavić, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Dragan Žović, Slavić, Slavić, Drag, Slavić, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola Žvić, Nikola, Milan, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Slav, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Slav, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Slav, Slav, Nikola, Nikola, Slav, Slav, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Nikola, Slav, Slav, Slav, Nikola, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Nikola, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Also, you received a correction of the report from the Committee on Agriculture held on 20 May 2009. As the National Assembly carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. There are four and a half minutes available to the parliamentary group, and you have this time. The word is Mr. Milorad Krstin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20916	Dear citizens of Serbia, individual agricultural producers, couples, peasants, we have a very important law ahead of us, in fact amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act. I can't talk about him without looking back at 2006 when that law was passed at the end of the year. It was then submitted by Ivana Dulic-Markovic, member of G 17 Plus. The law, unfortunately, must now be rewritten, Minister, to legalise it, but then Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic passed the law to those who can in the image of the tycoon, the powerful one, to reach the large areas of the state agricultural land and to rent it. A debate about that, Mr. Minister, we've had. That's when I proved to you through the documentation that, in the application of this law, before these changes and additions, there are now full irregularities and that certain individuals, and I apologize to those poor parishes, peasants, who have managed some few acres to come and rent as state agricultural land, these tycoons, cannot be forgiven. First, municipal administrations didn't do their job right. Based on the report I have, this last one, which I gave you, was paid to rent under the 2006 and 2007 programme only in the Municipality of Zrenjanin 60,837,128.30. Based on that documentation I received from you, Mr. Minister, the Ministry of Agriculture has a completely different amount, your amount is 74,000. There's already a 14,000,000 difference here. It means that the Zrenjanin municipality, known for its construction mafia, has become more famous for the agrarian mafia. These problems were raised by counterpart Petar Jojic when it came to Pančev, Srboljub Zivanovic, Dobrislav Prelic, and I hope that it is enough for you to realize that you have annulled eight leases of state agricultural land against these people, although in Zrenjanin, I hope that these people will answer. No one has the right to use the state land without paying the government's rent. I hope that's where you and the SRS parliamentary group agree. As for, gentlemen, individual agricultural producers, couples and peasants, the state of the agrarians in Serbia is difficult, extremely difficult. The weather, the weather, the weather, are not good, and they do not go to the parishes, they do not go to the hand of those cattlemen, they do not go to the hand of the vineyards, nor to the fruit farmers. You don't have a safe price for agricultural products. In less than 20 days, the cattle barley will begin to come off as crops, no price, no wheat in a month. They don't have peasants, couples or an approximate assumption of what the price of their agricultural products will be, not to mention the sunflower that's coming, not to mention corn. You ministers, no matter what, have to make a lot of efforts to, as you said, make agriculture an engine of the economy, but in 2001, it took a general to make it, I think, now in 2009, it's too late for peasants. It's too late because you obviously can't handle the tycoons, all those people who dictate future prices of agricultural producers' products. You must try to help the fallen agrarian, to help the peasant, the paor, to help that peasant and the surroundings of Nis, to help that peasant and the surrounding Bor, the peasant in the vicinity of Loznica, to help that peasant and the surrounding Pancheva, in the vicinity of Somboro, and then you can only be trusted by an individual agricultural producer, paor, peasant. You will also be trusted by one who deals with these heroes and pigs, the production of milk, the production of grapes and wine, the brandy, the production of war crops. Therefore, Mr. Minister, another cry in front of the SRS parliamentary group for the harassed individual farmer, for the harassed pair, for the harassed peasant. Do everything, because he can't carry the burden on his back anymore, and only the Ministry of Agriculture can help him, and given what environment you're in and what kind of government you're in, I doubt you'll make it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20917	You've used the time foreseen for the MP's group. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Zivanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20918	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this engine seems to have screwed up, as Mr. Minister has said. But this bill that came to the agenda, I think it was necessary to survive another deep analysis, because if we look here at Article 2 of Article 1, Mr. Minister, you consider both meadows and pastures to be arable areas. I know what you're thinking, but down in the process, you say, "The process is a compassionation." What do you think, by the process of comassing, if the agricultural individual producer gets both meadows and pastures, how is the country's quality and how and how is it going to give birth? This is problematic, because if you are already seeking to combine, erosion and all other foundations involved in the accumulation of land, then there must be separation of adequate surfaces, i.e. monitoring and quality, so that it does not happen in the villages of the Sword as it happened in villages of the posavotamna.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20919	Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Jovan Palalic. The word is Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20920	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, is an extremely important law on amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land, which is very interested in both our agricultural producers and local self-government. Our parliamentary group has been through the amendments it has submitted to this law to point out one thing that is manifested as a trend when it comes to the government of the Republic of Serbia's policies towards local self-government. In the previous period, we specifically discussed, pointed out and criticised certain decisions made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to local self-government, which de facto lead to reductions in rights in the financial position of local self-government and, of course, to an even stronger form of centralisation. The local self-government is in a very difficult situation when it comes to the government of the Republic of Serbia. The best evidence of such a policy, the caucus policy towards local self-government was the government's decision to reduce the transfer funds, which are now largely causing problems for local self-governments and which will cause problems especially when the government finally announced a decision to transfer such reduced funds to local self-governments. We have seen that certain representatives of government specifically in the city of Belgrade are already pressured by the Government of the Republic of Serbia that in a concrete, fair and solid way and thus reduced, I say wrongly reduced, the funds are distributed and that policy form led by this Government of the Republic of Serbia has just found its reflection in this bill, where the rights that had local self-government are now narrowing down. We will, of course, continue our discussion under these amendments to show in which all the new forms of centralisation policy and policies are being passed over, and what has been tried, of course, through the unconstitutional statute of the AP, to the greatest extent, and the goal is to put full control over local self-government in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20921	National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The word is Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20922	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to Article 3. It's very short. It is said that Article 3 paragraph 2 is deleted. The government has not accepted this amendment. What's this about? So, in Article 3. The draft law amending the agricultural land law states, among other things: Article 5 paragraph 2 - for the territory of the autonomous province, for the territory of the municipality, or the city of Belgrade (hereinafter referred to as "agricultural basis of the local self-government unit") replaces the words "and for the territory of the autonomous province". Paragraph 4 is amended and reads as follows: "The agricultural base of the autonomous province must be in line with the agricultural base of the Republic". As you can see, in the light of the law itself, you have cited several reasons, for your arguments, in fact the Government, for which this law should be adopted. Among other things, a number of details are listed that will reportedly improve the situation in which our farmers are located. Practically based on this argument, we can conclude that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are engaged in agriculture will begin to bloom roses. But the truth is different. You know for yourself that by unilaterally applying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, our farmers lose the most of our agriculture. You know, Minister Dragutinovic herself said that the losses of Serbia, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia themselves, from the unilateral application of the SAA, would be around 267m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20923	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. No one answered for the word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Jovan Palalic and Željko Tomic. Here you go, Mr. Zeljko Tomic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20924	The DSS parliamentary group, through the MPs Zoran Nikola and Jovan Palalic and my little ones, submitted an amendment to simply delete Article 5. We have explained only one sentence, which is that this proposed solution under this law is completely contrary to the declared policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on decentralisation and strengthening the jurisdiction of local self-government. I'd like to hear where you can see the policy of building land by strengthening local self-government. It's just gone and the whole spirit of the law is all about it. Unfortunately, we did not succeed in that brief debate in general on a set of these 15 laws to develop a story about the position of local self-government and the fact that the importance of such an important topic as this agricultural land law is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20925	The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Buha, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20926	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5(1) and I have requested that this member be deleted for formal and technical reasons, because it is too widespread and so vague. The government has rejected this amendment. I'm not going to go further into an explanation. I will return to the story of the discriminatory law of the Republic of Croatia from last year, which refers to agricultural land. Serbs, who were exiled from their hearths by the genocide policy of the Croatian state, left more than 450,000 hectares of agricultural land, 680,000 forests, forest land, meadows and other agricultural land. Who cares about this land today? Nobody. The Croatian state passed this law only to prevent Serbs from returning, disabling Serbs from using their private property. Serbian state authorities do nothing to allow Serbs to return there and enjoy their private property. It is a direct violation of human rights organised by the Croatian state, but unfortunately also by the Serbian state. The SRS has received information today on another drastic violation of human rights. Namely, The Hague tribunal banned the SRS president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, from walking within the UN tribunal's courtyard. This is really the point of 'i', this is a violation of human rights without precedent. That is why I call on this assembly to call for an emergency session and discuss it - to launch an initiative to disband the UN tribunal, to review all verdicts of the tribunal in The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20927	Mr. Buha, your time is up. Thank you very much. On the basis of Article 103(1), the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. Since we are discussing amendments to the Amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, I would ask all Members of the People to stick to the order, Rules of Procedure and the subject on the agenda. I thank you in advance. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Lidija Vukicevic and MPs Zoran Nikolic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 6th amendment in the same text. The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20928	This, as we said, is an extremely important law on changes and additions to the Agricultural Land Act, which regulates when it comes to renting agricultural land in state property. We have had opportunities to deal with the functioning of local self-government to see different examples of the practice of how this procedure was conducted in certain local self-governments. Indeed, in a number of local self-governments, there were excellent examples of how this was done, but in a large number of local self-governments there were a huge number of objections, huge problems in the procedure and, of course, a large number of cases of dissatisfaction. Of course, it is expected that only the Ministry of Agriculture in this regard can make examples of the good practice of certain local self-governments, in order to improve this whole process, and it is very important, it is an important example and the income of certain local self-governments. I want to say one more thing to this occasion. As this is an important topic for local self-government, I believe that a large number of local self-government representatives are following this discussion, so it is very important and more and more initiatives we have than a large number of local self-governments – that a very important constitutional provision and constitutional obligation be finally met by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is to pass a law on public property, which would define the concepts of state property, of course, of its own autonomous province and units of local self-government. Believe me, without these laws, you can't speak to a shadow in a sense of serious decentralisation. Local self-governments, pressured by reduced transfers, reduced competences, and here we hear again today that they will get new commitments from the state when it comes to reducing the number of employees, which is an important thing when it comes to rationalising jobs, but the problem is that this will be re-emerged on the burden and revenues that municipalities have on renting land absolutely cannot solve the problems that local self-government has. So I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to enter into the adoption process of these laws, because for almost three years we have brought the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and there is no fundamental shift in decentralisation and strengthening the capacity of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20929	National MPs Zoran Nikolic, Jovan Palalic and Željko Tomic submitted the 7th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Zeljko Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20930	As in Article 5, we propose that Article 7 be deleted, with the same explanation – that this solution is also completely contrary to that declared policy by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on strengthening the competence of local self-government and decentralisation. We, as the DSS parliamentary group, have a crowd daily, which calls for, with letters, e-mails, etc., from all over Serbia – to oppose this way of solving the problem of agricultural land. Unfortunately, this Rules of Procedure prevents us from talking for a long time about this and your famous merger of these 15 points of the agenda into one, so that everyone from Eckko, Stajic, Bačka Topola, Subotica and all those people who appeared, a great apology and that we will try it in the form of parliamentary questions to ask. I have to take this opportunity to remind the minister of what we had in our debate while we were talking about this matter in principle. I'm just going to take the opportunity to quote the president of the Association of Agricultural Economists Professor Miladin Chevarlic, a former adviser in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Now I will not paraphrasise, as I did back then, and I now quote: "This Ministry of Agriculture is a continuation of the policy of one state, and two systems, under which the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia absolutely does not finance agriculture at all, and the Fund for the Development of the AP Vojvodina is fully appropriate for most of the funds to be allocated precisely to agricultural development projects. "Of course, that is where I managed to put it – that this fund also deals with the financing of some political campaigns, elections, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20931	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Vukovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20932	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment in front of the SRS to Article 7(1) with a proposal to delete. It is proposed to delete this position because the solution in the current Agricultural Land Act is better than proposed. You, Mr. Minister, because of the mistrusts you have towards the local self-government unit, delete local self-government as if it does not exist and transfer a good portion of your authority to autonomous provinces, specifically the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. Can you, Mr. Minister, control Mr. Pajtic, and also whether you are able to control the funds from the Capital Investment Fund and the AP Vojvodina Development Fund? Mr. Minister, you know, like most of us in this House, that Mr. Pajtic fully acts on his own, that he doesn't even listen to the president of his party, so it's a surprise that you transferred these powers to his jurisdiction. Mr. Chairman, within this time, I am asking you, given that Serbians are watching, don't mind us, we have to react, what my colleague Buha said. It's Mr. Seselj, our president, whose life is in danger, his right to life is at stake. This is what I am bringing into connection with Mr. Biden's visit and the main character in the book, in the process that will be held on Friday, "Afera Hrtkovci and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandic".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20933	I remind all MPs that tomorrow from 16:00 to 19.00 hours we will have the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia and we will be able to ask them concrete and exact questions. I'm still optimistic, and I believe that synchronization and these relationships must be good. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Slobodan Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20934	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I submit an amendment to the amendment to the Amendments and Supplements Act on Agricultural Land, and to delete it in Article 7(2). Reason: Deleting this position is proposed, as the solution in the current Agricultural Land Act is better than proposed. As you can see, I agree with several predecessors who give the same initiative, and the previous law had much better solutions. I don't see why you put such disastrous suggestions before the Assembly. One of the fine examples of how you plan to do this is yesterday's decision by the Belgrade City Assembly to assign one of the largest "experts" to agricultural land, Dragan Gilas, to the capacity to dispose of agricultural land in Belgrade. This is one example of how the Ministry of Agriculture synchronises actions with government proposals, how agriculture will advance, how farmers will get more and more subsidies, that they will be able to live better than their work, etc. I suggest you think about these laws, even if you adopt our amendments, it'll be better than it is now. In any case, this amendment proposes that this attitude be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20935	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Jovan Palalic. The word is Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20936	Of course, this is one of the amendments that, as a parliamentary group, we wanted to point out how certain competences that had local self-government are transferred to several levels of government, in this case in the case of the Autonomous Province. Indeed, a series of contradictions exist when it comes to thinking and deciding in the ruling majority. We don't see why it has run so much that these powers are passed on to local self-government, when we haven't had a chance in the National Assembly to decide on the draft statutes of the Autonomous Province and the law on the transfer of jurisdiction. Let's wait and see how if she has the strength and the will of the majority at all, the ruling coalition will come to the National Assembly and propose a statute with which she went public, adopted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. No, but like this, while this very important law on the transfer of jurisdiction, where constitutional obligations should be fulfilled when it comes to the autonomy of Vojvodina, and I remind you that the DSS has come out with its proposal for a law on the transfer of jurisdiction, we are now carrying out an additional transfer of jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina, without waiting for these two very important acts to define the scope and character of autonomy. It's something amazing. Obviously, the adoption of this law by the ruling majority will lead to a state of action, one precedent when it will no longer be possible to correct one such decision, so that local self-government in Vojvodina is taken away from some of its jurisdiction and transferred to the Autonomous Province, here specifically when it comes to establishing a agricultural base. I think that instead of dealing with the expansion and strengthening of capacity and competence of local self-government, to create the right decentralisation of that form of government that is closest to the citizens, we slowly transfer it all to more organs, here is the AP Vojvodina case, where through different forms, and this law contributes to it, a new form is done much stronger and much stronger centralization than we have so far. Instead of strengthening local self-government in Vojvodina, we will strengthen the province's administration. The law now proposed is only one contribution to the new centralisation of government carried out in the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20937	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Djokić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20938	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I submit an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Reproductive Materials of the Forest Trees. In Article 13(3), I believe that the word "Minister" should be replaced by the word "Ministership". The reason is that the SRS believes that the ministry, not the minister, is in charge of doing the work in this work cycle. We think the minister is just one natural person, and he can't physically get to do all these jobs because of his duties. Basically, what other assistants and professional services would do to the Ministry and other employees. Finally, the minister may also be changed, and the ministry remains, and I therefore believe that Article 13 of Article 3 needs to replace the word "minister" with the word "ministration".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20939	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The word is Mr. Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20940	I have submitted an amendment to Article 8 in front of the SRS on this bill, to delete in Article 8(2). The government has explained that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that this position "determins more precisely the way the working group is trained to create a agricultural base". We have great and bitter experience regarding local self-government and the renting of land. I'd like to find out, I've asked a question in parliament a few times, by the minister, does he have any information on how much damage has been done to the budgets, the republic, the province and the local, during the unquality issue of agricultural land? Certain bids have been made in a way of setting up, in a way of unfair participation in bids. I believe the Vienna municipality has done great damage to the local self-government itself, and also to these two budgets that I have listed. Since there are 11,000 ha in the Becay municipality, there is a disastrously determined extrajudicial settlement for a catastrophic price of 5,600 dinars per hectare. Farmers who hear this know very well the category of land in PIC "Becej", which is the first category, and in the neighbouring municipality, such as the municipality of Srbobran, the same category of land is leased for 28,000 dinars. It is easy to calculate how much damage has been done to local self-government, the province budget and the republican budget. When you take all the municipalities that have thus conducted the bidding, how much damage has been done and done in this economic crisis in the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20941	Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Nikola Žutić and joint MPs Zoran Nikolic, Jovan Palalic and Željko Tomic. The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20942	I am reporting on the basis of Article 27, point 3. Mr. Chairman, I would like to extend my remarks to both you and the current minister. For the last amendment, Mr Djokic deliberately applied to Article 13, but related to the second law. It's interesting that you don't react, and it's particularly interesting that Minister Dragin doesn't react. Maybe he didn't read the laws either, so he's not familiar, unless one of these counselors, and it seems to me he brought everything, points to some problems. Or you've banned Minister Dragin from reporting, since you're in a great deal of pressure, to understand each other, by the time pressures. Why do you do it this way? This is what the citizens of Serbia are looking at. From such an agile minister, who has jumped on every spoken word ever since this debate began, we have now come to a situation that Mr. Dragin does not appear when these things happen. It speaks of the character of this authority, it speaks of you. It says from the beginning that you don't choose the means to achieve your goal. For you, political utility comes first, and you're not interested in everything else. If this is useful to you, harmful to the state, to violate the Constitution, to violate the laws, to violate the rules of procedure, to steal in parliament, there is no problem. It's important that it's useful to you. There are things that need to change after all. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate that, however, you, unlike your colleagues, are quite patiently leading the Assembly, you have understanding, but there are some things you should take care of.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20943	Thank you. Of course we're also the minister, and my little one noticed Mr. Djokic's lapus. Since I had already asked and warned the MPs at the obligation of Article 103(1), I felt that this was enough and that such a failure could happen to anyone. If she was going to, then I don't think it was fair. If it was a slip, I think we all figured it out together that we all did it fair and square. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Be sure...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20944	What about Mr. Secretary? We'd like to hear him too.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20945	He noticed right away, and he and I, the minister reacted first and said, "This doesn't apply to this law, so we let it go." Considering Mr. Djokic's professional reputation. I had a few things in mind when I didn't want to and wanted to interrupt the speaker, regardless of the obvious slip.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20946	I appreciate what you said. But let me, I have the right, I have the impression that she's the other thing, that the minister will not report until the end of this debate, because it is imperative for you to finish this. That's the only reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20947	I'm absolutely sure the minister will call. Besides, the minister's here, so when he does, we'll see which one of us is right. Thank you for your patience and understanding of this little, as Mrs. Komic would say, lively debate. The word is Mrs. Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20948	I'm reporting from Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Novakovic, you have tried nicely in response to Mr. Todorovic's response to a situation why the minister has not noticed this failure, why he no longer reacts to the speeches of the MPs. You said something that didn't comply with Article 104. You said you were about to see through Mr Branimir Djokić's fingers, given his reputation, etc. Of course Mr. Djokic is a very respectable man. Thank you for thinking that. All the MPs of the SRS are people of reputation, very respectable people. I would ask you now to explain to us why you gave Mr. Dragan Zivkov a warning in the morning because he asked why his amendment had not been read. You then explained that his amendment was in one of those groups of amendments. You thought his reaction was provocative and you said, "That's in the stenogram," something very interesting-- given my good will, I give you a warning. So you have no right to rank MPs. You have no right to judge whose reputation it is. The reputation of every MP and every political party can and can only be assessed by citizens in the elections and, of course, we Serbian radicals are very prepared for any such check by the citizens of Serbia. I would ask you, Mr. Novakovic, to really follow the Rules of Procedure consistently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20949	Thank you. I'm absolutely trying to literally comply with the Rules of Procedure. Do not doubt my opinion of the high reputation that the MPs, regardless of which party they belong, have in my eyes. I'm trying to show everyone the same respect. If I accidentally missed something, I apologize, this was neither personal to Mr. Djokic nor any other MP. As for the second part, the intervention on the breach of the Rules of Procedure must follow right after you think the injury is done, so I think you're a little late. I asked for a stenogram, and if I was wrong, I told Mr. Zivkov that I would insist on the way I can and withdraw that decision. Are you satisfied with the explanation? Thank you very much. Mr. Zeljko Tomic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20950	As is known, the DSS parliamentary group has so far not resorted to amendments saying that a certain member of a law is being deleted. This time, we have done it on several occasions for the simple reason that we believe that there really is no policy, as we have repeatedly drawn out, that is, the government's decentralisation strategy. I don't think this announced law on regionalization will help either, which we can't see, even in a draft or draft draft, etc. What's very interesting, the local self-government, we've pointed out multiple times, they're placed in a subordinate position. It must be reminded of those two cuts in the agrarian budget 26%, i.e. an additional 22. Always there, we are proud to point out that government in 2004, when the first move was made by the government of Vojislav Kostunica to increase the agrarian budget three and a half times. What's going on now? Local self-government is absolutely unsatisfactory. I would like Minister Milan Markovic to inform us tomorrow about the attitude of local self-government towards this law. But everything is rising to a level, let's say, AP Vojvodina, and we have testified that recently the President of the Executive Council of Vojvodina, Bojan Pajtic, has promised 23,000 new jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20951	National MPs Zoran Nikolic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20952	This is one of the amendments that consistently goes with our position and with the amendments that we have submitted, which is that those members of the bill, leaving out the competences of local self-government, are deleted. Of course, in this bill, when it comes to the competences of local self-government, when it comes to the rights of local self-government, but also to obligations, there are certain things that can be assessed as good, when it comes to the authorities involved in carrying out the whole process of renting agricultural land. Of course, it is good when one local self-government, any authority that does not fulfil its obligations, as stated here, unless it adopts a programme that funds realised from the lease of agricultural land are in fact not going into the budget of local self-government, but precisely, if in one part the role of local self-government is strengthened and more responsibility and sanctions for non-compliance are given, then why in the other part are some responsibilities taken away. It's just not here until the end is clear. Why should local self-government not be clearly strategically engaged in agriculture in its own area, but the whole thing is unified, by transferring it to the AP and the Republic. Simply, there is no reason, today, when we need to strengthen the positions of local self-government, because all of us, more or less of all political parties in our programmes, would have the concept of decentralisation, that on the one hand, local self-government takes over part of the jurisdiction, have income from renting land. I can say, certain local self-governments are very good at conducting this procedure. It would be interesting to get information as to whether such information exists in the ministry, an example of good practice as it is done, so that, on this basis, only the Ministry participates in strengthening the capacity of local self-government, that this job, very important, I believe the adoption of a law on public property, does, in order that all authorities in the state, of course, and the Ministry of Agriculture, help local self-government. I believe that there are local self-governments who are unable to do it in quality, and that is again in this domain the job of the Ministry of Agriculture, to strengthen education, probably there are ways, and probably the Ministry has the potential to organise educational teams that would go on the ground, because very much harm is done in certain local self-governments, to misimplementation of this law. Instead of focusing on strengthening local self-government, educating local self-government, strengthening their resources when it comes to implementing this law, perhaps there is such a plan in the ministry, we would welcome it, on the other hand going to take away certain responsibilities that have already become a custom, I say, not good. Instead of spreading jurisdiction, we're taking them away. I don't think that's a good practice at the moment when it comes to this government's politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20953	The DSS parliamentary group timed out. You used it. National MP Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10th of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20954	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, and on Article 10, with a proposal to delete Article 1. I have submitted this amendment for the reason that the solution in the current Agricultural Land Act is better than proposed. In Serbia there are so many abuses around agricultural land, it is unfortunately now happening, so it will not benefit from any of these amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act. The initial step in adopting the agricultural base that this member deals with is perhaps an introduction to what is happening to agricultural land. The newspaper in this article is now announcing a scientific research organisation that is required to give its opinion on a agricultural basis within 15 days. In addition to all these changes and additions you plan to protect, allegedly agricultural land, you will still be able to manipulate it. It is now the most profitable to turn agricultural land into a building and to chew up huge money. Let's just remember the affair in the last year, how much agricultural land has been lost forever. The minister, above all, should pay attention to how his party friends, especially in Vojvodina and in large cities, where they hold power, have agricultural land. Agricultural bases are brought by a republican body, autonomous province and local self-government. Where abuse occurs, it shows the extent of abuse and crime. Before the agricultural base is brought, pay attention to the agricultural land that needs to be returned to the right owners that were taken away after World War II. This land, as if by some command first of all, is usurped and sold out and the whole dispute is later (President: Mr. Ilic, your time is up). ..... transfers to the state and directly to restitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20955	The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20956	Mr Novakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, was proposed to delete Article 2's position, because we believe that the solution in the current Agricultural Land Act, which, for the sake of will, is also not the most qualitatively formulated, however, is less bad than the one proposed this time. The government, more specifically the Ministry of Agriculture rejected this amendment, explaining that it is necessary for professional control to be carried out by scientific research organisations, which, within the prescribed time limit, will deliver their opinion to the manufacturer, because they are organisations with the largest scientific and professional capacity, so it is necessary, in this way, to be included in the preparation of the Agricultural Foundation. In this way, I would say, with an amazing research attitude, they only actually confirmed that the Serbian agrarian policy, which obviously has continuity and unfortunately has continuity, which you represent, is practically out of perspective and because of those famous decisions on the application of the SAA and because of the inadmissible small funds in the budget, so I will use this time more, given that Minister Sasa Dragin is also here in this afternoon's part. Let me just repeat the question - what does the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Agriculture, intend to do with agricultural land that is not used today, or for a long period, for agricultural production and is located in the parlogum, and a significant part of these areas, unfortunately, are on built irrigation systems? It's hundreds of hectares, I said it was plantations in Barajev, parcels in Đurinci near Sopot, a nursery in Mladenov, and unfortunately, there are still a dozen such cases. I'd really like to hear the government's intentions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20957	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20958	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill of addition and amendments to the law should have come sooner. The question arises how will those harsh mistakes and those robberies that took place in the lease of state land and also the privatisation of huge areas of agricultural combinations be corrected? In particular, the question arises – what about those who have received thousands and thousands of hectares of the best and best quality Serbian countries and agricultural land in Europe. I visited the municipalities of Pancheva, Vršac, the White Church, Kovin, Alibunar, Plandište, Kovacica and Opova and made sure that numerous irregularities and numerous, I say, crimes committed in that area. You have people who have bought huge agricultural combinations and three or four thousand hectares, and they owe the state from leases on other territory by millions of euros. Is there going to be an audit and how to correct this great injustice, take away the land, break the contracts and claim the damage done to the state? What about the Pancheese Azotar, I was asked this morning by the Azotara workers? Will she be released to production? Will Mr. Bajatovic, who has promised workers, will the Government of the Republic of Serbia include in the production process of Azotaru "Pančevo", because it is vital for the Republic of Serbia, both for farmers and for our agriculture? It produced the most quality fertilizer in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20959	Thank you. Time's up. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Jovan Palalic. The word is Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20960	This is the last amendment that our parliamentary group has submitted when it comes to this bill. I would simply suggest one suggestion and appeal to the Ministry when it comes to, in general here is a representative of the government, Mr Dragin, strengthening local self-government and a general procedure of decentralisation. As Minister of Government, I would suggest, of course, that you initiate the adoption of public property law when it comes to the property of the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina and the units of local self-government, of course as soon as possible, in order to round up the topic of the autonomy of Vojvodina, to come to the National Assembly of the draft statutes and law on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, in order to clearly define the frameworks of the AP Vojvodina, of course the proposals of these important acts are in line with the Constitution. What we said about the Ministry of Agriculture, when it comes to renting agricultural land, defines and finds real examples from the practices of certain local self-governments, and I know that a large number of local self-governments in Vojvodina have done a good job and this might be an opportunity for only the Ministry to go to those municipalities where problems, abuses are observed when it comes to renting agricultural land. Of course, strict implementation in full capacity of the principle of equal regional development and strengthening the Serbian village where indeed the Ministry of Agriculture can play an extremely important role, we are faced with major problems in the proportion of the development of certain parts of Serbia, especially when it comes to rural areas, and strengthening the Serbian village, the remaining of young people in the country can and can help overcome these drastic differences in development. Finally, to financially strengthen local self-government, to bring about changes and amendments to the law on the financing of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20961	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20962	Several members of this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land, and in particular from Articles 8 to 12, were referring to something which was the arrangement of the plan-programme documentation related to agricultural land and, as you could see, the MPs of the SRS and other similar political parties in this National Assembly submitted amendments aimed primarily to warn secession, separatism coming from the territory of the AP Vojvodina, from Bojan Pajtic, his Minister of Agriculture, Mr Dragina, and this is the process that goes through statistics, education, culture, information. The main problem with these provisions on autonomous provinces is that essentially the Republic of Serbia cannot implement these provisions because there are two autonomous provinces. If we now asked Minister Dragin's question -- how to implement it in the KIM territory, then he would have to enter into a conflict with Goran Bogdanovic, who is also the KIM minister. Of course, we have to warn this on time. Just to remind you, in 1981, KiM protests began from the dormitory for a plate of beans, in Presevo and Bujanovac when some separatist move is criticised, then it's usually said – what to do, little children, don't know small children, so they break all the monuments in the cemetery. In advance, we warn that fine, thin, one policy is implemented. Of course, they'll always say we're not for that kind of secessionism, but they're sorry they didn't finish yesterday. In advance, we warn and criticize. They're not insignificant planning and programming documents.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20963	Mr. Krasic, time's up. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Agriculture has submitted, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an amendment proposed to add a new Article 11a after Article 11. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. The word is Mrs. Vesna Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20964	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted to the amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land that the laws must be in line with the situation in Serbia, not with phrases and procedural ideology. We strongly condemn the reduction of subsidies for agriculture. It is also incomprehensible that the government continues to implement the Transition Trade Agreement, which is particularly harmful to our industry and agriculture. Only in the first phase of the agreement will customs duties be abolished or reduced for about a thousand agricultural products. The lack of subsidies will lead to the further collapse of our village and agriculture, and thus to greater unemployment, the acquisition of agricultural products and the strengthening of trade monopolies. This is an absurd situation, especially if it is known that Serbia has managed to eat in times harder than these. It is not a problem in our farmers and in our citizens, but rather a problem in an incompetent government that cannot distinguish between the reality and the needs of Serbia's citizens, on the one hand, and Brussels' virtual ideology, on the other.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20965	National MP Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20966	With my amendment, I have proposed to delete Article 13, Article 1, which is why I will say at the end of my presentation. I think it's a bad legal solution. I am taking the opportunity to remind the citizens of Serbia that today, among other things, we are discussing a law guaranteeing freedom of movement for closed animals. I quote: "The owner, or holder of the animals, is obliged to provide the animal that is kept in closed facilities with an adequate area for movement. The owner, i.e. the holder of the animal, is obliged to provide the animal that is being held secure during the day in which it will not be bound and in which it will be able to move freely in accordance with its physiological needs and behavioural needs." (President: Mr. Maric, please concentrate on the agenda. ) Mr. Novakovic, as a closed animal is necessary for at least a small part of the day to move freely, it is even more necessary for a human being. As you have heard, the Hague tribunal has rightly denied Dr Vojislav Seselj today. In the midst of the Europe you are taking us to, which you swear, in The Hague tribunal, whose orders are humbly executed by this regime, one citizen of Serbia is denied the fundamental human rights guaranteed in Serbia by this law to animals. That's what I was going to say and ask one question. When a man who has been in prison for six years, who, as you know, has severe health problems, deny the right to move, the right to at least a half hour walk, what it is, rather than a planal attempt to further endanger health and life. Finally, I am taking this opportunity and your good will, I thank you, to invite the government of Serbia and President Boris Tadic to stop treating Vojislav Seselj exclusively as a political opponent and to start treating him as a full citizen of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20967	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20968	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13, and I request that Article 2 be deleted. The reason is very simple, that the farce that this law tries to introduce is eventually removed. What exactly is this about? In Article 13, the fee for changing purposes shall be paid once in the amount of 50% of the market value of processed agricultural land on the day of application; or 20% of the building land, etc. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs and citizens of Serbia, that those who buy agricultural land and turn it into construction do not mean anything to them these 50%. Of course there is sometimes a higher interest, where the state or local self-government builds something and then they have to turn some of the agricultural land into construction land. What happened to the state that now she's in a situation that when a tour of Belgrade is made, she needs to talk to tycoons, with the owners of suspicious capital. A certain Lazarevic, to remind you, is the one, from a reversible hydropower plant we had to flush when he was importing electricity in 2002, he imported electricity, and we from a reversible hydropower plant had to drop water to buy it or its electricity. He's blackmailing the state now. Saturday's blackmailing the state. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, when the SRS was in power in the municipality of Stara Paz, a group of people bought huge quantities of agricultural land and pressure to turn it into construction.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20969	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to complete the thought of Mr. Momir Markovic. So this is completely true. One Austrian firm, with very suspicious capital, bought a huge area of agricultural land in the municipality of Stara Paz a few years ago. They paid the peasants 20% of the value, and 80% will pay them when the farm land is translated into building land by local authorities. Of course, the local government of the SRS didn't do it, but you did it after the May 2008 elections. In the municipality of Stara Paz, local authorities brought in appropriate urban planning documentation and this huge complex of land along the highway was translated from agricultural to construction. Of course, the cost of building land is far higher than agricultural land. The tycoons and mobsters got rich, the peasants didn't get their 80% of the price they promised, and it's really hypocritical that the government in an explanation why it doesn't accept my amendment and Mr. Dusan Maric's amendment said, because they wanted to tighten the conditions for changing the purpose of agricultural land, making it more effective to protect agricultural land. Unfortunately, Serbian citizens also had opportunities to see in the municipality of Stara Pazov, and in general in the territory of Vojvodina, both this and previous DOS governments are more efficient in protecting agricultural land by allowing Croatian tycoons and mobsters to buy thousands of hectares of the most quality country in Vojvodina, to alienate the state property of the Republic of Serbia, without the consent of the Property Directorate and without the consent of the Republic of Public Defence, which is a crime of unprecedented proportions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20971	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Mr. Mirovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20972	The amendment shall be submitted to Article 14(2). A change of attitude is proposed as the solution in the applicable Agricultural Land Act is better than the proposed one. The amendment has been submitted in the context of the general attitude of the SRS and, as my predecessors have already stated, we believe that the laws should be in line with the real situation in our country, not with the virtual phrases and the proselytic ideology. In that sense, it is enough to compare the phrases of the reasoning of the law and reality, more precisely pointless and harmful decision to unilaterally apply the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU, which, as counterpart Alexic already quoted as quoting Mrs Dragutinovic's statement, shows that Serbia is losing because of such a pointless and harmful decision around 267m euros. In the context of the principle debate and the debate on the amendment, we are interested in whether the minister agrees, although he has now come out, with the implementation of a unilateral transitional agreement, because the public has speculated that he disagrees with such a pointless and harmful decision. If so, we certainly support that reasonable attitude of his. On the other hand, I think it is clear that such a senseless and harmful decision to unilaterally apply the Transitional Trade Agreement is the most useful for the import lobby, more precisely to trade monopolies such as the Delta Company. However, it is already a problem that cannot be solved by the minister and it is a question for his superiors, prime ministers and presidents. In any case, the amendment has also been submitted due to the fact that our agriculture has no chance on the EU market, even though EU bureaucrats are trying to convince us otherwise.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20973	National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20974	Dear colleagues and colleagues, in front of the SRS, I suggested that article 16 be deleted. We have a typical law on the agenda here. All these laws, it's mostly about what they come down to, the repairs of previously passed, the bad legal solutions and the proposal. All these laws, at least as regards agriculture, which could be seen clearly from the presentation of representatives of the SRS, have brought only the possibility of getting rich with a certain narrow circle of people. They have made it difficult for the additional position of the individual agricultural producer and made it possible for Serbia to become an importer of food, something that is a strategic thing for every normal country. Why did we suggest that article 16 be deleted? What's he talking about? He's talking about a voluntary land grouping. According to the old law, the local self-government assembly made a decision to initiate a process for the accumulation of voluntary land, if 10 applicants appear or if there are reasonable reasons. So, it can also be arbitration, it doesn't matter if you have a promoter, a local congregation, if you consider it necessary to move on. What is offered to us by a new solution? It is offered that we now have three ways to launch – firstly, ten or one promoters, if it is state land, and, of course, again arbitration in the Assembly if the eco estimates that there is some general interest which is not completely clear and has not been processed. See what is said in the explanation – in the explanation we are prescribed the exact same content of the members of this law. It's like, let me tell you on the case, if I were to now tell the court that Mrs. Comic is having an extraordinary session. Then this court wanted me to prove and confirm by fact. What would be my proof? Evidence, I would like to repeat, Dr. Comic is extremely well in charge of the Assembly. That's how you professionally explain it to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20975	Thank you. Mrs. Komic is not here, and I didn't expect anyone to mention her. By the way, she's honored to lead the assembly. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Brestovsky. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Kasalovic and Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20976	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, the distinguished representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, speak about the importance of this law, but the very idea and desire to make a domestic and rational land-use land in the state property a significant contribution to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, in this context to local self-government and AP Vojvodina. Because of the importance of this law, it has already caused a lot of controversy and misunderstandings in the public debate in 2006. Here, we now have before us a bill that, in the good part, respecting its application and what has proved to be a certain flaw, and of course what has been good, tries in the good part and the SPS-JS, a parliamentary club, considers this proposal on amendments and amendments to the law, succeeds. My position in this section and opinion is the only finding that at the time of the adoption of this law certain shortcomings and the problems that will be caused by the application of this law could not be seen. I don't think they're entirely accurate. My experiences in this part, especially in Central Banat, where I come from, say that certain shortcomings have already been seen during public debates and at that time certain amendments to the law have been proposed. Unfortunately, there was not enough understanding at that time by the proponents and the will.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20977	Two minutes, Mr. Kasalovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20978	I'll use the MP's time. Of course, it was then realized that the right to prevent purchases was not adequately established. Farmers from the territory where they have residence, on the territory of the municipality where the state land is located, will not be able to resist certain pressures, as well as legal persons. I regret to say that this happened in the good part of the Vojvodina municipalities and that some cooperatives were brought into an unfavourable position and inability to function. All that the legislator, this time and the promoter, predicted, and also the possibilities of renting and participating in bids, I also appreciate that it is good. Of course, our view that it was still good for the legislator to establish and remain in the domain of local self-government, especially public bidding. Appreciating this argument by the promoter himself that municipalities are best aware of their needs and that, in one communication with the agricultural producer, the local disaster and all other factors in the process, they can best implement the whole process. It is in this sense that the SPS-JS Parliament Club has submitted several amendments, four amendments more specifically to Articles 19, 23, 24 and 27. Using this time that belongs to the MP's club, I will talk briefly about all four amendments, since it is very specific things and I will no longer appear on the basis of other amendments. First of all, I would also like to say that I would like to thank the Minister and the Ministry, who, in some sense, accepted all four of these amendments. The essence of this amendment, which my colleague Petronijevic and I have submitted to Article 19, is precisely to ensure that municipalities are able to carry out that part of the work and that, on the basis of the annual programme, which they are building, they themselves are conducting public competition. What's most important is that they also make certain funds that they can make the best use of for the development of agriculture in their municipalities, of course with the control of the ministry. I would like to say that this article has been adopted, an amendment by a colleague who is practically identical, by the fact that my colleague Petronijevic and I have in fact only provided for the erasure of the 3rd and 4th position, which allows this, and whose amendment has been accepted, in fact proposed by a member behind that article, without that Article 3 and 4. In the same direction, Article 27, which we have submitted to the amendment, re-confirms and provides income to local self-government units that should spend it on the financing of works on the basis of the annual programme of protection, regulation and use of agricultural land. What is symptomatic here and I also want to say, using this time, we have submitted an amendment to Article 23(2) where, in the same way that the amendment was adopted, we replace our colleagues, Željko Brestovac, with the words "can be", in which we ensure that local self-governments are defined in this way in which they will carry out the public procurement procedure, and in the sense that they can also favour their agricultural producers, i.e. the way in which they could best earn, or rent agricultural land on the most favourable terms, or at the highest prices, in order to achieve the highest income. We have also submitted an amendment to Article 24. Very short - it concerns the right to a shorter lease and concerns a new member of 64. A similar amendment is also accepted by colleagues, and it concerns, in point 1, in the sense that the right of cross-referencing has legal and physical persons, therefore, we have added "legal" which has not been inserted, which the owners of the facilities occupy by keeping animals and dealing with the breeding and keeping of animals, the production of food for animals, and that is one hectare per conditional throat, unwitting, since only 20% of the objects are intrusive and the reality that exists on the ground should be respected. In this part, we have suggested, in addition to this, that a new attitude 3 be added, which would read that the provisions of Article 1 refer to natural persons who are included in the register of agricultural holdings and have the capacity to provide insurance to farmers at the PIO Fund of the Republic of Serbia, while respecting that the provision is provided for the right of participation in public competition, and we also consider this a comprehensive solution for easier control, but also for some of the rights that could be achieved in this way. Appreciate all this, we are grateful to the Ministry for supporting these amendments and, with these amendments, we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20979	Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Vitomir Plužarević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20980	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all the laws of agriculture, and especially this law, deserve to be discussed one semester, not the time of two minutes that we MPs have. In Article 19, we suggested that Article 5 be deleted. The government has given a particular explanation – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that, among other things, an annual programme is necessary to prescribe the type, scope, dynamics of works and to invest funds in the protection, regulation and use of agricultural land, so that all agricultural land users can apply for funds for these purposes. The law has been passed for those who have already finished their work on agricultural land. The current changes and additions will not be able to correct the injustice that has been done and which still seems to be. We should not have allowed the highest quality areas under agricultural land to be transformed into construction and other land. This job will have far-reaching consequences. We know that no one will ever be able to take it under the land of a farm again. Do you know that at the expense of Belgrade and all the cities that are expanding in Serbia, specifically at the expense of Belgrade, 80,000 ha of agricultural and forest land has been converted into building and other land? You know what it's all about, that a big fight is being fought and run around this building land, where today in Serbia, you don't know who's drinking or who's paying for it? Every day in Serbia, areas fall below agricultural land.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20981	Thank you, Mr. Sluzzarevich. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The word has Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20982	Ladies and gentlemen, it's really a little two minutes so I can fully explain my amendment, but I will try to be precise and say what it is that made me ask on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to delete this Article 19th position 6, in order to at least keep that previous solution that exists in the law, i.e. I think it's quite enough for the agricultural land in the state property to be available and managed by the state through the ministry. Here I think, first of all, of the responsible state, and whether or not it is, it will appreciate someone else's relationship, in this case to agriculture, and the agricultural land in the state property is used according to the state's programme of protection, regulation and use of agricultural land that brings the local self-government unit's competent authority, and that's all. Now you, by attitude 6 and six, further explain in detail what is going on and how it should be done, in order to share the cake between the Serbian government and the mayor and the president of the municipality, although I am particularly interested here in how it will look at the level of the city of Belgrade, that it is city municipalities that are not units of local self-government under this law will do this, whether the statute of the city of Belgrade is intended and transferred to the jurisdiction of the units of local self-government and whether, since it is not their original jurisdiction, it is the transfer of jurisdiction, etc.? But what's most important about this topic is that in the state of Serbia, less and less agricultural land is growing, because the destruction of all this started with a bad law on privatisation and this law...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20983	Thank you, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20984	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 19(7). The draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act, which reads in Article 19(7), is deleted. In the government's explanation, the amendment was rejected – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that in the current application of the law there have been huge problems in obtaining data for the production of annual programmes, i.e. the granting of agricultural land in state property. This proposal will significantly facilitate the development of annual programmes to units of local self-government and in a more efficient way to rent agricultural land in state property. I believe this bill contains more unnecessary norms. With careful reading, we can see that some of these standards are already regulated by the existing law in a better and clearer way. That's exactly the case with Article 19. How much of you, the ruling majority, are interested in the state of agriculture and Serbian agrarian, says that at this point in the assembly hall there are no more than ten MPs of the ruling majority and it is good that there is a television broadcast of the session, that Serbian citizens see what your relationship to the laws that are being adopted here, and thus also the problems of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20985	National MP Siniša Stamenkovic submitted the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. No one's answering for a word. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. There's a word for Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20986	I suggested deleting article 21. The proposal of this law, and it actually refers to a member of the 61st law whose amendments and additions we are discussing today. In Article 61 of the law of the existing law, it was said that agricultural land in state property could be given to use without paying compensation to educational institutions, schools, professional agricultural services and social institutions, in which area, not to waste time, colleges and scientific institutes again in the larger area. Agricultural land in state property can be given for use without paying legal persons in state property registered for jobs in the field of forestry. The position of the SRS is that this is a better solution than what you are proposing, where you say that exceptional agricultural land in state property can be given to use with legal and physical persons for non-agricultural production, oil wells, windmills and the like, and then you say that local self-government units do so with the consent of the ministry, and then that the government prescribes closer conditions. He's not a minister now, he's not a ministry, he's a government. Obviously, from situation to situation, you change your attitudes and your attitude towards the Law on State Administration and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You said you didn't accept this amendment, Mr. Dragin, I hope you read the explanation your services wrote, for the reason that in this case agricultural land in state property is used for non-agricultural purposes. Are oil wells and windmills for agricultural purposes?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20987	Thank you. Time's up. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by MP Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 23rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. Mr. Spaho has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20988	Mr. Minister, here's how good your law is, so you're also MPs who will vote for you tomorrow have been expelled from the O.R. But that's why when there was a debate about the gay population, every place was a lot. I know it's much easier for you to enter Europe with a gay population than with a simple peasant, but that's why we're here to present and propose amendments that will improve this law. I have submitted an amendment requesting that Article 23 be deleted. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act. The reason is simple. In fact, Article 23 amended Article 64 by adding a new position to Article 1 which reads as follows: "Agricultural land is leased by public competition in two circles, except for the right to cross the lease". We Serbian radicals believe this is a bad formulation, which will not properly frame a legal solution. The government, more specifically the Ministry of Agriculture, rejected the amendment with the reason that it is one of the objectives of the law – rural development or expansion of property and an increase in agricultural production of farmers living in these areas. The introduction of public competition in two circles gives priority to legal and physical persons who have residence, i.e. headquarters in that catastrian municipality, or the local self-government unit. We in the SRS think this is wrong thinking, and we urge you to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20989	Time's up. Thank you, Mr. Spaho. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20990	Mr. Minister, we really believe that the law that will regulate the area of use or the lease of agricultural land is important, that it is necessary for Serbia, but through the number of amendments and their essence we have tried to show that we are in doubt, most seriously, that this and this law will be able to do so and that through these legal solutions, you will be able to make all that you have stated in the light of this law in practice, to implement it, or to achieve it. It gives us the right to believe that the problems of using agricultural land and land do not arise in Serbia at all from the lack of legal regulation or its indetermination. They emerge, above all, from the abuses that people are prone to, and willing to, the executive authorities, and to which people from individual political and financial centres of power are prepared. These same people in this debate on all the laws on agriculture have been said a lot, especially from the SRS parliamentary group. We are really pleased that, when it comes to these same ones, in a word called tycoons, you, too, have agreed and agreed with us that they are present and that abuse of the laws and political will of individuals is also working on this area. We also believe, Mr. Minister, that an adequate solution to agricultural land does not exist without defining the planning documentation, which would adequately solve and train agricultural land as well. Mr. Minister, as long as you do not absorb the political and economic power and influence of individuals at local level, that local congregations make decisions like this in Ruma, or Old Paz, you will not be able to regulate the area of agricultural land use.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20991	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Stojanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20992	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister, I have submitted an amendment before the SRS to Article 23, paragraph 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act. In Article 23, paragraph 5 is deleted. It is proposed to delete this position because the solution in the current Agricultural Land Act is better than the previous one. Article 5 is deleted because the decision on jurisdiction cannot have autonomous provinces, because we believe that local self-government can appeal to the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management of Serbia for all negativity, land rental abuses in its municipalities. The law on the powers of the AP Vojvodina was passed by former Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20993	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Mr Popovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20994	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 23(6). The draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act, which reads: "Article 23, paragraph 6, after the word "ministration", puts the point, and the rest of the text is deleted." The wording '' is deleted, that is, the competent authority for the autonomous province's agricultural affairs, for the territory of the autonomous province. ''In the reasons for the refusal of the amendment, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the funds generated by the lease of agricultural land are distributed between units of local self-government, autonomous province and the Republic. In view of the total number of units of local self-government, as well as the large size of the affairs of the development of annual protection programmes, arrangements and use of agricultural land and public competition, it is not possible for all these tasks to be carried out only by the Ministry. In the SRS, we believe that public competition on the lease of agricultural land should be in the jurisdiction of local self-government, i.e. the Ministry itself. Obviously, you're transferring jurisdiction to Pajtic, and I'm asking if you have control over the AP Vojvodina Agricultural Development Fund? On several occasions, Velimir Ilic presented information that Pajtic spent threem euros in the May elections from this fund to finance the DS campaign. Velimir Ilic has never received an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20995	The 23rd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ambassador Milan Skrbic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Squirt.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20996	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment to the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Agricultural Land Act on Article 24, to delete Article 1. My explanation is very brief and clear. It says that this amendment is a logical trail of previously submitted amendments to the SRS parliamentary group. When we see how this debate on amendments is going and how amendments to the ruling coalition's MPs are being accepted, and the amendments of the SRS are being rejected, it is clear to all of us that it is the principle of the ruling coalition, not the bad amendments. When we talk about this law, we're dealing with the wrinkling issues that talk about renting agricultural land. The MPs of the SRS group have not only today, but also before, timelessly turned their attention to the disastrous situation in this matter. As far as I know, we have referred a concrete issue of abuse and loss of large funds to the unpaid and unsettled obligations of the tenants. The state lost millions of euros in inaction. These funds would also be very welcome to the state, and thus to local self-government, which, by various regulations, government, and all under the guise of the global economic crisis, simply threatens bankruptcy. Local administrations that don't collect that part of the money, and they miss it, especially at this time of crisis, will simply become powerless soon. If we take this law of jurisdiction to the province, i.e. One man, as my colleague, Bojan Pitiæ, said earlier, we're really wondering...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20997	Thank you, Mr. Squirt. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Mašić. The word is Mr. Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20998	The objective of this amendment is to extend the fundamentality of the exercise of the right to cross-referencing. In addition to what is stated in Article 24, i.e. 64a, the right to more frequent leases can be achieved on the basis of a functional system for watering and deforestation of ponds, multi-year-olds older than three years and functional agricultural facilities, it is proposed that the basis for achieving the right to cross-referencing should also be crops with a multi-annual exploitation period, primarily referring to the spas and possibly the planting of hops, as long-term plantings. However, the legislator did not accept this amendment with a reason that crops with a multi-year exploitation period are not entered in public property records, so it is not possible to prove the right of ownership. As a legislator, I didn't mean that. I accept the argument, but with regrets I can only conclude that it will not be taken into account in the exercise of the right of more than one lease right at this time, and that the Lukar has been exploited for five to seven years, planting hops, and for many years, so I think that the owners of these so far can come into an unequal position in relation to others who, under the provisions of this law, will exercise the right to cross the lease, but since the whole is not fulfilled, I accept the proposal's argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u20999	National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Avramović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. () I apologize, Mr Masic, there is no MP group, and you, as an authorised representative, have no more time. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. There's no answer for word. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was submitted by Siniša Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was submitted by Jorgovanka Tabaković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21000	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 26(2). Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act. This amendment has not been accepted, with an explanation of the government that I will read. "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that in a multi-year lease, the Republic of Serbia must have the means of security in case the tenant continues to work on land after the first year of lease, and does not pay the rent for next year. In that case, the ministry terminates the lease contract and charges the rent from the security funds." Unfortunately, in practice, we could hear it today, we have a colourful in terms and arrangements by local self-government and rent collection. As far as we know, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management has broken down a very small number of agricultural land lease contracts, and in practice we have a huge failure to fulfil obligations based on completed lease contracts. The damage suffers both the republican budget and the local self-government budget and the AP Vojvodina budget. For as long as I have left, I'm just going to point out what's important in the area of agriculture. For this calendar year, we have reduced subsidies in the Agricultural Agenda, and they are about 85% lower than last year, or shown in 25 billion dollars in cash last year to 13.5 billion this year. That should concern us, should concern this government, because our agricultural producers and our food producers do not have the conditions that producers in the region...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21001	Thank you, Mr. Buha, time's up. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Arpad Fremond. There's no answer for word. National MP Siniša Stamenkovic submitted the 27th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Brestovici. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Kasalovic and Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21002	Mr. Novakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 27, paragraph 3, the motion says: "The funds achieved from the lease of agricultural land in the state-owned income are the AP budgets if the local self-government unit of the 3rd article is located in the territory of the autonomous province." So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's the same situation as in Article 7(1). Apparently, the promoter here has no confidence in the local self-government unit, wipes out local self-government as if it doesn't exist and transfers a good part of the authority to autonomous provinces. The SRS proposes to delete this position because the solution in the current Agricultural Land Act is better than proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21003	The 27th Amendment was submitted by MP Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21004	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, and on the basis of Article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. My amendment reads - Article 28 paragraph 3 is deleted. My argument of the amendment is brief and clear – this amendment is a logical trail of previous amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS. This law on amendments to the Agricultural Land Act is another one of the bad laws of the ruling coalition. If you want to improve this law, please accept amendments from the MPs of the SRS. This law, i.e. its amendments, goes directly to the damage of agricultural producers. I come from Kruševec, and I know exactly what you're doing with agricultural land. You're turning extremely high-quality agricultural land into building land, and we all know we're agricultural land. It will have far-reaching consequences. First, you need to do a programme to protect agricultural land, not to convince peasants to sell quality land, and that it is in their interest, your friends, your godmothers, to build gas stations and other facilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21005	National MP Branimir Djokic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The word is Mr. Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21006	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 29 to delete. Again, the ministry wants to introduce a new body that will manage, i.e. to increase the number of employees. This means that he wants to re-centralise, or re-sufficient local self-governments in which agriculture directorates were formed. I'd like to ask the Ministry a few questions. I'll set it up real quick. I ask what about 780 hectares of arable surface that was usurped by MK "Comertz" owned by Mr. Kostic – which is Sombor Airport? What is it, ladies and gentlemen, with the Cafilarium Factory to be built in the heart of the Sword, in the village of Klenj, where are the largest producers of vegetables? Ladies and gentlemen, what about the factories the Department of Agriculture's municipalities gave a certificate to build factories for the destruction of physical and chemical waste? One such factory was supposed to be done in Šapec, but thanks to the SRS and the SPS this factory was not done, because we knew the harmfulness of the gas transmission from that factory, but now it will try to do the factory in the heart of Shumadija – it is in Ćupria. Ladies and gentlemen, what about the most important process that you, when you came to power after the five-octobarian revolution, promised the villagers: prosperity, which is cooperativeism? You promised to let the villagers live from their work, and in fact you live from their work. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a petoctobar revolution where you promised workers and peasants, and you destroyed by privatizing all the factories they'd been producing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21007	Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21008	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have filed an amendment in front of the SRS on Article 29. Proposal for a bill to be deleted. The amendment is not accepted, the argument is the Government – for the reasons indicated for not accepting Amendment No 1. So it's the same answer. The government did not make much of a move to read the amendments submitted by the SRS MPs. Article 29 regulates the education of the agricultural land administration, and we have experienced the adoption of the law in 2006 of Commissions of Local Land Self-Government. From my colleagues in the SRS, you've heard how much local self-government will now have less authority over renting land that is state property in local catastrian municipalities. I believe, no matter what body you have formed, what law you have passed – that you have done great damage, as I have said in the first interpretation of the amendment, which I have submitted to Article 8, that the budget of the Republic, the budget of the province and the budget of the local self-government has been damaged. Since this is percentage, as you know, to remind you – 30% went into the republican budget, 30% of the province's budget, and 40% should remain local self-government from the lease of agricultural land. You also heard from colleagues that a number of the tenants they took didn't even pay for the land, since that was the situation, and it was passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21009	Time's up, Mr. MP. Member of the 230th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21010	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, to Article 30(2). The amendment proposes to delete Article 2 in the proposal to amend and supplement this law, which is a member of the 80th basic law passed several years ago. In points 3) and 4 of Article 80, as amended by Article 30, dangerous and harmful substances in agricultural land are mentioned, as well as the permitted quantities that can be found in the land. Mr. Minister, if you already have the intention and the desire to protect agricultural land, above all from permanent pollution and contamination, then you will probably do everything to prevent the construction of a waste treatment plant in the midst of agricultural goods, stressing the agricultural goods, Dobritsevo prim Ćupre. This Dobricheva, agricultural good, has a surface area of 750 hectares. It's a facility, and you probably know very well, which was designed to treat as much as 43,000 tons of hazardous waste annually, including liquid cyanide, which is known as blood poison. Mr. Minister, I'm sure you know that the 2003 AP Vojvodina Assembly made a decision to ban the construction of this facility. Now you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are after him for citizens in central Serbia, Pomorava County. If it is harmful for Vojvodina, it is also harmful for citizens of Cupre, Paracina and central Serbia. This just shows real discrimination against Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21011	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it is necessary to revise all the contracts signed by Ivana Dulic-Markovic and Slobodan Milosavljevic, when it comes to renting state agricultural land, because the biggest irregularities have just been committed and made at the time of their ministry and by their resolution they have managed. Furthermore, it is necessary to publish in public – who are the tenants of the state agricultural land; did they pay the rent; when they paid it; if they did not pay it, how much did they not pay; do they pay a tight interest and have they filed charges? Although the minister said about 200 lawsuits were filed the other day. Is he moving with damages? Who are the buyers of that state agricultural land through privatisation? At what price? This must be published in public because citizens, individual agricultural producers are damaged and they are disabled that first they have the right to a more frequent lease compared to others. Secondly, it was supposed to be preparation, which is also trying to do with this bill, but with a delay. Large areas have gone for cheap money when it comes to individual agricultural producers and the damage that has been done to them. I ask the question, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to ordinary farming, can the fruit and vegetable industry be created in Serbia? Before answering this question, we have to answer - does nature allow the creation of fruit and vegetable industries in Serbia? It allows. But we don't have a government that can organize production, that can stimulate production and that can...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21013	Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Sasa Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, want the final word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21014	Dear People's MPs, the essence of amending the Law on Land is this: to allow farmers from the locals to have the advantage of obtaining land over those who come into their municipality and taking that land. In addition, it is important that farmers who deal with livestock in this way have the advantage of taking land. If you don't have anywhere to produce food for cattle, you can't handle profitable livestock. And thirdly, which is the essence of these amendments to the law, it's that contracts are first paid and then signed, or you can't sign a contract unless you've paid for the country. In such a way, irresponsible individuals are prevented from coming to the bidding, excelling the gross sums for a plot for which some host man will not bid so much, and after that money he does not want to pay the state and the state has to sue them. For that reason, we thought it was good to improve this lease. I'd just like to answer one of the more frequently asked questions, and that's for the basics, why do it now in the Republic, why isn't it done in local self-government: because local self-government asked us to do it because they don't have the money for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21015	I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21016	Mr. Novakovic, you have not concluded a debate on the proposal for this law in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It does not appear anywhere that after the Minister, the MPs, who have needs, address themselves precisely on the basis of the minister's presentation. I answered in good time, because the minister obviously did not understand what the MPs of the SRS said, and he probably did not remember, because during the debate on the draft of this law, the minister did not actually participate in the debate with the MPs, which is really surprising, given the fact that, when we discussed previous laws, almost every amendment of the MP was commented. I remind you that yesterday, for example, I drew his attention to an amendment that pointed out that one member of the law was not in accordance with the Constitution and the minister accepted it, he accepted my argument. Why did I actually answer, and what did the minister not understand in the address of the MPs of the SRS? When it comes to local self-government and what you, Mr. Minister, have said - what is being transferred to the state of Serbia, or to the Government of the Republic of Serbia... Mr. Minister, please, I'm speaking to you. So, some of the powers in this law remain within the local self-government, and you probably didn't hear what I said in the meantime, Mr. Novakovic. Madam Radeta, it's been two minutes. But I couldn't ask because you took my time talking to the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21017	That's what you're gonna ask tomorrow. There are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, other than those which you have just done, because, on the basis of Article 144, the examination of the draft law is concluded in particular, by the final word of the motionor, or by the authorised representative of the legislator. So that's what it says, and I'm absolutely sure you know that. Therefore, if you are not satisfied, in the voting day, the Assembly will decide whether the Rules of Procedure have been injured in the conclusion of the debate on the 17th item of the agenda. (Verica Radeta: I would like to pray that in the day to vote on the injury.) ) We move to the 18th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the Right of PLEMENJEVAČ OF BILJENJORTS (individence) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the MPs: Milan Avramović, Boris Alekić, Dragan Aćimović, Milorad Buh, Milan Vjeljinović, Lidija Vukić, Momcilo Duvnjak, Jadranko Vuković, Slobodan Vuković, Branimir Đokić, Radića Jocic, Radica Jocic, Ljubomir Kragović, Zoran Krasić, Milorad Živić, Nikola Ljubenović, Radiša Ilić, Vladjan Jeremic Marić, Natasa Jožić, Radanović, Radomir Krasic, Mirjanović, Mirjavić. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21018	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have submitted an amendment to Article 2, as the chairman said. The proposal is for Article 2(7) to be deleted. For what? We see here that the government has tried to mess with legislation that protects intellectual property and has not done a good job, because Article 7 defines what an intruder is, and so the 2nd indent is said: "the employer of persons who have created, discovered and developed a new variety or persons who have done the job by his authority is considered an intrinsic person". First of all, I'd like to remind you that you have unnecessarily introduced definitions here regarding intellectual property. I can see that you, in an explanation of why the amendment is rejected, are stating the data relating to intellectual property. Intellectual property is regulated significantly more precisely by other laws. What you said here isn't enough. The relevant norms of our legislation cite accurate percentages and conditions under which someone can be the bearer of intellectual property rights. You're here to re-apply to the UPOV convention. It is about the International Union for the Protection of New Plant Varieties. You are saying that the reason for this law is, among other things, for us to join this organisation, to join the World Trade Organisation and join the EU. Be careful, every law you propose, you state that this is a condition without which we cannot join the EU. I have already stated, once again, because information is important to you, and it is, above all, related to agricultural producers, your decision -- the unilateral application of the SAA comes out of the pockets of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, according to your data, according to Minister Dragutinovic, 267m euros. That number...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21019	Thank you, Mr. Alexic. Before we move on to the amendment to Article 3, one notice. The secretary-general of RTS informs the Serbian Parliament's Secretary-General that today at 1800 hours, the transfer will be suspended due to the assumed programme obligations of tennis transmission from Roland Garros, and in the delayed transmission everything that has not been transmitted by then will be reproduced. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. (The Witch of Radeta, from the scene: Are we informed when the delayed transmission begins? If it's possible until six, the citizens can hear. No, but let's try and try to get that information, so I'll tell you. Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 and suggested that Article 3 of Section 1 be deleted. The argument of the Government states that the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the reasons for the adoption of the proposed amendments are not seen. The meaning of this amendment, otherwise the position of the SRS is, in the following – a huge number of legislative projects have been proposed, covering a wider area in the area of agriculture and cannot be seen as such, so we have tried certain things by eradicating the huge problems that live in the area of agriculture. In my previous report and the interpretation of my amendment, I pointed out the huge problems facing the village and agriculture and negligentness of the government and the Ministry of Agriculture in the area of co-financing and financing of the subsidies of agricultural production. Last year, we could say, was satisfactory in terms of providing certain funding for agriculture. So 25 billion represents about 4.2 percent of last year's budget. However, the reduction of this amount to 13 and a half billion, and 2.4% of this year's budget funds are small, in any case we will leave the village to live alone, without the help of the state. I ask the question of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Serbia - how will our village survive with so little funds, how will our village endure?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21021	Time has elapsed, I ask the Members of Parliament to stick to the subject on the agenda in the terms of Article 103. Therefore, subsidies and issues and all of this have nothing to do with the expert advice on the protection of the rights of plant breeders. Thank you in advance. National MP Milan Veselinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21022	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 5, the Proposer says: "The foreign persons with regard to the protection of the rights of processors in the Republic of Serbia have the same rights as domestic persons, if this comes from international contracts that bind the Republic of Serbia". The foreign person in the process of protecting the rights of the processor must be represented by an authorised representative based in the Republic of Serbia." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the obvious intention of the promoter to equalise the rights of a foreign person with the rights of a domestic person. Therefore, it is obvious that the promoter's intention is to provide more protection to a foreign person than domestics. The Serbian Radical Party proposes that Article 5(2) be deleted because it believes that plant breeders in the Republic of Serbia should deal exclusively with Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21023	The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The word is Mr. Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21024	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, and on the basis of Article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment to the proposal for a law on the protection of the rights of plant breeders. My amendment reads - Article 5(1) is deleted. The proposed member of the law, Article 5, reads: "A foreign person with regard to the protection of the rights of processors in the Republic of Serbia has the same rights as domestic persons, if this stems from international contracts that bind the Republic of Serbia. The foreign person in the process of protecting the rights of the processor must be represented by an authorised representative based in the Republic of Serbia." My explanation is brief and clear. The SRS believes that the dealings of plant breeders in the Republic of Serbia should be dealt exclusively with by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under this law on the protection of the rights of plant breeders, it is evident that you are not writing these laws but ordering you to write those from the EU. They put you in this law here so that even the faces can be dealt with by plant breeders. This shows that Serbian citizens will not do so, because those from the EU along with you already have certain companies or persons in the area to deal with it. Here in Serbia, you will again have your people, or authorized representatives, as you have called them, who will represent foreign persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21025	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I ask the MPs of the order of the SRS to calm down. Don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21026	Shut up that copy, give me back my time, he talks all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21027	You received the word "timeless" and you were able to get started on time. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21028	I'll start. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I submit an amendment to the proposal for a law on the protection of the rights of plant breeders. The amendment reads: Article 8 paragraph 3 of the word "Minister" is replaced by the word "Ministership". Explanation. The SRS believes that these powers should have a ministry as an institution, not a minister as an individual. Normally, this amendment of mine has not been accepted. The argument is, I must read it in order to make it clear to the MPs what is actually in force – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 23 paragraph 2. The state administration law prescribed that the minister represent the ministry, lays down regulations and resolves administrative and other individual matters and decides on other issues from the ministry's section. We've been spinning around all day. We keep trying to free the minister of all obligations. We're trying to get the Ministry to accept fully, as something that's going to last, not something that's going to be a minister temporarily, and then the other one will come and then he'll decide everything as a little god. It's simply that the Ministry accepts all authority, to share obligations and in some ways make it easier, more successful, and that's the point of this commitment that always the Ministry as an institution accepts those obligations, not a minister as someone who's there for God's sake to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21029	Thank you, Mr. Vukovic. The word has been issued by MP Zoran Bortic, as an authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21030	The Honored Chairman-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, representatives of the ministry, esteemed fellow MPs, before I point out some important issues related to this set of laws, I would like to express my satisfaction that the Ministry of Agriculture has accepted the five amendments that I have proposed to the draft law on livestock farming, but also more amendments proposed by the SPS-JS parliamentary group at this set of laws. This is the best evidence that the Ministry of Agriculture and the minister have personally come to the issue of our country's agriculture arrangements in a responsible manner. This showed not only good will, but also maturity and responsibility to include in the legislative regulation all ideas and initiatives that will contribute to creating a normative environment for the rapid development of this extremely important branch of economy in our country. A significant number of amendments that have been accepted, as well as those that will be accepted by the National Assembly, will make the proposed laws more precise, normatively comprehensive and more content. I am convinced that these laws will contribute to raising the agricultural position at the level of the entire Republic to a much higher level than it is today. Without the equal development of agriculture throughout the country and the use of the comparative advantages of each part of Serbia, but without placing agriculture in general at the level of the strategic economic branch, our country cannot come out of the economic crisis, nor of the transitional renaissance and cannot be equally involved in the modern flows of the world market. All the laws in this area that we will adopt at this meeting of this assembly, as well as those to be passed in the coming period, will greatly contribute to changing the environment in which Serbia's agriculture today is located. I hope that the responsible and up-to-date application of these laws will represent the death of the Serbian village and the tycunisation of Serbian agriculture, which unfortunately has already deeply affected many agricultural branches and threatens to establish monopoly in agricultural production and food producers to turn full addicts from established monopolies. In order to prevent this and to make farming and life in the country acceptable to young people, laws, however good they may be, are not sufficient to make them concrete and apply through regulations, measures and decisions by all competent authorities, from the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture, to the authorities of local self-government. Only in this way can we make our agriculture profitable and beneficial for all those who have dedicated their lives to this activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21031	National MP Branimir Djokic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Mr. Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21032	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 11(2). After point 7), point 8 is added -- it must be adapted to Serbian language standards. What does that really mean? So, ladies and gentlemen, that producers of certain varieties should use the names of the Serbian language rather than actually use names, probably close to them there, whether they do the same, which is the US or the EU. But it is known that the variety of plants in plant production, and therefore fruit production, is the basis for profitable production. If the variety is minor or does not have the appropriate quality of the fruit, or if it is sensitive to biological and abiotic factors, and there is no suitable time to mature towards the locality in which it is grown, then even the best use of agromer will not affect the profitability of its cultivation. Therefore, work on the selection and processing of orchards from ancient times was present and is likely to be for a very long time. Fruiting varieties have been intensified since ancient times. They came back from the Age of Heraklit 400 years ago, and here in Serbia, Alexander the Great, Emperor of Macedonia, brought a plum and apple. The intensive work on the selection and processing of orchards begins 250 years ago. Since then, to this day, according to a rough estimate, science has registered about 80,000 different fruit varieties, of which apples and strawberries are about 200,000...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21033	Thank you, Mr. Zivanovic. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21034	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, and on the basis of Article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment to the proposal for a law on the protection of the rights of plant breeders. My amendment reads: In Article 11 paragraph 5, the word "minister" is replaced by the word "ministerism". The proposed law, article 11, reads: The Minister prescribes plant species that are considered to be close to one another. My explanation for this amendment is brief and clear. The SRS believes that these powers should have the Ministry as an institution, not a minister as an individual. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we believe in the SRS, and it is certainly better for the Resort Ministry to prescribe plant species, not the Minister as an individual. It's certainly one thing, that there's a very important area here, such as the processing of plant varieties and human beings, a team of experts prescribe plant species, and not just a minister as an individual. When will you once, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, realize that ministers are not the ones who can do anything, who know everything and who decide everything. Have you ever wondered who these people were, what they did before they became ministers? That's why we have a country like this, when we have ministers like this who know everything and know everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21035	Mr. Nikolic, as president of the parliamentary group, you don't have time as a group. Do you want a word on some other basis? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21036	The dignity of the National Assembly has been injured here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21037	I'm sorry, I made a mistake. Please sign up one more time, be nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21038	Here is the discussion of one of the predecessors injured the dignity of the National Assembly. In fact, Alexander the Great didn't bring the plum into Serbia. People's songs of pre-cos, Kosovo and after the Kosovo cycle mention that Serbia is exclusively in September wine. It is true that the Turks brought a plum at the end of the 18th century, when the philosopher destroyed the plantings of the vines in Serbia and when it was due to charge taxes, and had nothing to do with it. Then the Turks brought a plum, which was sold only in small bottles as a cure for paradise until then, when it was most needed. For the sake of truth, for the first time, the brandy in Serbian folk songs is mentioned in the song "The beginning of the rebellion against the breaths".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21039	He wasn't mentioned, he wasn't offended, there was nothing. [[SRS emissaries want a replica.]] You have no right to a replica. Let's move on. (Dragan Todorovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21040	Mr. Novakovic, I really don't know why you're in this situation completely unnecessary. We've already agreed, in a way, that your free faith should be reduced to the least possible. If someone also went out with a direct mention or a reference to the presentation of the previous speaker, they have the right to replication. You don't need that, but this law will only come on the agenda today. I think it was correct to let Srboljub Zivanovic get the right to replicate. Why are you putting yourself on one side, completely unnecessary, I don't get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21041	I'm not putting myself on any side. This was more like a historical review and a Kosovo cycle to me. But, come on, Mr. Zivanovic, you'll get your word, so let's hear it from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21042	Ladies and gentlemen, it is likely that the previous speaker from the non-existent political party is understood in brandy, but not in varieties. However, I will answer the question professionally, Prof. Dr. Arsen Stančetic and Dr. Milojko Rankovic from the Institute of Cačak explained this, I will read it to you. It is believed that the plum burner was the oldest fruit variety, it denied the Caucasus, from where Alexander the Great, the Emperor of Macedonia, transferred first to Greece and then to the Balkans 333 years before our era. Also mentioned as very old varieties are apples and plums, a green large renklode, for which there is written data that has been in production since 2000. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a book. Look, if he's lying to a goat, he doesn't lie to a horn. So, the gentleman in question doesn't know about plums, but he's probably into brandy, and he's probably not under alcohol.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21043	I'd like to talk a little more about plant pollinators and less about brandy, because that law passed. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21044	Just to tell the predecessor that I wasn't talking about when the plum came to the Balkans, but when it came to Serbia. Since he said in his previous statement that she had come to Serbia and that she had brought Alexander the Great to Serbia, which is absolutely not true, and the Balkans is the destination for the peninsula on which we are located. Serbs were not allowed to use plums. Who do I tell? You should have quoted in the previous discussion whose quotes you quote Mr. Zivanovic, not to say that you wrote it, since you are inclined to quote others without saying it's a quote. It is true that some in the Balkans knew about the plume of Hungary, later called a burner, knew about the redhead, but it is certain that Serbs were given the right to use plums in the late 18th century, as well as green paint, which they had no right to use.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21045	Srboljub Zivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21046	Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder, individuals may not know history, but where Serbia is, Serbia may be in America, the EU, but it is in the Balkans. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a delicate question, and certainly plant and fruit pollinators, one of the most significant issues this ministry should have been working on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21047	It's quite clear that everyone in this room knows exactly what's on the agenda. I'm more suspicious of reporters outside the O.R. if they know what's on the agenda. I thank you for this lively discussion. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov, who gets his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21048	I have submitted an amendment to article 15 of this law. In Article 15, paragraph 4, the minister is replaced by a word - the ministry. Since already a few speakers of the SRS, who had submitted the amendment before me, explained the essence of the replacement of the name – Minister and Ministry, I would just like to point out that the government has responded not to accept the amendment because of the reasons set out in Amendment 9. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I would like to read the government's argument: the amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 23. The state administration law prescribed that the minister represent the ministry, lays down regulations and solutions in administrative and other individual matters and decides on other issues from the ministry's workaround. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not surprised that the explanation is as it was given, given that it's a different law. I think the minister should be replaced by a word -- the ministry for the reason it remains in the law that the minister had so much right to determine even certain laws that would have to be changed later, probably by replacing the government or another minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21049	Time's up. Thank you, Mr. Zivkov. Members of the 16th Amendment were submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The word is Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21050	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 17. Proposal for a law on the protection of the rights of plant breeders, by changing Article 17 paragraph 4, and the word - the minister is replaced by the word - the ministry. Article 17 of this Act deals with the procedure for enrolment of the rights of processors and the proposed name of the variety in the register of requests. Of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry have rejected this amendment, and the explanation is the following – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 23(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has been rejected. The state administration law prescribed that the minister represent the ministry, lays down regulations and solutions on administrative and other individual matters, and decides on other issues from the ministry's section. The main objections that we have intervened with the amendment are that we believe that certain jobs should be done by the ministry, including the issue of a solution. This is seen in the first and third positions of this particular member, where the ministry in the first position determines whether the orderly requests for the granting of the right of processors are and enters the name of the variety in the register of requests. In the third position, the ministry has an obligation to ask the processor to propose a second name of the variety within a month. Accordingly, if all these activities are carried out by the ministry, then it would be logical for the ministry to reject the proposal for the name of the variety if the proposed name is found to be contrary to the provisions of Article 11 of this Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21051	The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21052	Mr. Novakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment of mine is one in a row, so to speak, identical amendments. In Article 17(7), point (a) is replaced by the following: The draft law on the protection of the rights of plant breeders by amendment, which I submitted before the SRS parliamentary group, is intended, or requested to replace the word - the minister in word - the ministry. The public following the assembly debate on the set of these agricultural laws can conclude that it is an amendment expressing a principled position of the SRS, above all, on the need to strengthen the institution, in this case the Ministry of Agriculture, rather than a personal figure, given in the image and work of the minister. Why is this in our opinion essential? For the simple reason that ministers, with all due respect, are party personnel, with significantly more party than any practical experience. The ministry, however, is a set of experts from all areas covered by agriculture, which you normally like to say is a strategic branch of development, but do nothing to improve the position of the Serbian agrarian, even on the contrary, the measures being taken seems to be collapsing something that could be the driver of the economy at all. If I am not mistaken, some of the similar amendments you have accepted, so that I suggest you show some good will and accept our view of the proposed legislative solution in this segment, because some parameters such as address, residence, variety name and the like, it is truly absurd that the minister undertakes to prescribe a closer content and way of keeping the register required, as is the case in this segment. I think it's much more acceptable for this job to be done by a ministry that is responsible for something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21053	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21054	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, if you have accepted one amendment concerning a similar amendment concerning, that the law must and should apply the definition and express the Ministry, and not the Minister, in that case, by logic of things, all amendments that are being made through all ministries and through all laws must be precedentd, and that is, what would be said in Roman law, both in continental and in Anglo-Saxon, true, it is already one fact that has been proven and as such should be applied, it cannot be distinguished, and it is regulated by the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to look back on a few sentences that used to be spoken by our great scientist, Michael Pupin. If you allow me to quote – Yugoslavia is a agricultural state, but that fact needs to find a much stronger expression in the teaching of primary schools in Yugoslavia than it found today. In my opinion, you should add, after completing the ordinary course in those schools, even teaching in agriculture, and especially in its area, such as fruit and vegetables. This course should be as practical as possible. filled with experimental demonstrations. Schools with books and regular school lectures do not attract a student as much as they are attracted to practical demonstrations. For example, when a student is taught how to plant fruit, how to cultivate fruit, then a teacher should do that teaching in the garden, where a student has the opportunity to do the jobs that the teacher is talking about right away. That's the kind of class...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21055	Thank you, Mr. Jojic, time's up. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21056	This is one in a series of amendments that monitors this dialectic of the Minister of Ministers. In this article 21, almost every one of these few views, especially in Section 3, you can see that the legislator, first of all, I think of those who gave the instruction on how to write, not the Ministry of Agriculture, but the Secretariat and other bodies, is here making a kind of a replacement thesis. In this way, the promoter shows us that he doesn't know what a detour is, what a jurisdiction is, he doesn't know what a state body is, what an official person is in a state body. It's all put in the same basket and then it turns out to be a kind of papaziania. The minister signs the rejection conclusion, the party addresses the ministry, the ministry conducts the procedure, and these several examples show that there is a kind of confusion. So, the state body is a ministry, the body is a state administration, has its jurisdiction, it acts, and who will be authorised by an official in the state authority is prescribed by other laws. In this way, it does not touch what is originally the right of the minister, as an inotious official, who stands at the head of the state authority. For two-and-a-half years, there has been a manner in which a state body is to be appointed and stereotyped, as it has been in our legal system for tens of years -- the ministry is competent, so it states which jobs. He is now resorting to the fact that, literally speaking, he is individually determining an official person in an organ based on material laws. No, it's not the matter of these laws, it's the matter of all other laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21057	Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a law on the protection of the rights of plant breeders on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 22, paragraph 9, where the word "minister" is replaced by the word "ministration". We of the SRS insist on this kind of amendment because above all we advocate respect for the Constitution, and the Constitution is, as is known, brought to the referendum and most political parties have clearly defined that the government, not the individual, is leading the policy of this country. In this sense, the SRS believes that powers should have a ministry as an institution, not a minister as an individual. So, the Constitution as the highest legal act is not only a formal letter on paper, but the basis of every country's legal system, and hence the agricultural law, which we are discussing today and to which we have submitted a large number of amendments. Under the same constitution of Serbia, the state is obliged to protect its citizens and their human rights. For all we know, Dr Vojislav Seselj is a Serbian citizen who has been brutally violated for seven years by human rights, and our government is not responding. Does this same government think that Dr Vojislav Seselj may be a citizen of another country or just follow the sentence spoken by Karli del Ponte – take him away and do not return him.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21059	The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Mr. Christin has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 22(1) where the word "Minister" is replaced by "Ministership". Article 22(1) reads as follows: "On the basis of the results of the examinations and the proposal of the Council of Experts, the Minister shall adopt a decision on the allocation of the right of processors or refusal of requests for the allocation of the right of processors within 30 days of the date of submission of the proposal by the Expert Council." I believe, Minister, that you are really quite burdened and here you have managed to get through the government these 15 laws on agriculture. But if you could just look at me, please in front of the individual agricultural producers, since we have a harvest of first cattle barley, and then wheat, to have a conversation with the warehousekeepers, with the millers, not to let it be a less price of wheat than last year. I also ask you, in front of individual agricultural producers, to conduct a conversation with the Oil Union, not to allow the price of sunflowers to be less than last year. The fruit of the wheat, based on all indicators, is halved. The question mark is how it's going to be with the sunflower.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21061	The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The word is Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21062	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 26(6), which I suggest that the word "minister" be replaced by "ministration". The amendment is due to a perfectly logical, in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to the SRS's position that the ministry's institution is above the minister's institution. By the way, I think that Serbia's citizens, and among them 6 thousand workers from the Great Plan, who are now the ruling coalitions who have thrown out of their jobs on the street, have fallen from their heart tonight. When they hear that we are now discussing such an important law as the proposal for a law on the protection of the rights of plant breeders, and we have discussed the proposal for a law on animal protection, they will be left with the final trail of doubt in the promised European future. Once you adopt this law, they will be easier without those promised 200,000 jobs, and without those "Fiats" promised 700m euros, and without Dinkic's thousands of euros in free shares and without Schengen visas. I think that the 500 000 citizens of Serbia who, according to official statistics, will be particularly happy, thanks to this authority and the results of the government's work, live below the poverty line, have practically nothing to eat. When they hear that we have protected the rights of plant breeders, that we have protected the rights of animals, I think they will have such enthusiasm that they will forget about their hunger.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21063	The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we have today at least twenty times pointed to the minister, and to the chairman, and to the MPs and the citizens of Serbia for one final sentence of Article 23. The Law on State Administration, which burdens all the laws that have been passed from that moment to this day. It's about what the minister is, what the ministry is, who's representing who's doing what. Now I don't want to talk about it anymore, considering there's been a lot of talk. I'm going to do something else, right on Article 29, that regulates the question of the register of transferred rights. It says: "The register of the transferred rights of the processors contains in particular: 1) the name and last name, i.e. the name and address, i.e. the place of the holder of the right of the processor; 2) the name and last name, i.e. the place of residence of the person to whom the right of the processor is transferred; (3) the number and date of the contract to which the right of the processor is transferred; (4) the name of the variety and plant species". Then in the second paragraph, he says, "The minister prescribes a closer content and way of keeping the register... "Here the register contains this, and what is closer to the name, last name, type, variety, date when the contract is signed, contract number, what is it that the minister should further prescribe? One more thing that appears in this and also in many other laws is mandatory or Article 2 or Article 3 in this case is Article 2 – individual terms used in this law have the following meaning. Then you move on, face is physical or legal. What kind of a third person can it be if it's not physical or not legal? Secondly, the local person is the person who has a residence, or headquarters in the Republic of Serbia, and the foreign person is the person who has a residence, or a seat outside RS territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21065	The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Mr. Martinovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21066	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here we meet again using the wrong terminology. Now one hypothetical question can be asked – imagine what would happen, who in the ministry would adopt a regulation or an individual act in case the minister was unable to do so for some objective reasons? If we were to follow the logic of this government, as a legislator of this law, then we would have to wait for a new minister to be elected, and then the minister, on behalf of the ministry, to adopt some general individual act. But if the minister includes the overall responsibility of one ministry and all the jobs the ministry is doing, then the question is, what will the secretary of state, somewhere two, somewhere like Dinkic's ministry 13, what will the ministerial assistants do to you, what will the whole civil apparatus, what things do to the minister and how will it help with the adoption of general and individual acts? Of course general and individual acts should be brought to the ministry. The State Administration Act in Article 23 only determines who it is within the Ministry who adopts general and individual legal acts, but the minister never steps forward in his personal name and never acts signed by him are his personal acts, but are attached to a particular ministry. If it were the personal acts of the minister, then it would mean that every act must be re-produced when the minister is changed. Imagine what would happen to the legal system not only Serbia, but any other country in the world, if general and individual legal acts had a period of validity at the time at which the minister was elected to the post, so as soon as the office of one minister ceases, then we must again bring all the regulations that the previous minister has brought.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21067	Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Mr. Mirovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21068	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to Article 34. The draft law and the purpose of this amendment is to point out the need to respect the Constitution as the highest legal act. As already pointed out by my predecessors in this discussion from the SRS and in this new EU utopia, law and agriculture are two of the most important areas. For example, in 2002 over 50% of the EU budget was spent on agriculture, far behind were structural policies with 35% and internal political areas with 6%. On the other hand, the majority of EU legislation, around 40%, is currently related to agriculture. Also, the White Paper, which deals with the preparation of Central and Eastern European countries, prescribes as much as a thousand measures. Considering that so-called. The Brussels law or the Aki communitre has over 100,000 pages is a clear link between agriculture and the rights we insist on in this amendment. We in the SRS do not idealise the EU, as some do, on the contrary, think that in reality it favours the agriculture of Western European countries, while at the same time applying double and harmful standards when it comes to Eastern Europe. This stems from the fact that by 2013 new EU members from Eastern Europe will not be able to have subsidies equal to those already applied in Western Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21069	National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 34th amendment. The word doesn't look for anyone. National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to the 37th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. Mr. Momchilov has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21070	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, as well as my representatives from the SRS, here is a similar amendment. In Article 37, the word "Minister" should be replaced by the word "Minister". I don't want to go into the arguments my colleagues have given so far, especially I wouldn't repeat the high-level opinions of lawyers who have explained this issue and what drives us to insist in this way throughout the debate on this change. It's interesting that we're having a conversation with the deaf here, that there's a big team of government representatives here, I don't know why they're sitting here, but they're having fun talking, they're in a good mood, they're getting close to the end of the debate, and there's no answer for us. When you look at our ministers, the Serbian government, I may say a few characteristics, you have people in general who ministers can be for any area. You've got four doctors and then you'd think that's where it's being treated, that there's a lot to be treated and that health is good for our people. It's not. Ministers are still obedient to their parties and there are those who are favorites of some embassies. If corruption is the cancer of this society, if you build up the rights of one man and make him powerful, it also opens the front for corruption. We think absolutely and therefore this needs to be changed and this way to regulate in a more correct and better way this matter. Not to mention the intricacies of certain ministers and incompetence, even when they are from the area they are in charge of, which is an additional incentive to adopt this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21071	The 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Nikolic submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21072	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 47. The law on the protection of the rights of plant breeders, which reads: In Article 47, in the position of the first word of the minister, is replaced by the word of the ministry. On each set of agricultural laws, we have submitted amendments replacing the word "minister" with the word "minister" for the simple reason why the ministry implies the entire institution and as a resort assumes responsibility for its work. I believe that the minister alone cannot take responsibility and that he is the only one asking himself and that he decides everything himself, because if he himself were to assume responsibility for making decisions in his own portfolio, it would be devastating for the citizens of Serbia, because we know that all ministers are party people and that they have to listen to their party heads. The SRS is against such proposals, and I'm going to give you an obvious example when one man decides everything. It is Bojan Pajtic, the province's prime minister, who has a large budget, with the assets of the province and decides on the use of money from various province funds. There is an obvious example of one man's will, and the province's assets are mostly directed to municipalities where DS is in power. This example I cited is obvious that no great authority should be given to one man. For these reasons, I have submitted such an amendment, where, in Article 47 of the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Plant Varieties, the Minister, replaces the word - Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21073	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 47th amendment were submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vitomir Plužarevic submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Plužarevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21074	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 48(1) where we propose to reduce the criminal provisions to 200 to two million. Ranges in your comments to make it between 300 million and three million, and the minimum measure is according to all the criteria of 10 to three million. My amendment is also in these correlations, i.e. it is a realistic commentary of the proposal. You say in an explanation – reduced penalties could lead to greater abuse of protected varieties, and I answer – we have already misused all the processors in Serbia. I'll tell you that we in the state of Serbia have destroyed all of our devastations and institutes that have dealt with these affairs. We had a large number of individual agricultural producers who produced fruit material, along with the assistance of these professors and doctors from the institute, and our goods, or our products, were also recognized at the world market, i.e. only one place left in my memory, this is Big Drenova, where millions of wine vines went from Velika Drenovo. It all worked out for Russia. In our country, there were 20 institutes and selecting houses, but we've always had our institutes involved in a variety of craftsmen, that's what our people used to say - gypsies, and today you modern...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21075	Thank you, Mr. Sluzzard. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go, Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21076	Dear fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 48 concerning criminal policy, and I would like to say that it is a criminal policy, but unfortunately it is not, because our ministers are not thrifty in anything, nor in prescribing fines. What all the time when criminal policy is at stake with the SRS, is that the range of those penalties cannot be as large as is foreseen by the bill. The economic crime between 300,000 and 3 million dinars, translate it into euro, three thousand and 10,000 euros is a huge difference. Both are many, but since one type of intellectual property is being protected, I don't think the penalty should be small, but it should not be left to the court to decide whether it will be 3,000 euros or 10,000 euros. Here I think there's been a break-in at point 2, where it's sanctioned for a business offense something that's done a physical face, which is impossible. If you look at Article 14(1), you'll notice that it's probably a rough mistake. My amendment specifically refers to the responsibility of the responsible person and the penalty prescribed in the amount of 50,000 to 200,000 dinars, and I ask that it be from 25,000 to 100,000 dinars, because even 100,000 dinars is a mental noun, and even for these responsible persons, I don't think they have that much income in those jobs where they are. After all, ask anyone in Serbia what 100,000 dinars are, and so are the people's messengers, many eyes will spread. We're losing a little bit of an idea of where we live and how much money we live when we prescribe these fines. I don't know on the basis of whose receipts and opportunities and business entities and natural persons we prescribe fines, but these are some figures with so many zeros that most citizens spin in their heads.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21077	The amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic to article 49. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21078	Article 49. The proposal for this law shall refer to the penalty for the person responsible for the offence if, at the request of the competent authority, he does not deliver the necessary amount of reproductive material necessary for the use of the compulsory licence. As in the previous article, we have proposed that the penalties provided for in the draft law be reduced. It is proposed that the lowest penalty be 10 and the highest 50,000 dinars for this offence, and our proposal is that it be the lowest amount of 5 and the highest 25,000 dinars. Here is an interesting explanation of the government of the Republic of Serbia, I suppose, and Mr Dragin, which is why no amendment has been accepted. You are saying that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that fines for the offence of the person responsible in the legal person in this Member are measured in accordance with the legal range prescribed by the Law on Infringements, according to which the minimum measure of fines that can be prescribed for the responsible person is 500 dinars and the maximum of 50,000 dinars. The proposed reduction of the prescribed penalties could lead to greater abuse of protected varieties to the detriment of the right of processors, which could result in major economic damage. Your argument, Mr. Minister, does not correspond to the actual state, because what you yourself have stated is that the range of penalties in the Law on Violations of 500 to 50,000 dinars is also contained in our amendment. You do not have to accept the amendment, but it was correct to say – we drag the citizens' hands into the pocket at any time, we fill the budget and penalties and contributions, all to the harm of the citizens, and in favour of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21079	National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Sinisa Stamenkovic, the authorised representative of the PUPS, answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21080	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Novakovic, Mr. Minister, on behalf of all members of the Committee on Agriculture of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to thank the MPs for their dedicated, thorough and very responsible participation in the multi-day work of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the adoption of 15 basic laws in the field of agrarians. I especially thank all the professional services of the Serbian Assembly, then the secretary of the Committee, Mrs Zecevic, and the associates, for preparing over 1,300 amendments for the discussion and adoption of them. I thank the Minister of Agriculture and his associates for successfully doing a huge job in rounding up the legal and technical agrarian framework. I am very hoping that this job of MPs and ministries will serve agricultural producers and workers in the food industry to overcome the difficult situation of our agriculture. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21081	Thank you. Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Minister Dr Sasa Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management want the final word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21082	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I would just like to take this opportunity to thank you for your patience, attention and constructive work in the discussion regarding the proposals of the agricultural law. What I would like to mention, I honestly think that we are all here for one single reason, which is that we are working in the interest of the agricultural producer in Serbia and we hope that in the implementation of these laws, which we have discussed these days, there will be a significant improvement in the state of domestic agrarian. What I would like to draw as the most important detail is that through changes to the Law on Land, farmers from the locals will be allowed to have the advantage of taking land, that cattlemen will be allowed to have the advantage of taking up state land and that they will stop bidding on the baseland sums, which the responsible farmers do not want to follow, because they always pay for that land they take from the state to rent. In addition, I would like to mention the agricultural law, which will allow it to form so-called. The farmers' vault or the Agrarian Payments Authority, which is an agency without which funds from European funds cannot be obtained, from rural development funds, from which we can expect between 50m and 60m euros on an annual basis. What is also important to mention, that the Law on Public Storages will allow farmers to stop borrowing on the basis of their property, but on the basis of their product, or that they will not have to sell their product immediately after harvest or after harvest, but will be able to keep it in public warehouses until the price is right for them, and in the meantime, on the basis of the same product, they will be able to re-indemnify themselves and thus move towards the next production. At this economic moment, it is a great challenge to run the Ministry of Agriculture, and believe me, it is not easy for me or my associates to do this right now. We try to do as much as possible with existing resources, both monetary and human resources. I hope you realize how big a shift has been made by presenting 15 laws, given that in the past nine years, only five laws in this area have seen the congregation benches. Once again, I would like to thank you for your attention, for your understanding, as well as for my associates, and for all the employees in the Assembly, but especially for the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Mr Mašić, or his deputy, and for all the members of the Committee on Agriculture, who really work immaculately. Thank you again on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-27-0.u21083	Nice. I hereby conclude the review of the proposal for a law on the protection of the rights of plant breeders in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This would be the end of today's work. We will continue tomorrow, Thursday, May 28th, at 10pm with the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Affairs Act. Get some rest and enjoy yourself.
