ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30948	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall and that there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that MP Milica Radovic has been prevented from attending the session. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly is in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of the proposings Dr Diana Dragutinović, Minister of Finance, Mr Verice Kalanovic, Minister for the National Investment Plan, Mr Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, Dr Saša Dragina, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, called for the sittings to be also attended by Dragan Vukmirović, Director of the Republic Statistics Institute and Nikola Latinović and Vladimir Stankovic, Assistant Director of the Republic Statistics Institute. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL ON THE CLASSIFICATION OF ACTIVITY (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Sreto Perić, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Ljiljana Miladanovic, Saša Maksimović, Bojan Mladenov, Mirko Munjic, Dragan Čolić, Mićo Rogović, Zoran Antic, Stefan Zankov and Milorad Buha. You have received a report from the Committee on Science and Technological Development and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Before moving to the search in detail, I remind you that the MPs Stefan Zankov, Veroljub Arsic and Zoran Antić withdrew the amendment together to Article 7 and Jelena Budimirović, Vučeta Toskovic and Zoran Antić the amendment that they submitted together to Article 7. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is Mr. Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, on this small law, which has a total of 13 members, the Serbian Radical Party has tabled five amendments. You will see that these are very high-quality amendments, amendments aimed at improving the quality of this classification law, and classifying it means fixing, composing, sorting, sorting in order and principle. We estimate that the adoption of such a law for practical reasons makes sense, but the first reason for submitting this amendment is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is seeking to withdraw part of the competence of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by proposing the law and in the coming period. You'll see how he does it. In the past, the Senate, but two and a half centuries before the new era, was a legislative, executive and judicial body; it had certain consuls that it could transfer to the jurisdiction and introduce an emergency, as well as to declare one of the consuls a dictator. The Serbian Radical Party firmly opposes it. We don't want what's in power, under the Constitution and by certain laws, to be transferred to the government's jurisdiction. We suspect that one day the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will bring only the titles of the law, and the contents will be edited by the Government. I don't know, Madam Minister, if this is funny to you, but look: "The classification, including names, codes and descriptions of activity, is prescribed by the Government. “ We propose that the amendment, including names, codes and descriptions of activity, bring the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the government’s proposal. Classification is an integral part of this bill, i.e. after adoption, and of the law. We also have a foothold in the current classification and registration of units of classification. This was the case with the Law that was passed in 1996. We respect all the legal changes from that period onward. It is clear to us that the Agency for Economic Registers has taken (by law) what was in the jurisdiction of business, or trade courts. We want the government to propose a classification and make it an integral part of this law. In 2008, the European Union brought in a new classification. We can respect these principles, actually the Government and you as a congregation majority can respect these principles, but we can never agree that what should be in jurisdiction...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30950	I'm sorry, Mr. Perry. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that you are happy to meet again after the weekend, but I remind you that you have no obligation to sit in the congregation hall; if you are already sitting, please be polite and listen to that MP whose exposure is under way. Thank you in advance for understanding. Mr. Perry, if you'll excuse me one more time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30951	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I absolutely don't mind that, but I would only ask you to keep this time in which you spoke to the SRS MP group, and I totally don't care about those national representatives who don't want to hear what the SRS is talking about. So we've submitted five amendments in total. This is the most important amendment, the other amendments are a logical trail of this amendment. Of the five amendments submitted, to a law that has a total of 13 members, only one reads that article 11 will be deleted, which will be spoken of by MP Mr Mirko Munjic, and the other amendments give other proposals, which I believe do not affect much in essence, unless you can make what is in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and leave it. I hope that there will be understanding for the adoption of this amendment by Mrs Dragutinovic and that in the day to vote this amendment, as well as the subsequent amendments submitted to this law, will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30952	Thank you, Mr. Perry. The time used by the parliamentary group is two minutes. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jorvanka Tabakovic, Ljiljana Miladanovic and Sasa Maskimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30953	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Bojan Mladenovic, on behalf of the SRS, submitted this very meaningful amendment to article 4. The draft law provides for the government to prescribe a methodology that will bring the process of classification closer to work. The amendment submitted by Mr Mladenovic reads - Article 4 paragraph 2 is amended and reads: "The classification of works is done according to the methodology established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". The government decided that this amendment, with a very brief explanation: “Amendment is not accepted because the methodology for classification by work is prescribed by the government. “ This amendment proposed that the National Assembly be involved in a process that would circle the definition of this very important matter. By rejecting this amendment, the government excluded the National Assembly, as the most legislative body, from this process precisely because of the role played by the National Assembly and because following the meetings of the National Assembly, citizens have the opportunity to be informed. The position of the Serbian Radical Party is that this amendment should have been accepted, as well as an amendment to Article 3, which was submitted on behalf of the SRS by Mr Sreto Peric, who is also proposing the participation of the National Assembly in the process of adopting the classification, and on a proposal from the government. In the end, I will say today that the Serbian parliament in its work violates the Constitution, the law and the rules of procedure on its work. The Management Board and the National Assembly president do not take into account the fact that two MPs of the SRS, Elena Bozic-Talijan, were resigned on 31 August this year. At the 48th session of the Administrative Board, it was decided that there were allegedly no conditions for accepting the resignations and termination of the mandate. In this way, our will is not respected by these resignations, which, note, have been submitted neatly. All other parliamentary groups were allowed to make changes in their composition, only the Serbian Radical Party disputes this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30954	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jorgvanka Tabaković, Ljiljana Miladanovic and Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jorgvanka Tabaković, Ljiljana Miladanovic and Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jorgvanka Tabaković, Ljiljana Miladanovic and Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30955	We had the best intention of correcting the quality of this law, and in this regard we submitted an amendment to Article 7(3). The proposal for a classification law, which states: “The classification unit for which there is no registration obligation directly provides the data necessary for the classification of the authority responsible for statistics affairs. “ We suggested that this obligation be realized within 30 days of the establishment of the unit of classification. The government has not accepted this amendment, and in an explanation why it does not accept this amendment, it is said: “The amendment is not accepted because the classification unit for which there is no registration obligation directly provides data for the classification of the statistical authority and their classification is normally carried out on the same day. “ This is not seen in the provisions of Article 7 paragraph 3 of this bill, and it is not true. The government gives this reason because it does not want to accept the amendment. You're not obliged to do that either, but if you want us to have legal regulations that apply, which will mean something to someone, then you have to be a little more specific. It must make more sense for those who will apply these laws. I have a feeling that your goal is just to tell you how many laws, decisions, and other acts this assembly has adopted, without your serious intention to apply them, and that your laws, and the Constitution, mean nothing to you. You had the opportunity, fellow MPs, to hear from our colleague Lidija Dimitrijevic that laws and regulations mean absolutely nothing to you. Go to that practice that old Rome had – let the government also be legislative to you, both the executive and the judicial authority, so you will see what with the assessment and how the citizens of Serbia evaluate your arrogant behaviour and your incorrect relationship. You should be much more concerned with what is now a fundamental problem, and these are jobs. Madam Minister, it's a good opportunity for me to tell you that I've spoken to a certain number of businessmen at the weekend, who have nothing against VAT, against the VAT system, but pay attention a little bit when it comes to those companies that import, and how it pays. They are in a position to take loans, which are extremely expensive, to invest in crafts and thus pay VAT to the state. It's okay, you have to pay certain taxes to the state, because it works from there, and it provides us with public and other services, but you need to reconsider how to pass a certain legal rule at a certain time. It may be a good and optimal solution, but when circumstances change, think a little bit about your attitude towards economic operators, according to Serbian citizens, should change. Besides, that's why the elections were held, which is why Serbian citizens trusted certain political parties, and you were chosen by the assembly majority. But you sit there on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, not because it's nice for you. It must be very nice for you there, and as it is for the citizens of Serbia, it will tell you in the next elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30956	Thank you. The time spent from the time of the parliamentary group is one minute and forty seconds. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30957	I suggested that article 11 be deleted. To remind me that Article 11 states that within 60 days of the date of entry into force of the provisions of Articles 3 and 4 of Article 2 of this proposal, the Government will prescribe a classification and methodology for the classification of works. We asked for this article to be deleted, which is a logical trail, the logical consequence of the previous amendment that we have tabled on the proposal for this law, which requires that classification be an integral part of this law, that is to say, that it is the National Assembly that will bring it to the Government's proposal. In his explanation, the government says that it, the government, will, within 60 days, prescribe a classification of action and a methodology for classification by work. That's not an explanation, the explanation would be why the government would bring a classification, why she would do it, not the National Assembly, as we asked for the previous amendment. There is a classic sub-premation of enforcement over the legislative authority here. As it happens in many situations, here we are witnessing that this is happening in this law as well. What's he trying to do at every turn? It is trying to minimise the work of this assembly, this legislative body, while at the same time presenting the government's work, so the work of executive bodies. At the same time, it tries to give meaning to everything the government is doing. If it is known how this government is formed and who is behind the formation of this government, who ultimately controls this government, then it is clear to everyone where it leads us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30958	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Colic, Mico Rogovic and Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Zoran Antic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30959	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SNS, I'm just going to say that we've submitted some five-six amendments to the classification law, that our wish was, first of all, when it comes to classification units, to make some qualitative shifts. When it comes to overwork, we think it's not a naive topic at all. Unfortunately, we haven't come across enough understanding from the government as a proposing. We think that the most important activity determines, when it comes to the subject of classification, his rights and obligations, because depending on how it is defined under the Agency for Economic Registers, he can possibly apply for loans, for subsidies. The way it is classified can have an important impact on the business of a business operator. We also wanted to give the right and the classification units, in Article 5, to make an appeal to the solution they receive from the Agency for Economic Registers and thus possibly change the way they are classified. We think that these are practical solutions in the interest of the economy, in the interest of economic operators, that the government should have an understanding of that. We also filed a few amendments when it comes to deadlines. We wanted to coordinate them, in our opinion, and with Article 13, which in some way delays the application of this law by about 90 days, three months. Therefore, there was also room for the deadlines prescribed by this law to be shorter. I'm saying, law enforcement alone doesn't start for three months. In any case, our wish was that through this important law, which also has a significant impact on the monitoring of some statistics on social policy, with some economic parameters that are very important for the development of every society, especially for this moment in which we live, that through this law and through the following statistical law we get better quality data, so that we can follow the situation in our economy and react in a better way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30960	Thank you, Mr Antic. Thirty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mico Rogovic, Saša Maksimovic, Stefan Zankovi Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. () Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the closing statement, Minister? Yeah. Here you go. The Minister has a word. Mrs. Diana Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30961	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the law that lies before you essentially has an idea to adapt to Eurostat. There are two dominant ways to regulate this: one way is to adopt the law, but nowhere, no classification is the subject of that law in any country; another dominant direction is to directly apply what Eurostat defines. We chose to define this area by law. The law is, I'm not going to say it's copied, I'm going to say it's translated. Those countries that have these laws, they have a law that's governed in this way. Nowhere in any country does the classification nor does it be decided by the National Assembly. So we used a dominant experience when it comes to the application of this law. Why shouldn't this classification be the subject of this law? Because classifications change. With any change in classification or code, this law would have to be amended. Therefore, dominant practice – direct application of what Eurostat changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30962	Thank you, Mrs. Dragutinović. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. (Greto Peric, from town: Replica. ) There is no replica when we end the search of the bill in particular. We're going to the 14th point... (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30963	Reporting under Article 31. Rules of Procedure. Since it is my duty as vice-president of the Assembly to assist you in the work, in time, I told you, Mr. Novakovic, before you read the sentence from the synopsis to conclude the search of the bill in particular, that the authorised representative of the SRS Mr. Sreto Peric reported the replica of Mrs. Dragutinovic. You have seen yourself, since you have warned first and foremost the MPs of the ruling coalition, both yours and the Democratic Party and others, that they are not following at all the course of the sitting of 10.00 hours, that Mr Sreto Peric is saying about the key amendment to the bill (and now individuals to ask which one was this law we discussed, they do not know that they are telling you) that they will try to convince you that the amendments submitted by him, Mr Munjic and Mrs Dimitrijevic, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, are extremely important. Anyway, he waited for Mrs. Minister to give the closing statement and listen to what she had to say. It was extremely unfair and unbusinessful of you, reading to the end what it says in the reminder for the president's work, missed or did not give Mr. Peric the opportunity to give the replica to Mrs. Minister. I think you're thereby denying that interactive communication between MPs and ministers. I don't know why you're afraid of it, because if you're sure of the law you're proposing, then listen to what we have to say, and especially Mr. Peric, who was extremely well prepared for this set of laws and who now wanted to give Mrs. Dragutinovic an additional argument. What we're discussing doesn't mean anything, because in the voting day, I suppose you, Mr. Novakovic, should consider some amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30964	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. The law on replicas is regulated by Article 101, I do not want to remind you, and Article 144 specifically says that when the draft law is completed, in particular, the right to the final word is proposed, i.e. by the proposed representative. This concludes the debate on the draft law in particular. So the different situation is compared to the law's proposal in principle. The Rules of Procedure also include Mr Dragan Todorovic, head of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30965	Mr. Novakovic, you should also call on Article 100 of Article 3 which says: “The President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, gives a word to the MP who points to the violation of the position of the first member, immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” As far as the replica goes, you have an 101. I appeal to article 101 and to article 113 where it is clearly said that the right to the replica has an MP if someone in the wrong way, or any other way, interpreted his words, and Article 113 says that this applies to all those who participate in the work of the National Assembly, including ministers. Mr. Novakovic, most well-intentioned, I will not argue in advance that you have done this from any other initiative, but because you are thus assessing whether you should give a word to the MP, whether you should give him a replica or not, but I would ask you, Mr. Novakovic, to sit down, so that the President of the Assembly and vice presidents who lead the meetings of the Assembly, and to agree that your discretionary right in some does not turn into a discriminatory right. You are the vice president who (and I have had such a problem with you) does not give MPs the right to replica when they expose ministers. Ministers aren't sacred cows. They came here to propose laws, to defend their proposals, which is totally fine; we attack them from our point of view and I don't think there's any problem. You're creating a problem. So, agree and coordinate how to hold a session does not depend on who sits in that chair, to make sure MPs have rights to the Rules of Procedure or do not. If they do, they will have them with anyone who presides, not that it depends on each other. I'd like you to do something about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30966	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. My answer is to the injury you are calling for the exact same explanation I gave Miss Jovanovic. If you're not satisfied, you say so, and in the day of the vote we'll make a statement. As for the suggestion, I'm going to initiate this week to bring practice into line with the law on replication, which I'm going to personally inform you about. It's possible it's the right thing to do when I'm using it more rigidly, but I'm the man in this combination. I am sure that the change of opinion in relation to the conclusion of the debate on the bill in particular will not bring such a consultation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30967	Mr. Novakovic, this is about one thing that, I suppose, doesn't have to prove much, it's enough to look at the video. I can give you that. You are obliged to take a look, when the minister or anyone else completes the discussion (if that electronic system works, since we have warned you), whether someone has answered or not. If you're not doing it, but you have the goal of ending it, and you read the script, then it's pointless for us to convince ourselves. I'm saying again, I'm not going to leave the point that you did it on purpose. You may have done it, which you would say, without wanting to deny anyone, but this is one of the ways that we don't even get into a situation to discuss this. One more thing, Mr. Novakovic -- look at the sessions of the other chairmans, who give replicas to the minister's presentation. Either they're wrong, or you're wrong. There's no way you and they're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30968	Mr. Todorovic, member of 144, unfortunately for you, is quite clear. If you bring me that anyone but me, once or in two, has allowed replicas after the final debate on the draft law, I will withdraw everything and confess the breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you are not satisfied with the explanations, say, please; I will not give you my word anymore, but I will give Mrs. Radetti, who is also calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Dragan Todorovic: To declare MPs in voting day. ) In the day of voting, the Assembly will declare whether I have violated the provisions of the Rules of Procedure today when I denied Mr. Peric's right to the replica, Article. 101st and 113st. Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30969	Mr. Novakovic, you just said yourself that you have denied Mr. Peric the right to replicate the minister. You did it, you confessed well now. I remind you of article 113. A Rules of Procedure that says that the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on the order of the sitting... (President: Mrs Radeta, Mr Todorovic has already advertised this injury. I remind you of the obligation of Article 100... ) I remind you of Article 27. You are, on the basis of Article 27, under the obligation to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You have read well Article 144, which says: “When the draft law is completed in particular, the right to the final word is given by the Proposer, or the Authorised Representative of the Proposer.” Here's the point, Mr. Novakovic. Where did you draw the conclusion that the MP couldn't replicate the minister? You were just talking about some rigid and less rigid application of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Novakovic, we are colleagues by profession and we should know that there is no rigid and less rigid application than the Rules of Procedure is either applicable or not. If you are applying the Rules of Procedure, you have been obliged to give a word to fellow Members of the Parliament, because according to your interpretation, the minister could have been most harshly offended by the MP, which she did not, but she did misread the MP, and you say the minister has the last word. It's just not true. The law is not only read, but interpreted, colleague Novakovic. I ask you, most beautifully, that, interpreting Article 144 and Article 100, you give the right to the replica of your colleague, Peric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30970	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Realising this moment that there is no violation of the provisions of article 27 and staying with the same interpretation that I gave to Ms. Jovanovic and Mr. Todorovic, I am giving it to you, and I believe that there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. If you are not satisfied, in the day of the vote, the Assembly will declare itself. (The Faith of Radeta: I ask that the Assembly declare itself. ) The assembly will declare in the voting day whether a injured member is 27. According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30971	Mr. Chairman, earlier, when you were responding to the president of our parliamentary group, Mr. Dragan Todorovic (one part was interpreted by Radet) you said that you were in play (and Mr. Todorovic clearly noticed when it came to him, especially) more rigorously in expressing views about who has the right to reply, who does not, and even by giving a warning, which happened to you at last week's session. You said it was clearly recorded in the stenogram, that you – since Mr. Todorovic said that you who chair should take a clear view – in that combination, I guess you meant the chairman, the man. I'd like to ask you, and I'm advertising Article 104. Rules of Procedure, never mind such insinuations from members, conditionally speaking, of the weaker sex. Because you wanted to say that you are a man, so you are allowed to have such a rigorous attitude towards Mr. Todorovic or other SRS MPs, and if someone else is sitting, it is not. You have Mrs. Komic's case – she is a woman, so she has no such attitude towards the MPs, that she is more or less tolerated than she has her own interpretation. Since the two of us, colleagues, are sitting here as vice presidents, of the six vice-presidents of the Assembly, I'm going to ask you not to make such innuendos in the future, because, however, being a member, conditionally speaking, of the stronger sex, is proven elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30972	There is no harm to any member of the Rules of Procedure, especially since you have not called on any of the members of the Rules of Procedure. (Natasa Jovanovic: I am on Article 104) Then I apologize. It may have been a joke that wasn't involved, but there's certainly no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The difference in the conduct of the session depends on the person currently holding the presidency; therefore, in the proceedings we cannot be exactly the same. I remain with the arguments and promises I made to Mr Todorovic regarding those consultations on the application of the replica provisions. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE OFFICIAL STATISTICS (individuals) You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs: Dusan Marić, Sreto Perić, Vitomir Plužarević, Milan Avramović, Boris Aleksic, Vlada Milojković, Aleksandra Ilic and Milutin Jelic, Radisa Ilic, Radojko Obradović, Milorad Buha, Yorvanka Tabaković and Zoran Antić, Bojan Mladenov, Aleksandar Martinović, Srboljub Živanovic, Dobrislav Prelic, Tomislav Ljubenović, Aleksandra Ilic, Milorad Krstin and Dragan Zivkov. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Dusan Maric submitted an amendment to Article 1 proposing that in this article and to all the other members of the bill mentioning the word "dyssemination" be replaced by "presentation" in an appropriate decline. The word is Mr. Maric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30973	Thank you. Mr. Novakovic, can I make a dissemination of this amendment? You don't understand. I don't understand either. For this reason, I have submitted a proposal to replace in the 30-seat text the term "dyssemination" with the Serbian word "presentation", although that term is not appropriate, I do not understand the purpose it would have in the bill. The term “dissemination” was found in medical terminology, and there it means dissipation – dissipating any pathological material, microorganisms, viruses, bacteria, but it has nothing to do with statistics. In the light of this law, the government says that dissemination is the representation of data. Then I absolutely don't understand, if there is already a discremination of data, why isn't that Serbian word used? In an explanation of why my amendment was rejected, the Government says – the word "disemination" is used because the bill provides a definition of this word. You have to admit, it's a completely inconceivable explanation. It could have been used any word, and it would have been enough to give the explanation of that word and to keep that word in the bill. We have official documents, including bill proposals, full of foreign words and expressions that most Serbian citizens do not mean, let alone understand. The use of these words and expressions is even contrary to the Serbian Constitution, which clearly regulates that in Serbia there are Serbian languages and Cyrillic letters. The term "dyssemination" is not in any case a Serbian word. Using these and similar words would be understandable only if there were no adequate words in Serbian. I suggest that the government show little good will and accept this amendment, to cast out this foreign, meaningless word, the medical word "dyssemination" and to include the word "presentation". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30974	Thank you, Maric. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30975	Mr. Novakovic, you are a good lawyer, and you have just demonstrated that you are a good reader of certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly by reading one of the provisions by which you have denied me the right to reply. You say - the right to the final word has someone who is a representative of the government. That's not what we're arguing about. Do you think... And I am responsibly telling you that no Serbian radical would come at this time to defend or give any final word on behalf of this government. It was not my intention either, when you read to me that I had no right to give the final word, to give the final word; you couldn't even force me to give the final word on behalf of a government like this. My intention was to share an experience with Mrs Dragutinovic. Mrs Dragutinović, thank you for commenting on the previous law. Of course, I'll talk about this amendment. You said we couldn't pass the law at all and we could bring it. We have accepted your proposal to pass the law, we will not vote anyway, with certain amendments. You say, nowhere in any country does the classification determine parliament. Now I'm going to tell you something: nowhere, in no country does the president of that state say -- there will be 200,000 jobs, and then there will be layoffs all over Serbia, and even small local self-governments. Nowhere in any government vice president in the world, I'm not going to use a harsher word, five million citizens telling them they're going to get 1,000 euros. Nowhere in any country, the other vice-president of the government says that pensions will follow the growth of earnings and others, and that they will be limited and earnings and pensions; and not only that, disfigured and unthinked work, the most difficult work, such as working in mines, agricultural land, or good. Just so much about what's out there and what's not there. Here's evidence that you, I would say at all, are not reading the amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party. Make quality of these legal proposals, you can do so by accepting the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party. Why do you make this country an additional cost, when everything we propose is like amendments for a few months in your proposal to amend and supplement certain legislative proposals? We have submitted an amendment to Article 1(2). Here, listen to what he was referring to. Article 1 regulates the subject matter of the law, as usual. When you say that we are harmonising our many legislative proposals with the needs of joining the EU, you know what, Madam Minister, you do not cause pity or enthusiasm in us. You're just talking about the possibility of using funds from pre-accession funds. You never say what the price is, what the citizens of Serbia are going to suffer in this accession process, but you're just trying to throw dust in your eyes and that the citizens believe that there are some pre-accession funds in the accession process that are just waiting for you to show up and then transfer through the government or otherwise get those funds to the citizens of Serbia. That's not gonna happen. But what was your problem with accepting this amendment? He says: “This law regulates all activities... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” We are proposing to delete this “all things, ” meaning: “the activities necessary are regulated... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” If I did not read further, then, it could again stand “this law regulates all activities, all necessary, all for preparation, all for collection. ” That's really pointless. It doesn't bother you at all with the concept of this law, and you will begin to bring, colleagues from the position... I didn't see him accepted here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30976	I just wanted to say that this amendment has been accepted. In Article 1, paragraph 2, the word “all ” is deleted. The dissemination – indeed, I also don't like the use of foreign words, but "dissemination" has a more comprehensive meaning than "representation". “ We haven’t found the right word, but I completely accept criticism, and I think the Serbian language should develop in terms of a better translation of some words. This time you'll forgive me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30977	The second amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. Mr. Plužarević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30978	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs have submitted only an amendment to Article 2 which regulates the definition of official statistics: “The official statistics provide, on an unbiased basis, numerical and representative data and information on mass economic, demographic and social phenomena and phenomena from the field of working and living environment, for all users: economic operators and their associations, state bodies, bodies of autonomous provinces and bodies of units of local self-government, cultural, educational and scientific institutions, as well as for the general public. Official statistics meet the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia relating to the production, dissemination, analysis and publication of official statistical information. “ My amendment makes a comment – this “mass” is deleted. We believe that this story, or definition -- is "massive", surpassed in science, especially in statistics. We know that you have an obligation to comply with this law with UN and EU regulations as well. Experts leading this country, and we know where we are today, have led the people and the state to believe that statistics are nothing for their arrogant behavior. All those world statisticians didn't give you instructions to assess the damage they did to us statistically. That damage is two hundred billion dollars. In the middle of Belgrade, you have this picture. Aren't you able to point out these statistical errors of their experts? That mass of your statistics was common in Serbia for 78 days. In this law, there are two things that could be improved, which is that in Article 16, which defines the advice, they must be resolved by law, not by rules of procedure, because the Rules of Procedure are an internal act, and that the advices meet twice a year, and not only by that Rules of Procedure, perhaps never. These tips are profiled as well as the Government – so if a ministry has taken a certain position or comment, for example, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and if there is any serious comment tomorrow, it will be a flaw, i.e. the error of this law. We believe that this law should regulate affairs, not desires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30979	National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 6 and Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. The word is Mr. Milojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30980	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 6 and 6. The proposal for a law on official statistics, which reads, the word "responsible" is deleted. The government did not accept this amendment, explaining that the term "responsible producers" was reserved for institutions authorised under a five-year statistical programme to carry out official statistical research. Article 6 lists institutions that are authorised, which are: the Republic Statistics Institute, the National Bank of Serbia, the City Authority for the City of Belgrade, for the territory of the city of Belgrade. This law stipulates that only responsible institutions receive funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, as well as funds achieved by specific processing of data, additional procedures and similar statistical activities that are not foreseen by the current programme and plan. For this reason, I believe that the word “responsible” should be deleted from the bill, because in this case, the responsibility will also be privileged by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30981	Thank you. Members of the 6th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Milutin Jelic. The word is Miss Alexandra Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30982	President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to the proposal for a law on official statistics. Article 6th of the 1st point 3 of the proposal for a law on official statistics singled out Belgrade as a special unit of official statistics producers. In this way, it comes to the situation that not all cities in Serbia are treated equally. By accepting this amendment, the organisation of the system of official statistical statistics would be more comprehensive because there would be more responsible producers of official statistics. If the city administration of the city of Belgrade is covered, there is no reason for this special detachment compared to other cities, which, as responsible producers of official statistics, would certainly contribute fully to statistical activities by participating in the field. In the end, it is not right for other cities to be in the second plan in relation to the city of Belgrade and fall under other responsible producers of official statistics if the Council for Statistics of the Republic of Serbia puts them on its list, as the advice under this bill sets out a list of other responsible producers of official statistics.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30983	Thank you. National MP Dusan Maric submitted an amendment proposing that Articles 7 and all other members of the bill mentioning the word "implementation" be replaced by "application" in an appropriate decline. Does Mr. Maric want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30984	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted this amendment for the same reasons for which we have proposed replacing the word "dyssemination". If I'm right, you can see from the reasoning the government gave, which is why she didn't accept my amendment. It explains: “Amendment is not accepted because it is a term applied in statistics... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” I point out this: ‘which is applied’; why did you not use the word ‘implement’? You did not use the word "implement" because it is innate to you, this term is "applying". So that's why you wrote what you wrote in the explanation. Another thing, where does it say that this term is applied to statistics? It doesn't say anything. Absolutely nowhere. I'm sorry, Madam Minister climate-headed. Does that mean the amendment was accepted?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30985	Yes, that means the amendment has been accepted. Sorry we didn't do that on time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30986	Thank you. I understand that Mr. Maric's amendment to article 7 has been accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Mr. Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30987	Thank you, my fellow Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, we have had a number of amendments on these laws. I must point out that some of our amendments we have proposed, and it seems to me that the laws on the agenda were in June or July of this year, some of our amendments were then rejected, and are now accepted. We couldn't stand them. It's a good thing they're part of the text. We're not going to go into any of the reasons why they were bad then, and why they're good now, if the text of the law is identical. It's important that they fix the law, and it's important that they're part of the law now. With this amendment, we have proposed that the term of office director be four years. An explanation of why the amendment is not accepted is that the Law on civil servants provides for the term of office director and similar institutions to be five years. The goal is clear to us. The goal is to reach a depoliticized state administration. But if you look at the Civil Service Act, every few months it is in a congregation debate with amendments and additions, because the deadlines are constantly extending; competitions in which these depolitised civil servants will be chosen are not being conducted and it is obvious that this law does not give the effect that should be done. One of the goals of state administration reform, one of the objectives of the Democratic Party of Serbia, is certain that state administrations will be depolitised. But if the mandate is longer than the government's mandate and it's the only way to depoliticalize, then it's neither good nor the right way. We can read every day that a party official has frozen membership in a particular party, that he is no longer formally a member. And whether he's a member or not, you have every day cases of going from certain parties to other... When you look at television, just forget it, if you haven't been to Serbia for a while, who's in which party? Thus, being good to one or another is absolutely no guarantee of expertise or anything else. What we all have to strive for together is to have clear rules and uniform regulations. There's a statistical law on the agenda. If you look at the National Bank of Serbia site, because they have one part... Mrs Dragutinović, you were a vice governor, you know very well how much attention in NBS is given to statistics. You know I like to use papers. If you look at one page, official employment data in the Republic of Serbia, the National Bank says – 2.568,056 employees, and the number of unemployed is 830,391. If you look at the "Serbian Economic Diagram", issued by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic Development Institute, again based on data from the Republic Statistics Institute, the number of employees is 1,827,598 and the number of unemployed is 747,093. We have two state bodies, a government and an independent National Bank, and the number of employees differs by 700,000, the number of unemployed by 100,000. Much bigger countries than Serbia can't just mistake it for 700,000, or 100,000. What's the secret? The methodology is completely different, the National Bank takes into account these figures and farmers. Where can you read that? Nowhere. You need to be deeply focused on the methodology, which you very often cannot find on websites or elsewhere, in order to get these basic data on how many employees there are in Serbia, how many unemployed there are. On the other hand, the more unemployed there are, the more often the methodology changes, so there are active employees, there are people looking for a job. Well, if you look at the number of employees, it has been shrinking in Serbia for the last year; the number of unemployed is also decreasing. What's the difference? How can both numbers be reduced, both the number of employees and the number of unemployed? It's okay, Serbia has a negative birth rate, but the difference is that the National Service, in order to seemingly cover up unemployment, has persons actively looking for work, and those who are not active in job-seeking are being removed from the list of unemployed, so they fluctuate I don't know where. Depolitisation and these things we're talking about will contribute much more if we have a clear and unique methodology. Not to mention that Serbia's company rating is being led to three places: both in the NBS, and in the Ministry of Urbanism and Construction, i.e. environmental protection, or whatever it is called, and at the Agency for Economic Registers. It's exactly the same data. What are the odds that your data will be matched and that it won't be in a direct relationship? Another thing, let's say, you'll soon pass us a bill on the budgetary system and fiscal responsibility. It seems to me that the methodology for budgeting is absolutely clear, according to November 1st. This is a new law, we are no longer talking about an old law that was violated at the time of the first government of Vojislav Kostunica, when the minister was Dinkic, and at the time of the second government, when the minister was Cvetkovic, neither minister nor minister brought it in in time. We're talking about a new law that we passed here a few months ago as a basic law that applies to public finances. Is that where it says November 1st? It says. Is the November 1st budget supposed to be in the Assembly? Is that right? It's not. When will it be? You don't know. Today's paper says it'll be by the end of the week. The well-informed sources, allegedly from your ministry, said on Thursday or Friday – there until December 19th. That's a bit more joyous, because it won't be until half of December, but I guess next week. Is that clear information? Yes, it is. Do we have an excuse like last year that it was an economic crisis so we had to adapt? I don't think so. As much as we can understand that maybe someone doesn't have enough English knowledge, so when they talk to the International Monetary Fund about what pensions will be, then the vice-president of the government comes out in charge of reforming the pension system and says – pensions will coordinate with the growth of earnings and will be 70% of the value of profit... The finance minister says it's not like that, it's going to be something else. The governor says it'll be a little different. Mr. Jaeger also says it will be completely different. But it doesn't matter. I may be able to understand that, but these budget delays are absolutely incomprehensible. What I'm saying is that the explanation that this amendment is not accepted absolutely does not stand, as you have seen from these examples. It seems to me that if we work to remove all these illogicalities, the shortcomings, we'll be much closer to the goal, because it's not the intention that matters, but it's the ultimate result. I have a few more amendments, so I'm going to take the opportunity to convince you, on specific examples in the reasons of these amendments, to accept them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30988	Thank you. Six minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30989	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. The bill, so I would read the provision of Article 10: "The director of the Institute is obliged to protect the professional credibility of official statistics, especially when this credibility is threatened by the influences of non-professional character and comes from state authorities, political parties or other stakeholders outside the system of official statistics". When we look at this provision, we see a lot of language unknowns. The legislator himself used the term "professional", which we (i.e. SRS) in the amendment because the credibility of an institution, and thus official statistics, can be general credibility, can be professional, can be intellectual, can be scientific, can be unprofessional, can be professional etc. Here you just put "protective professional credibility". This reduced the importance of credibility itself; we should not have put "professional", because we excluded all others, as I said, both professional and intellectual, and scientific, and general etc. On the other hand, in the article itself, you used the term “can be threatened by the influences of an unprofessional character. ” Why just unprofessional? It can also be of professional character and can come from state authorities, political parties and other stakeholders. Here again, in a language sense, you've diminished character... But it is interesting to have your argument, that is, the government’s explanation, which says: “Amendment is not accepted because it is not necessary to tax-list possible unprofessional influences on the professional credibility of official statistics. “ Do you not understand yourself when you wrote this? What does "unprofessional impact on the professional credibility of official statistics" mean? Can't it be a professional impact on the professional credibility of official statistics? I think it's a professional impact on official statistics. When you create certain data, especially data on the national social product, nowhere, in any official government or official statistics, we cannot obtain real, relevant data. It's a professional impact on official statistics. It's weird that the government is going with this kind of explanation. But it's no wonder, given that in practice, which you're confirming here yourself, it has a direct impact on the official organs that go with certain data. This is also the influence of state authorities, political parties or other stakeholders on official statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30990	Thank you, Mr. Buha. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jorvanka Tabakovic and Zoran Antić. The government has accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Jorvanka Tabaković and Zoran Antić. The word is Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30991	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of the Serbian Progressive Party seems pretty clear through these amendments that we have submitted to the text of this law. In essence, we are dissatisfied with the independence of the Republic Bureau of Statistics and the fact that in no way is the subject of this law, it is stressed that international standards in the field of statistics must be fully monitored. We wanted to highlight this through a supplement of Article 12, because Article 12 is about the National Bank of Serbia and its right to set standards for official statistics without having an obligation to comply with internationally recognised standards. I think there are many members who have the influence of the government in relation to the Republic Bureau of Statistics. We have not submitted amendments to all the members. I think it is an opportunity to, as an argument to this claim, make it clear that, let's say, we have a problem when it comes to the relationship between the Republic Bureau of Statistics and Government when setting standards and methodologies (as I said, the Republic Bureau of Statistics fully depends on the government); when it comes to the conflict between the Bureau of Statistics and the official statistics producer of the Government has the responsibility to decide on these conflicts and yet it is the discretionary right to affect the methodology in fact; we have the fact that there are only four independent members in the Statistics Council of the 17 members (three from the scientific and research institutions, one from the statistical society), and that 13 members of the statistical advice from various ministries, starting from the Ministry of Finance, Economy, Trade, Agriculture, Labour, Health. As I said, in Article 12, we see the independence of the NBS in relation to the statistical institution and its right to decide on the methodology, which may be the most important in terms of economic policy, because these are mainly parameters that touch macroeconomic issues, in general, economic parameters on which the performance and failure of a government are assessed. I am deeply convinced that in previous years we had a very serious abuse of statistical data; that, as some of my colleagues said earlier, we received different data from different institutions; that these data often do not fit with those data that we can see on Eurostat's website, it even happens that, fundamentally, GDP on that site is much smaller than it is in the presentation of some government institutions; that we had a difference in data between the Ministry of Finance and the Republic Bureau of Statistics. And today, we have a different accounting of GDP than these European institutions, in the sense that in 2002 we take as a base year, while some valid EU-level regulations are that this is the previous year, because we have different price parities, disparities, which have a significant impact on the increase in gross social product. Based on such a calculated GDP, we have a public consumption that is even higher than it is officially seen, greater than the possibility of economy, than the possibility of citizens, but that's how it hides itself. We have a lot of problems when it comes to regional inequality and the assessment of gross social product by regions. As early as 2005, as far as I have information, the Statistical Institute has stopped taking care of these data in one objective and proper way; we do not have enough of them in public, so as not to notice regional differences, which are increasing and deepening. The fact is, according to this data we had in 2005, that more than 80% of GDP was achieved in Nis, Belgrade and Novi Sad, and that the majority of the interior contributed very little to the country's economic development, that these data are certainly more unfavourable than the interior and are getting worse from day to day. That's what the government and the statistical institute are covering up. We also have a problem with the average profit. I think the average profit and methodology of the calculation itself is extremely problematic, that there is not enough respect for private economy. Something was done in 2004, but based on these changes in the way the data was calculated, the data was incomparable. In principle, there is often a change in methodology; often there is a coverage of the data that enters that statistical account... That's why there's more manipulation, more and more different data coming from different sources. It is obvious that the problem of the interference of the executive government, the impact of the creators of economic policy on official statistics, is that what determines the data, enhances our reality. I am sure that, unfortunately, the reality, the economic reality is very bad, when you ask the citizens of Serbia, that they are very unhappy with their standards, that they are very unhappy with the perspective. In a way, this is the way the reckoning tries to reduce their dissatisfaction or manipulate the citizens themselves. Therefore, I urge you to consider this amendment to the Serbian Progressive Party. Our goal was only to comply with international standards, to prevent anyone, above all, from manipulating the data. It's not just about the present, it's about the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30992	On behalf of Chapter III, the title above Article 13 and Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Master Aleksandar Martinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30993	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Articles 13 and the next several members mention the advice on statistics, which is supposed to be an expert body, i.e. a professional body within the statistical system of the Republic of Serbia. So, formally, it should be professional, but in Article 15, we don't get any guarantees that the advice will be really professional, because when you look at Article 15, which is closely related to Article 13, you see that about the members of the council, literally all the members of the statistical council, will name the relevant ministers, ministers who are at the head of different resolutions, and that they can be both appointed and employed persons. Therefore, the minister will run, or propose, a member of the statistical council employed, or appointed a person working in a ministry. What is your guarantee that this advice will be a professional body? This is a good opportunity to talk about another problem that arises in today's statistics of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs Dragutinovic, this bill of law that you are defending today in the National Assembly is called the Bill on Official Statistics. The prefix that statistics is official probably means that statistics are based on some scientific methodology, that it comes from some scientific principles, from some principles that have been widely accepted in statistics as well as in sciences and social sciences, so that the collection of these data obtained by applying these scientific methods represents the official statistics of the Republic of Serbia. However, I want to point out one thing that has been going on for several years in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Tomorrow we will start a debate on an unconstitutional law on the determination of the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, and on Wednesday we should discuss the unconstitutional statute, or the draft statutes of the AP Vojvodina. The law should also apply to the territory of the AP Vojvodina, therefore, the law on official statistics. Several years ago, when various types of statistical polls are being conducted in Vojvodina, from the census in Vojvodina, or in all of Serbia, as well as in Vojvodina in 2002 and to this day, you have a new statistical category in Vojvodina, which points to the emergence of a new nation, which is a nation-Vojvodjan. Today, if you are employed in an institution in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, you will be offered a survey, or one questionnaire on your personal data. Among other things, they'll ask you what your nationality is like. In addition to being a Serb, Hungarian, Croat, Romanian, Roma, etc., one of the options is that you can also be a Vojvodjan. Today it is clear to everyone that such a nation does not exist, that such a nation is invented, that such a nation has no historical, political, cultural, sociological, any basis whatsoever. Someone seems intent on making a new nation, as was the case in BiH, Montenegro, Macedonia, in ten, fifty or 100 years. They started doing it by saying in Vojvodina now, I'm a duchess by nationality. It's just as pointless as anyone would say - I'm by the nationality of the Shumadian; or – I'm by nationality, I don't know, Sremac; or – I'm by the nationality of Hercegovic. So keep in mind that your law on official statistics will also apply in one part of the Republic of Serbia where statistics are not official, where statistics are not a scientific category, but where statistics are a daily category and serve to create some new nations. You know how it ended in BiH, as it ended in Montenegro, you know what is happening in today's Macedonia. So, to prevent this, please, Mrs Dragutinovic, make sure that statistics in Vojvodina are also part of the integrated system of statistics of the Republic of Serbia. Do not let anyone play with citizens living in the territory of Vojvodina and, because of their political promotion, promote some new nation, hiding behind statistics, behind science, behind some data that is fundamental to the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30994	Three minutes and twenty seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The title above Article 14 and Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30995	The Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment to Article 14 asking for the member to be deleted. This article shall describe the tasks of the advice. You heard the presentation, the excellent presentation of Master Martinovic, who described the importance of the advice. You're here saying that this council deals with strategic issues, but I'm asking you, ladies and gentlemen, should we once again form one body, as if not many of these agencies that you've formed for the past ten years? These are various committees, committees, not to list what you've formed, where you've tried to hire your political associates. Or, to create some kind of body and to give these laws some meaning... Unfortunately, you from year to year... You see, every day this congregation works, we make laws that we don't follow at all. It takes four or five laws to pass in this country, so we know what we've brought. In the end, I'm afraid, Madam Minister, that you don't even know what the laws are, at what speed and how these laws are passed. This law has come to the Committee on Science and Technological Development. We've been discussing him, but we haven't been able to discuss these amendments. Then you see the importance of these committees, which these committees are dealing with, and how you devalued the value of this congregation as the highest body. What should we talk about? The statistical law? To talk about this professional body, I think it's marginal. In fact, these people are the kind of laws you're enticing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30996	Thank you. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the title above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 17 and 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr Tomislav Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30997	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on official statistics. This is one of the very logical amendments, which is proposed to delete the title above Articles 17 and 17 relating to the financing of statistical councils from the proposal for a law on official statistics. The Serbian Radical Party believes not only that there is no fair reason for such a council, but that this is a great hypocrisy if we take into account the government's daily stories of reducing public spending based on the layoff of employees in the republican and local administration. On the one hand, people will be left out of work, unable to support their families, and on the other hand, individuals will be allowed to take money in addition to their earnings by being engaged in the statistical advice. They will not do so voluntarily, but with some compensation, which is said by Article 17 of this bill, which says: "The financial resources necessary for the work of the council are provided under the funds that are under the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for the work of the Institute. “ It is worth mentioning, and let the public of the Republic of Serbia remember, that the composition of the council is scheduled to appoint a government and that the majority will be made by employees or appointed persons in various ministries. If you accepted the SRS proposal presented through this amendment and did one right thing – you gave up the existence of a statistical advice, you could define yourself as one of the two useful options: one is to achieve the savings of certain funds, which you talk about so much, and the other is to allow the funds to be spent on better work of the Statistics Institute. If this bill is adopted as it is written, then I repeat, it is the inaccuracy of the government. Individuals will be given the opportunity to be rich at the expense of taxpayers, as they must have as much as they need, while they will be politically inadequate without their incomes so far. It is clear to all of us as a day behind the story of the rationalization of the state administration, in fact, the intention to conduct a political fight with non-insects. There's no talking about reducing public spending. I can conclude, if the government really had the intention of reducing public spending, these amendments by the Serbian Radical Party would be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30998	Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Miss Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u30999	On behalf of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 18, and I have proposed that the words "on a proposal from the competent committee" should be added in the post 2nd post-government. The authority of the promoter is very sensitive and must always be predicted on whose proposal something is officially adopted. The Bureau doesn't have that authority, but the competent assembly board has, with cooperation with all the institutions. Given that the plan contains a closer development of the programme adopted by the National Assembly, it is necessary that the previous committee should take its position and opinion, on the basis of which it will give its proposal to the Government, which would be more professional, with much more certainty in the correctness and necessity of the final decision on the adoption of the plan. In this way, you would also know who is responsible for any failures to plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31000	Members of the 30th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jorvanka Tabakovic and Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31001	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this article you can see another piece of evidence of what I was just saying, that the Republic Bureau of Statistics has been placed in a position that it cannot respect the basic principles that it should adhere to. I will read these principles: above all, the principle of impartiality, reliability, timelyness, professional independence, consistency. If we want to have a Republic Statistics Service that respects these principles and respects this law, then we have to abolish all discretionary rights when it comes to accessing data. It is impossible for the Republic Bureau of Statistics to perform its functions, to respect the law, if this approach is not enabled. In Article 30, you can see that even the government itself did not respect these principles that were given at the beginning of the text of the law, because the governor of the NBS was left discretionaryly entitled to grant consent that the Republic Bureau of Statistics has the right to access certain data, or it does not have the right to access that data. In the amendment to Article 30, we have regulated this in a completely different way – we have disabled the discretionary rights of the governor and obliged him to conclude an agreement, to regulate these issues by agreement between the NBS, on the one hand, and the Republic Bureau of Statistics. It is thus impossible for the governor to decide voluntarily whether the data is available, or not, to the Republic Bureau of Statistics. The point is quite clear: if we don't want to manipulate the data, if we want one official statistic that's out of political influence, you've had to accept this amendment that we've given to Article 30. The fact that you have not accepted that amendment speaks best of your intentions. The best talks about the difficulties through which the Serbian economy, the Serbian economy, will go through in the coming years, which will be reduced in some way in front of citizens with the "freezing" of data coming from the NBS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31002	The 36th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Christin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31003	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 36. The proposal for a law on official statistics, the title of which is: a decision on classifications and other official statistical standards. Article 36: "The Director of the Institute", pay attention, Mrs Dragutinović, "with the advice obtained... “ – I suggested that it be deleted for one reason only. It is deleted because the explanation I received says: “Amendment is not accepted because the advice on statistics as a professional advisory... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Why, then, in article 36, did you not write “the expert opinion of the council” instead of the word “with the addition”? I think that makes sense. Opinion can also be lay - I gave my opinion, I finished the story. It's now that director of the Bureau, like, some help. It's no help. It means: “The director of the Institute, with expert advice... ‘It is only then that this Article 36 can be right. I think that here, no matter what, you have to make one move, which is to make it easier for the director of the Bureau not to get any opinions, but to get the expert opinion of the statistical advice. That's the essence of my amendment. The explanation that you... In fact, you didn't even deliver, but you said it was the same as the reasons for the amendments under regular number 13. That's nice of you to say that statistics advice is a professional advisory body. Why, then, in Article 36, instead of “with the advice provided, ” should it not be: “with the expert opinion of the council”? I think this is more than logical and will bring security in this Article 36. Without this, I just got an opinion, I don't think you're doing anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31004	Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we from the Serbian Radical Party have tabled several amendments proposing that the amount of these penalties be reduced, approximately triple. We did this because we believe that in the conditions in which our society is located, especially in view of this economic crisis, these amounts are too high. One of the basic features of all these governments from 5 October 2000 to today, which are referred to as national, democratic governments, is that they are constantly tightening criminal policy, constantly increasing the amount of taxes and burdens that businesses and citizens have to pay to the state. This could even be accepted under the conditions of this crisis, but provided that such funds are rerouted, for example, to revive the economy, to start production, to social programmes, above all to help the poorest of the population. However, this does not seem sufficient. The resources allocated to reviving the economy are insufficient. I will only provide one piece of information: in the last year, according to official data, between 185,000 and 225,000 people remain unemployed in Serbia. This data seems even more devastating if the pre-election promises Boris Tadic and Mladjan Dinkic were made only 15 months ago, that in the event of their victory in Serbia, around 200,000 people will be employed over the next four years. As for social policy and separation for social purposes, I will only provide one piece of information: when this government began its mandate in Serbia, according to official data, there were 400,000 people living below the poverty line. According to current official data, the number has increased to 700,000. At the same time, you have a tendency to reduce the number of popular cuisines and reduce the resources allocated to the work of folk cuisines. I believe that this amendment and the next amendment, and the next amendment by Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, with the same theme, should be accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31006	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 52nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31007	Thank you very much. I have submitted an amendment to Article 54. Article 54 refers to criminal provisions. For the sake of the public, I would like to read that a member of 54th predicts himself -- a fine of 10,000 to 50,000 dinars -- will be fined for the violation of a natural person if they do not deliver for the purposes of official statistical research to the responsible official of the statistics requested by the data within the prescribed time limit. I have submitted an amendment to reduce these fines from 10,000 to 5,000 and reduce the fine from 50,000 to 25,000. As you might have noticed, I asked that half the sentence be reduced for the face. In the explanation I received, it is said that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for the amendments under regular number 21. Since you wrote in the same text, you should probably also write an explanation for my amendment, and for amendment 21, the argument is not to be accepted because these penalties have been laid down in accordance with the Law on Infringements. Therefore, I thank you on behalf of all natural persons, I wanted them to be reduced, but I think you, Madam Minister, could find some solution to reduce these penalties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31008	Thank you. To the title above article 55 and article 55, MP Radisa Ilic submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 15th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Census of dwellings, households and dwellings 2011. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs: Milorad Buha, Zoran Babić, Mićo Rogović, Zoran Antić, Saša Maksimović, Dusan Marić, Milorad Krstin, Dragan Stevanović, Vjerica Radeta, Zlata Đerić, Radojko Obradović, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Esad Juddjevic, Bajram Omeragić, Riza Halimi, Dobrislav Prelic and Srboljub Živanovic. You have received the government's opinion on the amendments submitted, with a correction of your opinion since 16 November 2009. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The word is Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31009	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 and asked for Article 3 to be added, which should read: "The list includes also a list of refugees and displaced persons, as well as a Serbian diaspora. “ By order of Article 2. The draft law is a vague formulation. The opinion of the Serbian Radical Party is that we do not have a specific category that would clearly, decidently point to the stated legal definition and determination from which the obligation of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia to write refugees, internally displaced persons and the Serbian diaspora would arise. The position of the Serbian Radical Party is that it is necessary to make this list, because it was not done in the 2002 census... We have not received adequate information regarding refugees and the Serbian diaspora. We passed the Diaspora Act a few days ago, where we found that we didn't have an adequate list, that we didn't have certain categories to figure out what diaspora is, and we don't have an orderly record. It was necessary to do so, and this is particularly important from the aspect of the refugee population, because, in the opinion of the High Commissioner for Refugees, we belong to five countries with a long-term refugee population. Which is the saddest, refugees, as a rule, lose refugee status, but do not return to the domicile country, or BiH, and is particularly present in Croatia, due to Croatian persecution, genocide, ethnic cleansing, censuses in Croatia, etc. The position of the Serbian Radical Party, related to the refugee list, is that we should not only execute a list of people who have been expelled, but also their property. No state body in the Republic has exactly recorded a list of Serbian assets. It is even more important to execute the list, along with the property, their property, social, acquired and all other rights they had in the Republic of Croatia and what the Croatian state took from us. Why does it matter? Because the proportion of genocide is so large, not just physically, because it was expelled between 500,000 and 800,000 Serbs. The value of this property, the property rights is huge. The Croatian state does nothing to restore the constitutional rights that we had until 1990, when a unilateral decision by the Croatian Parliament has deprived us of our right to citizenship. It was only a constitutional and legal condition for the withdrawal of all other rights, thus creating a presumption of genocide and ethnic cleansing. Huge differences are evident in property rights. No state body in the Republic of Serbia has complete and clear data. The obligation of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia is to carry out a list of natural persons and a list of the assets of the evasive population. What else does it matter? It's important that all changes are recorded on the list. In fact, we're in college with international law. The International Convention on Refugees does not treat population integration. A evasive face is a face that doesn't have a place to live. It has nothing but a place in the land of acceptance. Through the 1991 Refugees Act, we made it possible for refugees to integrate into domestic legislation, i.e. obtaining residence in the country of acceptance. That's what we did: when the refugee came here, he got his ID card; later, after three, four, five or ten years, he got Serbian citizenship and became a full-fledged Serbian citizen. But he's basically a refugee, because he didn't come back to the country where he was expelled from. Today, we have 97,000 refugees on the refugee commissioner's record. Will these lists really be recorded, will they be listed? No, I don't. These clauses of Article 2 of this Act show that they will not be listed. Look, they'll be listed... Based on what provision do you claim to be listed? Were they listed in 2002? All right, let me just finish. So what the SRS' position is, what the government of the Republika Srpska is asking for in persecution is to write down all refugees, regardless of when they acquired that status. According to official data we have, run by various authorities, we have so far had the largest number of refugees in 1998, when about 775,000 refugees were recorded. The number was rapidly shrinking in the period until 2000, when it came to 300,000. Then from year to year, that number was shrinking. According to the provisions of international law, in accordance with the provisions of the International Convention on Refugees, those persons who have not returned to the country from where they were expelled, the host country, must continue to be considered refugees. Regardless of the acquisition of citizenship, the exercise of the right to a personal map, the integration into the Republic of Serbia system, they continue to be treated as refugees. You must record them as refugees, because their real state and state of their property is in the country from which they were expelled – that is, the Republic of Croatia, that is, Bosnia and Herzegovina. What's even more important to me, we can now come up with data on who was a refugee, but we don't have any summed data on their property and property rights. That's what no state body has today. That's why I'm asking for it to be recorded. In the lists, you have to have special sections to process all the information concerning refugee property, their dispossessed rights. The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia must have all this. It is an individual, individual right, but generally looking, we have to have all that data to tomorrow... Given that the state's officials have said they will go with a countersuit against the Republic of Croatia, we must go with real data in the countersuit. If the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia don't have that data in a dubious, synthetic way, it means collectively, how are we going to go with this lawsuit? Which data will be used by us as a countersuit in the lawsuit we have to deliver by 22. 3. Next year, if no state body has any? What's more important from this aspect of the diaspora, we need to look at the number of faces in the diaspora and especially their property. Not just their property in a material sense, but their intellectual basis, which we're seriously counting on. Official state authorities today say we must exit with a programme of measures towards the diaspora, which will allow the diaspora to invest in the Republic of Serbia. If we don't have that data, if we don't have it registered, how are we going to let these people abroad invest their funds here?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31010	Seven minutes and thirty seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Mico Rogovic, Zoran Antić and Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31011	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the purpose of submitting this amendment to Article 4. The proposal for a census law is to distract the government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the entire Serbian public, in the position of children without parental ageing. Serbia's social protection institutions currently have about 1,400 children without parental ageing. Such a bill does not recognise the population of Serbia, which is highly existentially endangered. Who's gonna make a list of kids without parenting? Did the state give up those children? You had an elegant opportunity to accept the amendment of the Prosperity Group to Serbia - SNS and by law commit the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to carry out a list of children without parental ageing located in social protection institutions. The bill promoter did not take care of children without parental custody in foster families, since there are no items in the Personal Data section, in which a member of the foster family can report the child who is present with him. I don't even know if he'll have all the information on that kid. If you're treating children with so much care without parenting, why don't you at least speed up the adoption procedure? About 120 are adopted annually, and around 1,400 children are being adopted, which means that in this way and with this dynamic, it takes 12 years for all children without parental ageing to find their normal adulthood and maturity. This way, couples who decide to adopt face a long wait and a demanding bureaucratic procedure. I call on you to show more care for children without parental care, but also for married couples who want to adopt children, and to accept this amendment in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31012	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Mico Rogovic, Zoran Antic and Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31013	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have tabled an amendment to Article 5. Proposal for a Census Act, which defines household data the censusor needs to collect. In addition to the name of the village in which the household is registered, this amendment provides for a postal number. Why was it necessary for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to accept this amendment? Because in Serbia, and I talked about it in principle, there are a large number of settlements that have the same name, and are located in different parts of Serbia, such as Alexandrovac in Rasinski, Braničevski, Borski County, Guberjevac in Jablanič, Šumadijska and a series of such places located in different parts of Serbia. In this mass of collected data, the easiest and simplest sorting and recognition of populated places is by post. However, you have not accepted the amendment of the Progress Group, Serbia's SNS, and in your explanation, you stated: "Amendment is not accepted because the identification of the settlement code from the list building can be carried out in the electronic processing phase." Ladies and gentlemen, when you say "can be done" it doesn't have to mean it has to be done. The only thing that has to be done is what's defined by the law. Applying such a disabled census law, you will spend no less, and probably more than 31,000,000 euros (Citizens' money), and the collected data will not be an adequate reflection of the situation on the ground and will be very confusing and difficult to use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31014	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Mico Rogovic, Zoran Antić and Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31015	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, together with fellow Members of the Prosperity Group of the Serbian Progressive Party, I have tabled an amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a Census Act, which provides for erasing the word "type of apartment" and, therefore, not collecting data on the type of apartment on the ground itself during the course of the census. In this regard, Article 6 of this proposal defines the data on dwellings and other dwelling rooms. One of those data is the type of apartment. It would be all right if there were a clear classification of apartments in Serbia, but it does not exist. The only division, i.e. the classification of apartments that exist in Serbia: villas on Dedinj and Senjak, such as the one in which Governor Radovan Jelasic lives, issued by Minister Bozidar Djelic, apartments of type of penthaus, where the more modest ministers of the government of the Republic of Serbia or directors of public enterprises and all other apartments, live in which other Serbian citizens who do not have enough money even to turn those apartments. What type of apartment will the bill promoter place a 40-square apartment in which the average Serb four-member family lives? You refused the amendment, with a reason that the name of this mark was prescribed from international recommendations. I think the legislator should adapt those recommendations to the practical state in Serbia, not to be a common copyist, "resavac", as the children would say. Ladies and gentlemen, in Serbia, only ministers, governors, directors of major state and public enterprises live in apartments of this type, such as heritage villas, apartments, penthouses, while other Serbian citizens live in very modest houses and ordinary apartments. That is why I call on you to accept this amendment in the voting day and not to disrespect the citizens of Serbia further.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31016	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Mico Rogovic, Zoran Antic and Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31017	This is one of the key amendments to which my colleagues from the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS and I have tried to restrain you in the senseless spending of taxpayers' money, Serbian citizens. In Article 10. You have provided for a list of lists of at least five members. This is how you predicted minimum, but not maximum. Don't you think it's rude that at this time of the global economic crisis, which you don't have the answer to, or the defense of Serbian economy and economy, and when you call citizens to savings and minimums, only those minimums don't apply to you? What is the reason why you predicted that, according to this 2011 census law, you needed no less than 65,000 censusors and instructors, if you completed the 2002 census with 44,000 censusers? I wish our country was half bigger, that by 50% our population increased, and not like this, the state territory is the same, the number of inhabitants is reduced due to the state's lack of care and care, only you increase the number of censusors, and that's not less than 20,000 people, and by doing so, you're enormously increasing the census costs. You will likely also boast of the excellent results of our government, which will be additionally in debt and which will probably borrow a new loan for the 2011 census. Because how else are you going to finance the census and provide 31,000,000 euros, which you're going to "burn" because you predicted that the 2011 census would cost so much? What are the reasons why the 2002 census cost 800,000 dinars, i.e. at the time of the NBS not full of 28,000,000 German marks, while you predicted for the 2011 census, without revaluation, that you would spend more than 2,800,000 dinars, or more than 31,000,000 euros? Do you know how many schools, kindergartens, health homes, maternity homes can be made for 31,000,000 euros? And, uh, if you'd just made a little effort, you'd have predicted that there'd only be a census, not like this, in the most expensive way possible. This is how you throw yourselves at the money of the Serbian citizens, just to get your members and supporters into the largest number during the 15-day census and, of course, share their journals. That's why I'm asking you to accept this amendment, reduce the number of censusors, curb the costs and behave domestically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31018	Fifty-five seconds of time spent by the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Mico Rogovic, Zoran Antic and Sasa Maksimovic. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31019	Thank you. The amendments that my colleagues and I from the Progressive Group, Serbia - SNS, submitted to the article. 12 and 14. The 2011 census law has the same purpose, which is that it is the Ministry of Defence's obligation, i.e. the Ministry of Defence to carry out a list of members of these ministries that will be included in multinational forces at the time of the census. You rejected the amendments on the grounds that the amendment would not be accepted because data on the members of the Serbian Army, or members of the MUP, were collected during the census in the course of the country's census, i.e. from members of their households in the habitual residence. The task of the legislator is to refer, in my opinion, a bill that is clear and fully governed by the area for which it is intended. I don't think that's what a bill like this does, and I don't think that's why you refused the amendment. I'll only give you one option this bill doesn't recognize. For example, in the 2011 census, we will have members of the Serbian Army, i.e. the MUP, who in Serbia do not have a family, or live alone, and who will be part of the multinational force within the 15 days of the census. Who will execute the list of these citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Because of this bill, no one would have accepted the amendment of the Prosperity Group, Serbia's data on these persons would have provided the defence ministry's competent services, i.e. the MUP. That is why I urge you to reconsider and still accept this amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31020	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31021	Ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of citizens watching this transmission, I will read Article 14: "The Ministry of Interior, in co-operation with the Republic Bureau of Statistics, will carry out at the border crossings the distribution of auxiliary list forms to our citizens on temporary work and abroad during their entry into the country from 1 December 2010 to 20 January 2011. “ We from the Serbian Radical Party have submitted an amendment proposing that this deadline move from January 20th to March 20th. The government rejected this amendment with the following explanation: "Amendment is not accepted because, on the basis of experience from earlier lists, this period is considered the most favourable for the distribution of auxiliary list forms, since during Christmas and New Year's holidays, the highest frequency of arrivals in the country of our citizens on the working or staying abroad. This is also an optimal period from a financial point of view." Everything the government wrote in its explanation stands. However, this amendment, which we have submitted in no way changes the essence of this government's reasoning, we are merely proposing that this deadline be extended. We propose this because we believe that an additional period of time would ensure that we achieve the objective of the census, which is that we have the correct results. Simply, the state would have more time to inform citizens on temporary work abroad, to introduce them to the way the census will be done. So there is no reasonable reason for this amendment not to be accepted. I'll even accept the variant that it doesn't have to be until March 20th, but in any case, this deadline by January 20th is too short and I don't see why it won't be extended. For the same reason, it means, because of the accuracy of the data, I urge the government to accept the amendment to Milorad Buha, which refers to a special list of refugees and displaced populations. Simply, the number of refugees and displaced persons, especially from Republika Srpska's territory, from the territory of the Republic of Croatia and from Bosnia and Herzegovina, is one of the most important arguments Serbia has in discussions held within the international community on the position of the Serb people in those republics. This is particularly important for the suit Serbia is announcing against Croatia before the International Court of Justice. In this way, Serbia would best expose to the world's public another major delusion of the Croatian state, and it refers to the number of Serbs who returned to Croatia. For several years, the Croatian state has been operating with data on 100,000 - 120,000 Serbs who have reportedly returned to Croatia. However, the facts suggest that there are currently about 40,000 Serbs in Croatia who were exiled from Croatia in 1995. As they claim there are 120,000, we can claim that there are 40,000; they can claim that 100,000 Serbs were expelled from Croatia, we can claim 400,000 were expelled. In order for these data to be relevant, it is necessary to carry out a census of the population, and the best opportunity is just a regular census to be carried out in 2011.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31022	One minute and fifty seconds of time used by the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Mico Rogovic, Zoran Antic and Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31023	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Honored citizens of Serbia, Article 20. The draft law provides for the financing of the census and provides for the amounts to be provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2010, 2012, and 2013. The position of the Serbian Radical Party is that this list must be a comprehensive list, which will cover the census of the population, households, refugees, internally displaced persons, the list of agriculture (which you provided for by special legislation and special conditions of the census), as well as the list of diaspora. So I'm saying, this list should have been designed in a completely different way. That's why I went with the expropriation of this member. It is known that if a project like this is entered, funds must be provided. The funds are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget, but not individually. You've gone to two actual lists now, you haven't properly solved it, I'm convinced, nor has this action been designed, which I've also found in the amendment to Article 2, to specifically process refugees, their property rights and our diaspora. The position of the Serbian Radical Party is, again, to stress that it should be entered into the general list, which will cover everything we have come forward, because without it we have an empty list, a list that will not give us all the data we need, will not give us the right database for all state authorities. What you predicted by this law is only a partial solution, it's a routine list we've had so far. The best example is this 2002 list – the moment you came out with the official data, all the state authorities received that information and no one later opened it. So we don't have an adequate database that will serve all state authorities in their work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31024	Thirty seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Let's go, let's go, Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31025	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as my colleague Buha said earlier, members of the 20th and 21st laws are defined as the means to be spent in the implementation of the census, dynamics and way of providing them, i.e. in the 2010 budgets, 2011, 2012 to 2013. The amendment I submitted to this article did not want us to challenge the government's obligation to finance the implementation of the census; we just wanted to express a political stance. Does Serbia, in the light of the political circumstances in which it is located, need to access the list, that is, whether it is comprehensively provided, regardless of the economic situation in which we are located, this kind of money for the census, and whether Serbia will receive all the information and information that should be for itself and for its perspective to provide a single census? The position of the Serbian Radical Party is that we are at a political moment when our list definition should not define the positions and recommendations of the UN. After all, these United Nations are partly responsible for the fact that we will not determine authentic data and the actual picture of the situation in Serbia today. Why am I telling you this? You, after all, said that the next round of these lists should be around 2010, and that is not a binding position, nor a recommendation. There we had room to be both flexible and realistic about the political circumstances in which we are. You'll see now why the SRS insists on this. You see, here it explains: "The 2011 census results will determine the total number of residents, households and apartments in the Republic of Serbia. “ It would be nice for government representatives to tell us if we will have a clear picture in Serbia when it comes to AP Kosovo and Metohija. We are now not talking about the property of the state, in terms of public enterprises or some other companies that are in Kosovo and Metohija in a tavern beyond the knowledge and will of the Republic of Serbia. A few days ago, you could hear what was going on here, let's say, in the Char-mount, I apologize, in Bezovica, in the municipality of Strpce, and how indolent the state's relationship to the fact that so-called Kosovo institutions sell Serbian assets, and Serbia has a strategic interest, and in the context of the population that remains below and which should be the subject of this list, to react. Now we ask you, will spending this kind of money give you everything you say and what do you think the census should provide? Next you say – their schedule will be provided at lower territorial levels: administrative districts, municipalities, cities and settlements. The establishment of a rational list database will provide, beware, unlimited possibilities for quick and efficient processing of data on individual parts of each settlement, from the level of statistical and list circles, which will meet the needs of data users, be careful, from the area of population policy, spatial planning, the realization of general and regional urban projects. Our question is simple – we do not dispute that the state should finance the list – will the data that you will provide on the list allow all of what you state here? Of course not. He won't, for sure. You can talk, I agree. The question is, how are you going to do this in Peca and Prizren? What does the Constitution oblige us to do? It's easy to wave from there and talk – it will. The cameras are recording and we are now serious and responsible. We don't even challenge Eurostat, or NUTS 1, NUTS 2, all that's so-called. modern, European practice you call upon. But living in Serbia is something else. Defend and appeal to the Constitution; there is no Serbian official who does not say you will never recognise Kosovo's independence. We agree with that. But what is the practical state of the field? Are there real conditions for this to be implemented and carried out at this time? Now, you're still saying this will be a function of implementing the National Aging Strategy, a flat regional development. I ask you – is it also a small amount of spatial plans that have been adopted so far in Serbia defined and done by excluding the area and all the personalities that Kosovo and Metohija carry with them? Of course not. This list is part of the implementation of these strategies, and objectively, strategies are not applied in this area because we do not have political, or any other option for such a thing at this time. What is worst, this is the following sentence: "The results of the census are also significant because of the continuity and comparison with the results of the previous censuses," that is fine, but be careful now: "but also as an inheritance that we must provide to future generations on the basic demographic, economic, ethnic, educational, migration and other characteristics of the population of Serbia at the beginning of the second decade of the 21st century. “ Staff related to ethnic migration movements in Serbia are the political will of the international community, the greatest part of the EU and some other states, above all the United States. It is not the political will and attitude of Serbia, at least so publicly or declareably. Therefore, we believe that the money you have defined for this will be spent in vain. We don't think it's the political moment we're supposed to be dealing with this. It should work to create conditions for both Kosovo and Metohija, an inseparable part of the Republic of Serbia, to be implemented fully and adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31026	Five minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31027	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 22 refers to the financing of the census. Article 22 says the funds for the financing of transactions in the list set out in previous Articles 20 and 21 are foreseen on the basis of current prices from October 2008. In the second point: "The funds foreseen for individual years are valorised each year when the Republic budget is adopted for the following year, based on the consumer price index. “ In itself, such formulations would not be controversial, but it is questionable, which is why they are found in this 2011 Bill on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments. In the light of this amendment, which we asked to delete Article 22 of this proposal, we said that such a proposal cannot determine the amount of funds to fund the population census costs because the matter is regulated by the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, you of course did not accept this amendment and you said, you in the government, which is why the amendment is not accepted. You said the amendment was not accepted because the census, as the most massive statistical action, was governed by a special law, as well as by its funding. In all the censuses implemented after World War II, the funding of the census was regulated by the list laws, which are practices in other countries. This is certainly not an argument that you could convince us, Madam Minister, that it has a basis for this Article 22 to remain in the Proposal, that is, after voting in the population census law. And whether it's the most massive statistical action or less mass, when it comes to funding, there should be no reason whether it's regulated by this law or not. Of course, we know that certain funds are needed to implement the census and we know that these funds must be foreseen in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and for this very reason, we have insisted by amendment that this be the subject of the Budget Law, but unfortunately, you do not respect the Budget System Act. You showed this last year and this year, when budget rebalancing was passed, and here today, November 23rd, MPs in the National Assembly did not receive a draft budget for 2010, although under the Law on the Budgetary System, it was the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to deliver the proposal to us on November 1st, and the National Assembly has until December 15th to adopt the budget for the following year. According to the media, you mention some budget rebalance for 2009, you also talk about a new budget for 2010, and on November 23rd, contrary to the law, contrary to real opportunities, we do not have these proposals in parliament. This only speaks of the government's relationship to both the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia. In this article 22, you have also shown yourself that you don't care what it says in some other law, specifically in the Budget Law. You bring here and you propose regulations just to fill in, so you have some appropriate number of members in the law. You write everything and everything. Your laws are bad. Madam Minister, it would be good, since several fellow Members spoke about the delay in the budget, to tell us if you have any information when the Government of the Republic of Serbia will deliver the draft budget to the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31028	Two minutes and forty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was submitted by the MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31029	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Chairman, Honored Madam Ministers, in front of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 23(1) and Article 2 where I ask that the words "and the committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia" be added after the word "Government". First of all, in most of the laws that have passed through this Parliament, we have seen it slip through, I can't say on purpose, I even think it's very deliberate, the tendency for the Assembly to get as little involved in its work as possible, or that the Assembly can monitor the government as little as possible. I don't think that's good. It is good that citizens, who are the only owners of the Republic of Serbia's budget, can control the spending of all budget meetings through this body, to control the way the government treats citizens and its most important business, which is the budget schedule. We asked that this kind of responsibility be returned to the laws, implemented in laws, that the Assembly could at any moment control all those who spend the budget funds of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because that is the only way for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to have direct insight into their daily lives. The census, apartments and households is certainly very important. We need to create a concrete picture of what we are, what we own, how many we are, what our property is. He will not be valid at this time because he will not be implemented in the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia as the law requires; I fear that this law, and when implemented, will offer a false picture of Serbia, but we will still have to declare it. That's what we're going to do, and it's going to be the subject of some future, hopefully more people-to-people policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31030	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 24th amendment was also submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31031	Thank you. Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this is an extremely significant amendment. Since there are a huge number of participants in the census procedure itself, I have suggested that they compensate for all the activities related to the censuses by their decision regulate and define the government. The amendment is not accepted, and the argument is not accepted – the amendment is not accepted because the Republic Bureau of Statistics, in addition to the methodological methodological and organisational instruction, which lists numerous and complex list activities, for which certain monetary fees are carried out, and therefore we do not consider it necessary to establish compensations by special regulation and to involve the Government in this. If we just think of the examples we've come up with, who knows how many cases we don't know about, let's just remember the fees the Republic Election Commission had. The budget of the Republic Election Commission shall be determined by the National Assembly. The Republic Election Commission has its own rules and it turns out that the members of the RIK had compensations that were multiplely higher than the salaries of the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the MPs. We remember when the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has many agencies and public enterprises, and the Ministry of Finance, agree on plans of public enterprises and numerous agencies. There have been cases where the government, although approving the business plans of public enterprises and agencies, did not know at all what the salaries of board members, directors and other officials in those agencies were. Even though there was a huge pressure from the National Assembly and the public, even though you and the Prime Minister went out several times, there are agencies that didn't supply that data and you didn't have any instrument to access that data. Let's take the case of a law on temporary taxation of profits in the public sector that are, for example, above some. It's a temporary law, which you passed a year ago; now you say it has very little effect, about 1,200,000 savings. I don't know if you know that that law accidentally dropped the National Bank Council. The law has reduced the salary of governors almost three times, and members of the National Bank Council now have practically twice as much compensation for their temporary, occasional work as the governor of the National Bank. The fee is over 250,000. The governor has, I think, 169.000 dinars. Is it a little or a lot... We're talking about how the government came up with a proposal and it turns out that in some of the most important institutions, you don't have the basic information on how much compensation these are, and then you say, well, let's say, that's what the Republic Institute is going to do on its own. Now we have a million cases where the government interferes in everything and everything, and when we have a basic thing, one fee, which the government itself wouldn't handle, it would probably have to be in agreement and in agreement with the Bureau... After all, the director of the Institute sits next to you and I doubt that the law itself was written in the Ministry of Finance, probably a skeleton made by the Bureau of Statistics, proposed to the ministry, agreed on by the government, and then adopted. I guess it was some kind of normal procedure. I don't see that there's anything wrong with it, but you get involved in a lot of things where there's no room for government, and where you have to get involved, you say, "well, that's gonna work, so in a year, two days, when the list's over, we're gonna read in the paper how there were so many thousands of dinars, so many average salaries, or anything else." I absolutely don't see any reason why you don't accept the amendment and not start with the fiscal responsibility you're telling us about through your interviews.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31032	Two minutes used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Mico Rogovic, Zoran Antic and Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was submitted by the MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Esad Djudjevic, Bajram Omeragic and Riza Halimi. The government has accepted this amendment. Given that we do not have a report from the committees responsible, and on this amendment, as well as on others, the Assembly will declare itself in the voting day. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31033	Ladies and gentlemen, in line with the Serbian Radical Party's principle view that the amount of fines and taxes should be compared to the social state, the pay power of the economy and the population, we have suggested that the amount of penalties be reduced from 50,000 to 20,000, respectively, from 30,000 to 10,000. I will use the time of the SRS parliamentary group that I have at my disposal to say a few more words in general about the state of the population in Serbia. I remind myself once again of the fact that the parties that have ruled Serbia for the last nine years before 5 October 2000 in a series of promises made and that they have a demographic strategy that will, when they take over, ensure a general improvement in Serbia's situation, primarily reduce mortality and increase birth rate. I will provide some information which is the best indicator of the results that these parties have achieved. In 2008, 33,628 people died in Serbia more than they were born. This means that Serbia lost one city the size of Zaječar in last year. The comparisons for, in 1998, and you know that it was also a war year, the number of deaths in Serbia was 23,046 more than the number of born. Practically, the number of deaths relative to the number of births has increased by 45% in these nine years. In 1998, 99,376 people died in Serbia and 102,711 in the past year. In 1998, the newborns were 76,330, and last year 69,083, so seven thousand children were less. If we compare 2005 to 1990, we get information that the number of newborns decreased by 1/5, more than 20%, while the number of deaths increased by 24.9%. In Europe, only in Bulgaria and Hungary is mortality greater than in the Republic of Serbia. The average age of the population of Serbia is 41 years. We are therefore among the ten oldest nations in the world, and according to some professional criteria, we are in a stage of deep demographic age. The stage would have taken the situation of demographic disasters if no violent population migration occurred from 1991 to 2001, when an inflow of about 700,000 Serbs expelled from Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina took place. The average age of the population is 47 years in Književec, Svrljig, Gajino Han, Crno Trava. I don't think any comment is necessary on this information. Even in Belgrade, which houses two of the largest maternity homes in Serbia, more died than were born 2% last year. The number of older than 65 is greater than the number of younger than 15 years. This difference, all research shows, will grow steadily, to the detriment of young people. Last year, out of a total of 165 municipalities in Serbia, only eight municipalities were born more than dead. These municipalities are Zemun, Novi Sad, Bujanovac, Vranje, Preshevo, Sjenica etc. Of these seven municipalities, in five natural growths was extremely low. Only in Presevo, Novi Pazar and Tutina's growth, the birth rate of the population compared to mortality was at some satisfactory level. No child was born in 1,346 settlements in Serbia last year. The next thing we need to worry about is the fact that we have 25,000 abandoned houses in Vojvodina. Next, according to the last census in 1981, 9.9% of Serbia's population accounted for children under the age of seven. According to the 2002 census, the figure decreased by almost a third and is 6.6%. Only every fourth Serbian population is younger than 19 years old. The comparisons, with no evil intention whatsoever, point out that 54% of the population of Kosovo and Metohija are under 19 years old. What is further worrying is the fact that the ageing process in Serbia affects women more than the male population. Specially noticeable is the decline in the number of women in the best life and biological age, the age of birth, between 24 and 35 years. As a logical consequence of a general state of society, of a common moral sunflower, we also have the fact that in Serbia there are fewer marriages and more divorces. In 1998 there were 18 divorces on the table of marriages, and last year there were as many as 22 divorces on the table. We are close to the border when every fourth marriage in Serbia will end in divorce. Sadly, marriages that survive are born with fewer children. Every marriage in Serbia, statistically speaking, comes 0.88% of children. Practically, we don't have any children born in one marriage in Serbia. As a consequence of the general situation in society, we have the fact that several tens of thousands of abortions are performed each year in Serbia. Officially, 19.000 abortions were conducted last year, and estimates say the number of abortions carried out in private clinics is at least twice as high. If you add to this the abortions that have been carried out for health reasons, the abortions done somewhere in the wild, you get at least 60,000 Serbs and other Serbian citizens who were killed before birth. In comparison, 45,000 people died in wars that were waged from 1991 to 1999, according to rough data; therefore, 15,000 fewer than were killed in just one year by abortions. This dreary demographic picture also completes data on the number of Serbs and Serbians who end their lives in violent death. Only last year in traffic and other accidents, suicides, etc. 3,692 Serbian citizens died; out of that, 1,500 people committed suicide in Serbia last year. This means that every day, in car accidents in Serbia, three people are killed, and four people are killed. The demographic policy of ruling parties in Serbia is also seen in relation to pregnant women and children. I draw attention to one piece of information that we talked a lot about during the debate on budget and budget rebalancing, which is that budgets for pregnant women and children are constantly being reduced. Also, we have one phenomenon that has been said here several times, that today in Serbia, it is impossible for a pregnant woman to find a job, to find permanent employment. They even appeared in newspapers data and ads, confessions from pregnant women, confessions from young girls and women who were conditioned to sign a written statement that in case they got a job in the next three or five years they wouldn't have a baby. If natural growth remains at this level and there is no major migration wave towards Serbia, and I hope it will not come to it because it can unfortunately only come from Montenegro and Republika Srpska, in 40 years, the number of Serbians will decrease by 1.500,000, which is more than one fifth. Serbs are the only people on the Balkan Peninsula, this is official statistics, which today is a small number than at the beginning of the 20th century! German geographer Alojz Fisher has done one analysis of the number of Balkan peoples over the past hundred years and you have the following data: Turkish people have increased by 400%, Albanian by 700%, Romanian by 45%, Bulgarian by 38%, Greek by 35%, etc., only Serbs are getting smaller. Unfortunately, the situation will deteriorate dramatically. This will especially contribute to Serbia's EU accession. This is why – because I suppose tens of thousands and possibly hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens, especially young and educated people, seduced by stories of a better life, will take advantage of the opportunity to travel without visas and passports and permanently leave Serbia. We have two information that points to the justification of my concern. He says -- after joining the EU, Bulgaria lost almost a million residents, while Romania left three million people. Most of them, of course, went temporarily, as you already know, our people are going abroad, they say – I'm going to go for a few years to earn for myself and for the children, and they all stay there permanently. I'm going to suggest one more time, I'm going to give some ideas, I'm going to make some suggestions about what the state could do to improve this dramatic demographic state, to stop this devastating and devastating trend. First, to establish a state-owned fund to restore the population, which would set out a certain percentage of the financial transactions that are being executed in Serbia's territory. Then, that the age limit for the retirement of the first child is reduced by one year, for the second child for two years, for the third child for three years, for the fourth child for five years. Then, that women born to five children are given a national pension of one average salary in Serbia and that these women who have five children and have no settled housing issue are assigned an apartment. Next, to buy out young couples and share free abandoned rural properties, provided they make a commitment that if they are biologically capable, they will have two or three children. I repeat this information on 25,000 abandoned houses in Vojvodina and at least about 40,000 abandoned houses in other parts of Serbia. Then, to pass a stimulating law on the employment of pregnant women, which would allow all pregnant women who are not in permanent work, who do not have a permanent job, who want to be employed, to get a job. Next, the maternity leave for the first child should be extended from three months (it is a shame for the maternity family to have only three months of sick leave, three months of absence), to extend it from three months to 12 months, for the second child to 18 months, for the third child to 24 months. I know it's hard, that it's a great force on the villa, a great burden on the state budget, but here we choose between the state budget and the survival of the nation. The following is to tighten the conditions under which pregnant women can have abortions, to increase the allocations for health care, education and education of children and to bring in a truly quality, comprehensive state programme for free treatment of infertility. Just in case these and similar measures are adopted, we will be able to welcome the next censuses, 2011, 2021, 2031, more calm than we are now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31034	Fourteen minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Mico Rogovic, Zoran Antic and Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31035	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia-SNS, I have tabled an amendment to Article 30. Proposal for a Census Law in 2011. This amendment provides for the separation of the responsibilities of the persons to be listed, i.e. the subject of the list, in the event that they provide the wrong information or do not provide at all information, which can only be committed by one of the censusors, i.e. those who make the list, who may, in almost unlimited cases, enter incomplete or incorrect data. This separation of responsibilities can only be done by criminal measures. However, you did not accept such a solution, as you do not accept that you are responsible for all the bad things you do. How else will the mayor of Belgrade, Mr Dragan Djilas, who, in the presence of dozens of witnesses, threatened both telephone and personal, even by arresting Miodrag Bati Milanovic, the owner of the company "Shumadi Put" and Zoran Zivanovic, the President of the Council of the Meat Community of Ripanj, just because they wanted to fully pave the way for 13 travel directions in Ripanja and thus solve one of the fundamental problems of the citizens of Ripanja and Belgrade? Of course, if it doesn't go through the Democratic Party, then people are threatened to lose their jobs and even get arrested. Is the mayor's position to be usurped because of the election campaign going to suit Dragan Gilas? Who will be responsible for the SMS messages you send to citizens of some local communities of the township of Voždovac, the following content – Dear neighbours, all information related to the signing and downloading of already signed water contracts can be obtained in the rooms of the Democratic Party, the Street of Avalski Put No. 38, between 12:00 and 6:00 p.m., the phone and that, your Democratic Party. Whose? The citizens you're blackmailing. Who will answer because you usurped the right of citizens to get a connection to the water network in the pre-election campaign and to sign and download contracts instead of in the local community in the premises of the Democratic Party? Who gives you the right to play with the basic rights of citizens? Who, and how, will respond because you use water connections in a pre-election campaign, and what, on the other hand, threaten citizens who want to invest their money in order to enable their neighbours and fellow citizens to improve their quality of life? Show responsibility and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31036	Thirty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31037	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment to Article 30 which speaks of penalties relating to the censusors. I ask you whether the penalty provided for here, from 20,000 to 50,000, for a censusor who, as you write in this article, is timely and in a proper manner not performing the tasks laid down in Article 25 and, under two, contrary to the will of the person covered by the list, requires that this person be declared to be a national member... Ladies and gentlemen, in an adequate way, it is necessary to regulate the relationship between one who takes data (the data recorder) and the data provider, i.e. to focus the task towards harmonisation of data, i.e. create conditions for a harmonious transformation. How do you do that? This is achieved by adequate paperwork. It's not the censuser's fault if the one who gives the data doesn't tell the truth. In fact, what's true is paperwork, which is catastra papers, about the part that's important that it can make a list about agriculture, or the census, about family members. This is how you (with these 50,000 dinars) punish those martyrs you paid with these three billion dinars. You want to take their money back right now, and many of them may first base, in this way, working relationship. It's probably funny to you, but it's not funny, because if you look at how young Serbia doesn't work today, over a million are unemployed... Did you talk about abuses at the Privatisation Agency? Did you talk about abuses on the Administrative Board and how you talked about abuses in the construction, travel, legal mafia? Did you talk about abuses in the ministries, did you talk about abuses in local self-government? Did you punish those people? You did not punish them, but you will punish these martyrs who will go to work for you. When we discussed this law on the Committee on Science and Technological Development, I personally advocated that this task was carried out by officials of local offices, because they know exactly every household, every member, and it's normal for this kind of money to be provided by the state... It was necessary to reward these people. They'd probably do it the most impoverished way, but not as you predict. The easiest thing to do is to punish someone who's hungry, thirsty. You don't punish those who have robbed this country all these ten years. You take money from the IMF, so you can pay for everything, and you give it to those who abuse that money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31038	The time used by the parliamentary group is two minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Mico Rogovic, Zoran Antic and Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the closing statement, as referred to in Article 144? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31039	Very short. I would like to thank everyone for the fair discussion, but also to remind everyone that this was still a law on the census, households and settlements, and that his role is not to affect birth or, God forbid, dying, divorce and marriage. Maybe it can be done by some other laws, but certainly not by the law of the list. Who do we actually list and are they all subject to the list? So, all of them... including the refugee population living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for more than a year. Of course, children are listed without parental ageing. Classifications are simple definitions. They're standards. Maybe someone doesn't like the classification of types of settlements or types of apartments, and there are seven, but that's just the way it is. I don't think we should be original when it comes to classifications. Also, there isn't just a census anywhere, so it can't exist in Serbia either. As for the number of censusors, and there are standards—about one censusor at 70 - 120 households. There's not a lot more censusors than there is to be, but exactly as much as it needs to be. Asking if you need a list, I think the answer is yes. Is this the right time? It's a common year when all the countries of the world make their lists. It may not be the right time, but I would like to add one question to you – you suggest which moment would be better. Anyway, thank you all once again for the instructive and constructive debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31040	I am concluding a review of the 2011 Bill on List of Populations, Households and Apartments, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 16th item of the agenda – Proposal FOR A POLJOPRIVREDE LAW 2011. You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Milorad Krstin, Dobrislav Prelic, Zoran Antić, Otto Kišmarton, Ljiljana Miladinović, Vitomir Plužarević, Vlad Milojković, Srboljub Zivanovic, Zlata Djerić, Dragan Zivkov, Zoran Popović, Dusan Marić and Zoran Babić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31041	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the 2011 Agricultural List Act, I submitted an amendment to Article 1. It reads: "Article 1 paragraph 2 is amended and the list is implemented from 1 to 15 April 2011, as the bill states that the agricultural list is to be implemented from 1 to 15 November 2011. Why am I saying this, distinguished citizens of Serbia? I speak for the simple reason that we in the Serbian Radical Party believe that the census of the population and households could have been completed together with the list of agriculture. In the same year, two lists, with one going, as requested in the amendment, from 1 April to 15 April 2011; the other going from 1 to 15 November 2011. It's huge money, and you know it well, that only for the list of agriculture goes about a billion, a billion and a half dinars. Your explanation, as far as my amendment is concerned, is perfectly formulated. It's just a formula. That's not good because you're refusing this amendment. I have to read this because of the citizens of Serbia, because it's quite comprehensive, and that's the part I'm arguing about and why I submitted the amendment. Says the government’s argument: “Amendment is not accepted because the experience of some countries has shown that at the same time the implementation of the census and the list of farms has a major impact on the reduction of the quality of data obtained in the census and there is no savings in the funds for the implementation of the census. “ It is impossible to save. If they're together, there's savings, except the weather would take a little longer, as far as the censusor and the conversation with the owner of that household is concerned. And as you can explain, there's about 800,000 of them, although there's fewer, there's a lot less. "World Programme Recommendations", watch out, the world programme, "for the list of agriculture recommend to ensure the link between these lists, but not to be implemented at the same time. “ You know, it’s a recommendation. You didn't have to accept. "The census covers more than two and a half million households, and the agricultural list covers about 800,000... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” There's no 800,000, there's less. There's no 800,000, gentlemen, no. I said there are between 4,800 and 5,000 villages in Serbia, of which we disappear annually, minors, by a hundred villages. I'm talking specifically about that part of Serbia where it's one, two nursing households, and the rest are ruined. Houses and households are rooted. "The 2011 census will include about 50,000 censuses trained for the action, while around 15,000 censusers will be included in the list of agriculture. “ Now we have come to what is needed to be answered. Namely, I'm interested in how these poor 15,000 censusors are going to be carried out when they get into agricultural land? You know exactly how you've been destroying this farm for nine years. Nine years. I don't know if he'll make it through the tenth. Now you have seen that, however, the Serbian patron has started to think a little bit (when I say the pair, I mean the cattlemen, fruit trees, etc.). and all that makes agriculture), so instead of 570,000 acres under the wheat, you will now have 250,000 hectares. I don't know if you'll have enough, that 1,800,000 tons of wheat, as harvested in 2009, to transfer it to 2010, so maybe you'll have something left for 2011, and it won't stay, since it's going to be the same breed as it was this year, maybe even worse. The individual agricultural producer can no longer invest the most fundamentally per hectare of arable area. It's not for fertilizer. Why isn't there? Because you didn't pay for it. You didn't pay for it. The wheat hasn't been paid yet. It's been said to be paid in 60 days, this is the November moon, and that's the end of November. I know that you, Minister, are angry, but I'm telling you, how will 15,000 censusors come across the accuracy of the data when they list agricultural holdings? Do you think that poor farmer is going to take out the data they're looking for, tell him by heart, and know, that nursing home they're classing him, where he's on a catastrian morning or a hectare? What is its age tractor, they will say – 30 years; which is a combination – 30 years; connected machine – 25 years. That's what you'll come across. He will come, when he asks, which you have a building, he will say, "Well, I have two farms abandoned, they are no longer mine. They're not his because they're failing. They're falling apart. I think you're making a mistake after a mistake, what you want to do, especially when you're not uniting a list of people and apartments with a list of farms. I've only given one obvious diameter which is why your innocent censusors are going to run into a bad reception at registered agricultural holdings. Simply and clearly, it is known why – because of the disastrous situation in agriculture, in the Serbian agrarian. What were your prices last year – for the cattle barley 14.5 dinars, and this year 8 dinars; sunflower 24, is now paid for 14.70. They haven't started the difference yet... Some, however, began to pay the difference for two more dinars and ten more, which is 16.80 dinars. What's 16 dinars and 80 pairs to 24 dinars? Seven dinars and 20 pairs less per kilogram. What about wheat? One year we have 24 dinars, then we have 9.5 dinars, and on the stock market there are 8.5 dinars. It's been a long time for 60 days. It hasn't paid off anywhere. They don't pay off tycoons and financial powers. You irritate farmers, and you will have to carry out that list in 2011 from November 1st to 15th. You should know that from November 1st to November 15th, many will not be found in their household because they are in the field. Do you know that only 30% of the surface is plowed? He can't sit at home. He can't sit at home because he feels responsible for the state, and you don't feel responsible for them. You don't feel any responsibility. You feel responsible for three or four people holding oil, setting prices; you say, the government is not able to get in their way, and we're bringing the Competition Act here. Who did we bring it for? Because of Todorovic (Uljar Zrenjanin), because of Peconia (Vrbas), because of the "Vitoria of the Group", because of Stanko Popovic and the wife of Zoran Djindjic? Is it because of them? Is that why you're bringing it? Have you made a decision on the regressed, i.e. Subsidized fertilizer, 10,000 dinars per tonne? A hundred thousand tons times 10,000 dinars, that's a billion dinars; it's given the Victoria Group, which produces this fertilizer, the Fertil factory. Who owns it? Who owns it? Ponovic, owner of Stanko Popovic, a member of the Democratic Party, and, normally, the wife of the late Zoran Djindjic. Workers of Zorke, owned by Stanko Popovic from "The Victoria Group", began strike a few days ago. Who did you subsidize? To make evil bigger, that fertilizer is more expensive 7,000 dinars per tonne than imported Russian, which is 3 times 16, not like ours - 3 times 15. So 16 times 16 times 16, NPK, nitrogen phosphorus potassium. Stronger and cheaper. This "Fertilovo", Stanka Popovica, "The Victoria of the Group" and Mrs. Djindjic, started with 3,250, regressed, and 3,300, and 3,500, and imported from Russia from 2,700 dinars for 100kg to 3,000. Or, if you're going to take a ton, a 35,000 Victoria Group...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31042	People's MP, I ask you to return to the subject of the agenda. You've been talking for ten minutes without bringing this into contact with the content of your amendment, which says that the list is being conducted from 1 April to 15 April 2011.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31043	Please...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31044	People's MP, you're under obligation to listen to the instructions, if the chairman assesses that there is a threat of breach of the Rules of Procedure in any provision, so I ask you to listen and not throw it away. So article 103 obliges you to talk about the agenda. I've been listening very carefully to you for ten minutes. Please don't throw it away. National MP Dragan Todorovic throws it away. I warn you not to violate the Rules of Procedure in any of his provisions. So, MP, the two minutes you have available for the amendment and eight minutes from the parliamentary group you use and you violate Article 103. I am listening to you and I am waiting for you to link the content of your speech to the content of your amendment relating to the law on the list of agricultural households, and I repeat, the content of your amendment to be implemented in the period from 1 April to 15 April 2011. Either respect article 103 or leave me no alternative but to apply what I'm required to by article 100. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31045	Madam Chairman, with all due respect, I'm talking about the 2011 agricultural list and I'm talking about how it's possible that 15,000 censusors come across individually in registered agricultural holdings, how those who are saddened will behave, brought to ruin, and it's about the Serbian peasant...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31046	National MP, you are now violating the second member of the Rules of Procedure. You cannot know how someone will feel and behave, whether April, November 2011, please approach the debate and the interpretation of your amendment or listen to my second warning and return to respecting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31047	Dear citizens of Serbia, despite what I wanted with my amendment to point out to the ministry, which made this decision to keep a separate census on the population and housing and agriculture, I do not seem to have the right to talk about the state and the state of the one with whom the censusors will go. They're not few, they're 15,000. By pointing out the situation in agriculture, I wanted to say that they would most likely encounter a poor reception in these registered agricultural holdings. I've cited the facts, and I want someone in this room to disprove me. Is it true everything I said, you can check it out, as I checked it out. I'm not demeaning this law either, I'm not demeaning anyone, I just want to make some facts about individual agricultural land or family agricultural land, where the censusors will go. That's the essence of my amendment. In order to explain one amendment, I am using Parliament time to point out the broader meaning of my amendment, and nothing more. If someone insults the fact where the money went, and where else it will go, while I'm in this bench, believe me, I'll bring it up, whether you warn me or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31048	A total of nine minutes and forty-five seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31049	I appeal to Article 202 concerning parliamentary questions and answers to parliamentary questions. I received an answer a few moments ago to my asked parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31050	People's MP, Article 202 cannot be broken into the part of the session that you and I are taking part in, and so do you and I. I ask you not to abuse the right given to you under Rule 100 to get your word across the line and as soon as you ask for it, speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Rade Obradovic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31051	Thank you, Madam Vice President. (President: I pray for order in the O.R. so that I would not have to accomplish Article 27 in a different way in full application. Here you go, MP, keep going. I thank you again. Everything we had on this law, we said in a principle debate. I will now use the time of our parliamentary group and we from the DSS will no longer report for this law. We have no doubt that the list of agricultural holdings will be completed within the specified deadline. What we're worried about and what we're pointing to is how we're going to use the data that we get on that list. This government points out agriculture as one of its priorities; in the process of approaching EU agriculture, we see it as our chance, and when we look at the government's relationship in concrete examples and how from the aspect of the budget in relation to agriculture it looks, there is a completely different story. If there's a good thing about breaking the Budgetary System Act again, it's that you're sitting here right now and we can still react to the 2010 draft budget. I would just remind you that in 2007, when the total budget was about six hundred billion, the agricultural budget was 26.095,751,714, from the Budget Law, and the total expenditure of the budget was 595,000.000,000. The budget, which is now in place, total expenditures are higher than seven hundred billion, and the agriculture budget is 18,585,000. So much for your relationship with agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31052	Two minutes from the time of the authorised representative, or the parliamentary group? An authorised representative. Thank you. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31053	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I appeal to Article 27, where it is said that the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is the old President of the Assembly, i.e. the chairman. I would ask you, since I have called on Article 202, I will accept every suggestion of yours, to explain to me which way I can use Article 202 so as not to abuse the Assembly in any way, that I do not question order in the congregation. As far as I could read here, it's very precise and clear, so I thought I'd absolutely have the right to come forward to comment on the answer, because I got it right before I got into the O.R. I'd like you to give me an explanation of how I can use Article 202.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31054	There's no damage to article 27. You cannot use Article 202 during this session, Article 202 refers to the comment on the question raised. When there is a session at which you have a parliamentary question, then you will use Article 202. Please don't throw it away. National MP Dragan Todorovic throws the second time during the session. I warn you not to violate the Rules of Procedure and provisions that, seeking a word by article 100, ask us all to respect. If you do not know how to apply Article 202, you have three options: the first option is to contact the Secretary of the National Assembly for Technical Instructions; the second option... Please do not throw "where it says". Or don't ask for an explanation. He can't do both. So you can't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and ask for explanations and then break the Rules of Procedure while I give the explanations. Make up your mind – either you will not ask for explanations or we will listen to explanations together, I am trying to give you the right, and you, by respecting the Rules of Procedure and listening to what I am trying to give in response, making sure, on the basis of Article 27, that all MPs have equal rights, which they can use. So, you can consult with the Secretary of Parliament, you can contact the President of the Assembly and you can contact the Administrative Committee. You can contact the Legislative Committee as the Administrative Board deals with the rights of Members; it deals, otherwise, with the violation of the Rules of Procedure. The Legislative Committee shall interpret all acts, it shall also be addressed by the Constitutional Committee in the case of an individual constitutional appeal, in the case of an act for which the Assembly is responsible. These are four places where you can get information on where, how and how to use Article 202. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31055	I'm referring to Article 104. Mrs. Komic, with all due respect, you insult the elemental intelligence. You're telling me something that I didn't ask at all and you're talking about something that wasn't the subject of my request at all. I did not say that Article 27 had been broken, but I stated point 3 point 1) where it is said that the chairman of the Committee on the Application of Rules of Procedure. At best, in order not to get into this situation, I simply asked you to tell me, not to tell me how you imagine and what you think we should do, but to say – it says in the Rules of Procedure, says here, here and here. All the things you've listed here, normally, I'll take a stenogram and I'll try... And I'm sure it's not in the Rules of Procedure. One more, Mrs. Komic: We have asked the Administrative Committee several times, and until today we have not received an answer. Let's say we asked a question when, if you remember, it could ask for a way to vote in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If you remember, once, when I wanted to ask the MPs to make a public statement on the Information Act, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, that right was not given to me. Therefore, Mrs Comic, I have the impression, firstly, that you are insulting elemental dignity, both mine and the Assembly; secondly, in accordance with current practice, there are MPs of first and second order here. When it comes to Serbian Radical Party MPs, I seriously question our rights, because you do not allow us to operate in the Republika Srpska Assembly on the basis of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31056	Two minutes. Thank you. People's MP, you can't get your word if you don't think a member's been broken. Your requests on many occasions, therefore, three times, by seeing the stenogram you can see that I listen carefully, represent abuse of rights and violation of order at the National Assembly session. I give you a second warning about this, given that during this session, by breaking the Rules of Procedure together with me, you were forced to give you my first warning, now and again. Anyone else want to talk about an amendment to Article 1? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? In the debate on the details of the amendment to article 2 there is a National MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31057	I wanted to report for Mr. Krstin's amendment, because I listened very carefully to his explanation. I'm really surprised the amendment wasn't accepted, at least after the explanation he made. What is not good, Madam Minister, is that you disobey the advice or recommendation of what comes from the life of Serbia. First of all, the list of agriculture and the agricultural population does not need to be discriminated against again by the list in relation to the other population. This advises us primarily life and practice in Serbia. The agricultural population was discriminated against in communist times and we remember it well, at least we who were lucky to live at that time – farmers had health books of other colors compared to all others. They and the members of their households had green books, compared to everyone else - red. That's how everyone knew who they shouldn't give priority to. It has just been pointed out here, very argumentative, that this amendment should have been accepted. So, not the recommendations that come from the world, but the recommendations that come from Serbia and life. Do not make this law another discrimination against the agricultural population in Serbia. At least make them feel equal. They are irregular in many segments, damaged and robbed in all fields, so at least let them be equal here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31058	A minute and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Antić, Otto Kišmarton and Ljiljana Miladanovic jointly submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31059	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 2(4) of the word "after the list" is replaced by the words "at the same time as the list". A separate implementation of the census and agriculture is an unnecessary and cost-effective move by the Serbian government. The last list was organised in 1960. You have now, in 2009, referred to the Assembly a law that is neither rational nor thrifty, and time points to that. We suggest that the population and agriculture be written about one cost, and that cost is 1.5 billion dinars, and you now want this game to make the people pay twice. It is for you: when he enters the city, I think of the farmer, and when he comes out of the city, he must pay, and he has actually brought you bread and bread. Understand yourself and help those people who still work in Serbia today - out of habits, out of necessity and personal satisfaction. You focus that money on their standard, not on paying an instruction 300,000, and then 300,000 thousand again. That's actually your goal, to get someone off that pile. Why didn't you focus that money on the subsidies you promised that farm of ours? There'll be big problems with that list when you're done. Then someone from Europe will command when and where to plant plums, vines, where and which cattle will be able to grow. It's a guide to European snail farms or Noah farms, and so on. Why didn't you focus that money on the agricultural machinery when it was known to be old and that the tractors were 25 years old and the combines were as old as that? With this policy of yours, you're only doing damage to the agrarian. You did not fight with the IMF to make the agrarian budget 6%, 7%, 10% of Serbia's budget, because the invested dinar returns three times as much to Serbia and to all. Agricultural prices are minor every year. Do you know since it was apples and cherry this year? Did you know that livestock was ruined? Only Werem produced one million passengers a year, and there was a whole line, from field to table. You've ruined it all. You make wrong concessions to certain tycoons. It's about mineral fertilizer, which affects the major substance in warfare. People are always afraid of those censuses; they generally think that if there are more plums and kalem, they will have to pay a bigger tax. If the picture was different, the list would be easier, faster, and more honest. Whom the serpents have eaten, the lizard is afraid of. That's how our peasant thinks about this list today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31060	A minute and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31061	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, honourable Members of Parliament, I would just like to join these amendments, which are extremely clever suggestions for one law to be corrected as far as possible. However, I can see that you are a smooth reluctance and that none of you accept it. If people who have been dealing with this business for years, who have grown up in certain environments, who have big problems today in agriculture, suggest something, know that it's something that life means to peasants in certain areas. It is true that it is abnormal to explain that there will be a special list for agriculture, outside these lists that will go. Who is it that will spend so much money, go around several times and make numerous lists across Serbia, and then make a special list? I can't figure out if you gentlemen from the ruling coalition have been following for the last two years, since you've been in power, Serbian village and Serbian agriculture? Do you realize that the situation is harder than ever? Do you realize that in this year's most natural in the last 20 years, we have total chaos in ransom, in prices, in everything? I think in 2011, when you're planning this list, you'll have nothing more to list. This morning on RTS, on the First Program, there was a show about a village in the municipality of Prepolje; an example was that 35 people were in the family several years ago, and today only two old people living in the village. It was one of the reports that tells you everything. It's a picture of a Serb village. The host they visited once had three hundred sheep, ten horses and twenty cattle, and today there is not one sheep, there is one horse and seven cattle. It's proof that the Serb village is collapsing. If this trend continues and the various groups that are now emerging... Here we have heard of one; and some of our ladies, who were once ladies, went into the big business and trade in artificial fertilizers; in order to make the price better "shrinked" etc., the women of high-ranking state officials, relatives, joined the store. It's simple, they've all done a little bit, and the farmer's naked and barefoot, with nothing at all. You won't have anything to write down in 2011. Do you believe, with a price of milk of 15-16 dinars in ransom, there will be no more cows left, Madam Minister? Do you believe, in one village that had (was once invested from government funds) eight cargo yards, with over a hundred bulls, today there is no bull of a customer, there is nothing? Why? You import meat, you approve. Serbia has become an avalanche, as I often say. This is where the meat is imported from Brazil, chicken. All the farms are empty and empty. There's nothing to write down. Do you think a peasant can survive at the price of an apple of three dinars, what is it today, and no one will ever do it again? No processor works in Serbia. You can't solve "Serbianka" for years; PIK "Suchovo" completely separated from agriculture, commercialized and went into another sphere. So, what's this all about? All those agricultural good people were buying and preparing them for reselling. There's no production. There's no population in the villages. The Serbian village is dying. Here, you heard, once twenty-six billion invested, and now 18 billion, so eight billion less than a year ago, two years ago. You cut the budget drastically, as far as agriculture is concerned, and you fuck him more and more and you import more and more. This unilateral agreement with the EU, which you have applied, has completely destroyed the Serb village during the two agricultural seasons. We of the opposition said it would destroy the village, destroy the Serbian economy. That's what happened. Now, how do you not know how to organize? Tomorrow, when you transfer jurisdiction, you will have a minister of agriculture, an incompetent minister, who doesn't know an apple of three dinars to lead to a buyer, to that hungry citizen, because he simply doesn't understand it, he doesn't know it. He will be the minister to us tomorrow in Serbia, and he will transfer competences in Vojvodina to the second minister from Vojvodina, and he will make us a hat in Serbia, to destroy the Serb village, as he has done so far. He will destroy the forest villages, south of Serbia. Is it possible for us to talk about agriculture? Do you know, Madam Minister, that "The Land" Wolf has 600 acres under the seedlings, the highest quality in the country? No apples, no pears, no fruit! Everything rots, everything falls into the weeds. Why? How does Serbia survive? We're a country of agriculture. Take what out? Do you know how many times this year, in our oldest year, we have tons of dried plums to take out? We almost don't, or anything minor. It's all gone, everything's gone, everything's gone. Why? Because the government didn't know they were organizing. You put some boys in the farm over there. I don't think they've seen any of the looks of any of the heat, or what production looks like, or what it looks like. Every morning they take pictures on TV and tell us how to do it. Where do they come from and what do they do there? What are their results? The price of agricultural products in Serbia has dropped so dramatically, and the people are starving, over 700,000 people are starving. How can Serbia starve in this age? How can Serbia starve with prices that are exaggerating for the peasants? It's a total disorganization. Now you're asking, you've tabled proposals to shut down the green markets, as our people call them, in cities and to move everything to your friend's "Maxie" discount, to "Tempo" and everything else. It's going to that variant. We're already running a quiet campaign and getting ready. For God's sake, this is what the European Union says. How can you make more laws and hide under the EU umbrella, and this has nothing to do with the EU? How do they protect their peasant, how do they make subsidies? Why don't you apply that part to Serbia, but apply whatever measures we don't have right now, because we're not ready for it? We know that our cheese manufacturer, the crayons, would love to have his own lab, have his own professional face, have an engineer running surveillance, have all the rooms in the tiles and where the milk is processed, but with what? He doesn't have bread to eat, he can't have a child, he can't buy a shoe, he can't buy a shoe, he can't eat. Have you seen corn on fire these days? Why? Because it's cheaper than gas. The farmer says nice – I'm twice as cheap because I pay for gas. You see, I am sorry that Mr. Bajatovic never has time to come to parliament here, although he is an MP, to explain that 60 per cent increase. Now there's going to be another pick-up, so we're going to have a power pick-up in a few days - 25%. How can a peasant survive? Here's the oil the other day for five dinars, so first of all, all mic per mitz, a little excise of expensive, a little bit of oil, a little more of it, we're following the world's price, but from New Year's to today 35 dinars per litre is... (President: National MP, please use nine minutes and thirty seconds from 15 minutes at your disposal...) Well, no, this is... (President: Please, in accordance with Article 103, and the gas and the electricity and everything else you have stated... Okay, this is life, this is amendments we want...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31062	National MP, you are required to listen to the Presidency's instructions when intervened on the basis of obligations under the Rules of Procedure. Please bring the remaining five minutes, as far as you can as the president of the parliamentary group, and gas, and electricity and excise duties in connection with the amendment of Prime Minister Milojkovic, i.e. with a search in particular of the amendments to the law we are discussing. You can explain whatever you want, just to respect article 103 together. Please sign in, you have another five minutes. Would you like to continue? (Velimir Ilic, from the place: Of course. ) Just log in to the electronic system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31063	I'm very sorry that you're interrupting me, but I've connected this; this is life, this is what we want through the amendments to fix, if possible, fix. You're throwing it away, you're not interested in it. You will pass some law that you will wave and speak to – here, we have passed another law, we are even closer to the European Union. No, Madam Chairman, we are with every law beyond the EU. Why? Because we're falling apart. The more these impractical laws, which ruin Serbia's economy and agriculture, we are getting into an increasingly difficult situation, and with the increasingly difficult situation, we are moving away from the EU. These laws, which are inapplicable in Serbia, separate us more, distance us and build a wall between us and the European Union. When we say we have 700,000 hungry, we don't knock on the EU door, we close them. We have to be much more practical. You must accept our amendments, those that are applicable, that will fix these bad laws of yours. You won't do it all the time. You're stubborn, and as soon as we turn around, you interrupt us and give us a lecture. What are you trying to tell us? That everything in this country is ideal, that everything is great, that the peasant lives great, that now you're going to fix his condition when you list how many cows there are, how many sheep? I would like to explain to you that in 2011, in many villages, you will have nothing to list. In the 17 villages of the municipality of Kursum, you have no inhabitants; you have nothing to list. The village is emptyed by one wrong, bad policy, by a policy that completely destroys and destroys it. Make sure it's not too late. But I think it'll be too late. And, all these applications, in two, three, four years... The question is, what are we going to have in Serbia, what condition? You're talking about the EU like we're going tomorrow or New Year's Eve. People said nice this morning that before 2014, we don't expect to apply. We can take whatever we want and write what we want, but we're not ready, at least they think so, and you haven't convinced them enough. Of these laws that we bring here on a daily basis, many of them are inapplicable or expensive to live in Serbia, they increase the administration, and they are moving us further away from our goal, which is to join the European Union. I was talking about a village that's in a difficult situation. Nothing of your list will contribute, if artificial fertilizer is collected every day, if a farmer for a bag of artificial fertilizer has to hand over three acres of land – it's a big salary for the house. It was at the beginning of the year two ar, and now it's three ar. Count; a little while longer, it will be more expensive fertilizer than land. I don't know where this is going or what we can expect from all this. It's a difficult situation in agriculture. After this disastrous ransom, the least I expected was for the Minister of Agriculture to resign. That would be quite human, quite correct. But he won't. You're boasting how you've produced exceptional results in agriculture. What's a farmer gonna do in Vojvodina with eight dinars to buy out the wheat? The bagatella corn, people lay fire to it, warm houses. Now you want to fix his condition by bringing him the statute. He'll have an administrative center and a science academy. That means a lot to him. The Peasant in Vojvodina will live much better when he gets another charge, to support the Academy of Science of Vojvodina, when he gets hundreds and thousands of administrative posts that he will have to pay. So every day you're making life more complicated in this country. Every day you make it more difficult for him, every day he needs money more and more for that expensive administration that you're making and you think you're doing something. You just don't know how to find a solution. That's why we suggested that you call the election properly. I won't bother you anymore. You'll adopt this. You will adopt everything, because you have this small, small majority, but I warn your MPs from the ruling majority that they will be responsible for all this that they adopt, that they will be responsible tomorrow for the transfer of jurisdiction and the statute of the Vojvodina; for this situation in agriculture; for many factories that have failed; for hundreds of thousands of people who have lost their jobs. So think carefully. Don't let this wave get to you that you're in power now. As you do, you will be in opposition very soon, but a minor opposition. I guarantee you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31064	A minute of time used by the MP's time group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31065	Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Radical Party has submitted an amendment to Article 3(2), which is amended and thus reads: "Agricultural land is a technical and economically independent production unit that has a single management and on which a company, an agricultural cooperative, an institution or another legal person, an entrepreneur or a family agricultural holding performs and organises agricultural production." In the light of the above, ‘Agricultural land is an independent business unit which, in addition to performing and organising agricultural production, manages agricultural production. “ Ladies and gentlemen, you hear the cry of those who meet agriculture and see great misery and poverty as they go around Serbia. With this law you want, in fact, to have the right state of agriculture, but I think you'll be terribly disappointed when you look at the right picture and the right state. In the middle of the last century, the model of economic development represented two significantly different sectors: agriculture and industry. The first is traditional; it was overpopulated, characterized by zero, marginal productivity and excess labour. This sector is not driven by the maximization of profits, but by strong family ties. Another way is modern and based on maximizing profits, advanced technology. The key to development was in this modern sector. Ladies and gentlemen, that's when you drove them all out of the village, brought them into town, and what's going on today? It happens that, with the collapse of industry, you want the failed workers to return to failed agriculture, or to create from it a peasant, who has no technical or material opportunity, except for what he inherited from his grandfather, grandfather or father, and that's the country. You can't just look at the earth, so that it's giving birth, but you have to work bloody on it. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to bring this to some healthy feet, it is necessary to make a major transformation in agriculture. It is also necessary to raise industrial production, because it is all in correlation, closely linked. If there is no technological progress in agriculture, there will be a decline in agricultural production and, of course, an increase in food prices. You didn't do it, because you want to put the market economy into agriculture. What did you do? Agriculture, which was poor anyway, and without concern from the state government, any regime, or agricultural producer, you bring peasants to the brink of misery, because there is no life there. You've cut off that production plan, and without that production plan, you can't function today. When we go to the store today, we buy goods from China, Argentina, Brazil, we buy beans, garlic. I ask you, what about agricultural production in Serbia? She's not bought out by anyone, because there's a price on the stock market for our agricultural product... That merchant lobby won't bend down to take goods from the village, where our peasants make them. That is, you now want to turn this agricultural household into a small factory by this article (or by this amendment). But which factory, who's going to work at that factory? It doesn't matter, you can bring someone all the machinery, but you can't do it without the labor force in agriculture. You can modernize everything, but in the end there must be someone who will cover that chain. Ladies and gentlemen, look at the reciprocity of that price. When I have to go to the field, I need to make a hundred gallons of oil, or one ton of wheat, right now, and more than a ton of wheat, to sell it... Can a farmer today, although the wheat varieties are very good, produce more than five tons? So to be profitable, they have to produce between eight and ten tons of wheat. Not to mention all other agricultural products, whose tone should be greater with the use of agrotechnical measures, using all the instructions in production. I have to tell you, in a village where I've been in a village of 500 households, there are only 15 of them in agricultural production. There are several young people who are single in these 15 who are engaged in agricultural production. Who do you think's gonna go on behind them? There are 5,000 single boys in the Mačvanski District; this is the census you should see, this disaster of Serbia, with a list of how many these agricultural households are. As for what was said earlier, it is, ladies and gentlemen, that only opposition parties talk about agriculture here, but unfortunately, many opposition parties are at a local level with the "yellows" in power and there do not talk about the hard life that we bring up behind this speaker. Think you'll be disappointed with this list when you see who's making everything, because 70-year-olds and 60-year-olds drive the machinery where you have to write it down. I ask you, what do you have to write down, do tractors that are fifty-fifty, sixty-three years old? Ladies and gentlemen, we will return to plow this land with horses and oxen, but there are no horses and oxen, nor boys to drive horses and oxen. The only salvation is, ladies and gentlemen, that you come down from power and sit normally in your seat and that this country is run by those who feel it. Maybe you're laughing, maybe it's all funny to you, but in this country, it's sad that a peasant receives social aid, called a peasant pension, which is less than social aid. That's why there are 15% of the poor in Šumadia and in Belgrade 3%, so now you see where Serbia is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31066	Six minutes and fifteen seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. A Serbian radical party is available for a minute and 30 seconds. Anyone else want a word? If not, the National MP Zlata Djeric submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 where, in the first sentence, "with the corresponding documentation attached", they are changing the words "with insight into the proper documentation". I really just meant the termological meaning of the term "apply" and the term "see" something; therefore, if something is attached, it implies that it should be put in addition to the list of documentation. Accepted amendment? Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31068	The amendment by the MP Zlata Djeric was accepted by the government, but we will have to vote on it, as well as on others, in the voting day, since the committees in charge did not report. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31069	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to delete the word "minimum" in Article 9(3), because I believe that the commission should have five members. In response to the government I received, it is said that the amendment cannot be accepted because the number of members of the census board depends on the size of the municipality. It is a broad term, the size of the municipality can be considered the number of inhabitants, the number of square kilometers, square meters, etc. I don't understand why the government has given such an answer not to accept the amendment, because this is about the agricultural list law, i.e. individual producers. You could have written a bar to depend on the number of individual owners, etc., that the amendment would not be accepted. On the other hand, I believe that this law, which is passed, is imposed on small, small-scale agricultural producers, i.e. the private owners who have logged in; there will probably be accurate information on this list. I doubt that agricultural holdings that have applied fairly and are doing their job will have an even greater burden. On the other hand, as far as agriculture is concerned, you have passed a law, which is passed here in parliament, the Law on Agricultural Land, and in my municipality (I come from the Vienna municipality) the law is not respected. The state has 11,000 hectares in the municipality of Becej; it has given the man who owns the PIC "Becej", Mr. Nicovic (use for the third year), an out-of-court settlement; no bidding on the issue of agricultural land has been held. In the view of the SRS, the state is absolutely a loser in these difficult times of economic crisis; the Republic budget, the province's budget, the local self-government budget would certainly be higher because the huge area of such land that is issued under the grains. The highest quality country in the area was issued, where the bidding was held, for three or four times the amount. Certain holdings in the Vienna municipality, such as individuals, want to participate in such bidding, but they don't get a chance. That is why I believe that this law, which will be passed, is unsurpassed, and the law that has been passed and not applied, is a great damage to both agricultural producers and the municipality, the province, the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31070	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the article 10th and member of the 10th People's MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted an amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, we expected the Minister of Agriculture to appear here today. It's no problem that you're here, because you've made it clear what kind of relationship you have to our agriculture, but we expected the Minister of Agriculture to come. You could have sent, for God's sake, your "universal", Mr. Milosavljevic, who actively participates in destroying our agriculture. I think they could give more appropriate answers to these amendments that we've submitted. I would like to appeal, given that the SRS no longer has time, except to explain the amendments, to try to make sure that our agriculture budget for next year (if you work on it, if there is time and if you can fight alongside so many colleagues), for 2010 is at 5%. This year, first of all on subsidies, you saved so much on the damage of agricultural producers. When you look at the order of subsidies in 2008, in this year, our farmers did not get 30% of that amount of funding. You did it in regulations, where you primarily damaged agricultural pensioners when you made a decision to get 30%, and you denied 40,000 dinars to non-communicated agricultural holdings, people who have between 5,000 and 8,200 dinars of pension. I think it's a shame and a shame and it's a shame for this government to treat our agriculture that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31072	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 12 and 12. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31073	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I must read this proposal: "The title above Article 12 and Article 12 is amended and it reads: The special organisations included in the list – Special Organizations - The Association of Serbia, the Association of Vojvodina and the Association of Kosovo and Metohija are obliged to assist the Republic Bureau of Statistics in carrying out the census within the framework of its law-set work. “ I have a specific question for you: how will you list agricultural land in Kosovo and Metohija, in a Serbian country that is perfiduously... Not only when it comes to this law, but when citizens of Serbia living in Kosovo and Metohija and our territory are concerned, you are skillfully avoiding answers. How are we going to list our agricultural land there? I have another question: how many of our people in Kosovo and Metohija received subsidies this year? What's that order of size? We are convinced that with one correct policy of our agriculture there is salvation, but you must start taking care of the citizens of Serbia, of our agriculture; not to continue what you did with our businesses, but to stand unequivocally with our farmer, because you know very well that agriculture is the only branch in which we are achieving a surplus. Certainly, agriculture should be an engine for Serbia's economic recovery. The way you do it... Believe that you will also bring agriculture to the brink of existence and that you should slowly carry out the task you have received from your mentors, the destruction of Serbia and the destruction of our citizens, that they cannot live in their own country...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31074	National MP, the time of the parliamentary group and the time at your disposal to explain the amendments has been used. Thank you. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31075	The proposer of this law provided for Article 13 of the 2011 Agriculture List to be carried out by municipal administrations and city administrations and would also monitor the implementation of the census on the territory of the unit of local self-government. With my amendment, I propose that after the words "local self-government units" add the words "in co-operation with the district in the accompanying services". The reason for this amendment is the principled position of us Serbian radicals that in the economic crisis the government in Serbia must rationalise all state costs and bring them down to a minimum, so that this troubled people in Serbia, who have been robbing for nine years, would not have to pay for what they should pay and what they should not pay for. Serbia's administrative districts today have 29, and their work will cost citizens and Serbia's budget as much as 393,000,000 dinars in 2009, which is about 4.2m euros. In these 29 administrative districts, about 349 civil servants were employed, and each administrative district has a politically appointed commissioner who receives a salary of about 100,000 dinars, costing 34.8 million dinars annually. Despite all these facts you know, you in the government's proposed law have not explicitly written anywhere that there will be active participation in the list of agriculture and administrative districts, but you have predicted the participation of some special organizations, not by which organizations of the state administration you mean. We Serbian radicals believe that you must include both administrative and technical capacities of the administrative districts in the list, as this will in some way justify their existence and prevent the financing of additional and unnecessary party commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31076	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31077	In front of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14 and I will try to explain it. I hope you'll allow me to take advantage of both my time and the time of the parliamentary group and that no one will interrupt me. Namely, this Article 14 retains what I was saying about my previous, first amendment, which is that we should combine the census and apartments with the list of farms, because the fact is, ie. The law states that 1,260,937,358 dinars, 180,160,434 dinars and 35,049,532 dinars will be allocated for 2010 from the Serbian budget of 22,533,222 dinars. We believe, first of all, that this should have been combined with the census, and secondly, I see no reason to settle the documentation in the era, in addition to 2011, both in 2012 and, normally, the funds for 2013. It's just amazing that it can't end after 15th of November 2011 until, say, the end of 2012, given that the computer is a miracle, that those who are...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31078	It's been two minutes. Thank you. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31079	Ladies and gentlemen, I will read paragraphs 2 and 3: "The list form fills in the authorised person according to the methodological instruction of the Republic Bureau of Statistics. “ Item 3: “The person providing the data on the census unit is required to fill in all the questions in the written form on the basis of the documentation available within and without compensation. “ We see one illogicality here — it remains unclear who is actually filling out the pattern. So we have an authorized face that fills out the form and we have a data-providing face that also fills out the pattern. That's illogical. If it's the same person, then it should be written in this point 2 and point 3. If it's different faces, then they can't both fill out the form. If position 2 makes it clear that the list form fills in the authorised person, then this person who provides the data on the list unit can only answer all questions in the list form. In that sense, I have submitted an amendment to replace the word “fill ” with“ yes. ” Otherwise, in the event that this amendment is not accepted, you will find yourself in an illogical situation – you will not know who makes your list.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31080	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31081	Just as I explained Article 1, I'm using the same thing now; so, the Serbian Radical Party is absolutely in order to unite the census of the population and apartments and the list of agriculture. One simple reason is to avoid these 1,498,680,546 dinars. If there are difficulties somewhere, there are in agriculture, and if there is somewhere to be saved, then at least in this part of the list is to be saved. I repeat, there is absolutely how much funds you have allocated in 2010, 2011, 2012, and then you extend even if for 2013 you take another 35,000 thousand dinars from the budget to complete the documentation. I find that absolutely unnecessary, especially in 2013. It's impossible that in the era when we have computers, it can't literally take about 13-14 months to complete the documentation relating to the census and the agricultural list. So, Madam Minister, you keep trying... You don't even look at us from opposition parties or from the Serbian Radical Party. You don't look at our amendments and don't listen, but I ask you, therefore, that budget, in total, the Government of the Republic of Serbia of 2.2% in 2009 is 6% this time, not 18.000,000,000 dinars for agriculture, but to be 30,000,000,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31082	The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31083	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have tabled an amendment to Article 22(2). Thus, the words “30000 to 50,000 ” are replaced by the words“ 10,000 to 30,000 dinars. ” The Serbian Radical Party believes that in the current economic situation, these penalties should be milder and they should be reduced. It is not Serbia as the European Union, that these criminal provisions affect a man; consider that the standard is higher in that European Union. There is no standard here, because you have destroyed everything, economics, health care, culture, science, education, education, and you want punishment to be like in Germany, France or any other European country. That's unreal. That's why we think the heights of punishment should be lower. Not the lower ones, but the real ones. It can't be paid for either money or natural. The exact data on the list will not be available. You've heard that from many MPs. The reasons are known, the farmer fears all these questions that the censusor will refer to – how many pigs, how many chickens, how many lambs, how many wine, how many brandy? He must hide it jealously from you in order to survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31084	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31085	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment regarding these penalties that you have provided to punish both legal persons and those who make a list, including those who have to give certain information. You made sure that those fines were very high, from 20,000 to 50,000, or from 30,000 to 50,000. I'm asking you, where does the guy who gets the money to get it and where, probably need to take the loan? I'll probably get off the subject a little bit, but it's very important that you hear, because the Science and Technological Development Committee... a normal, and a specific strategy that is needed in agriculture, which is predicted in this period ahead of us, so I'm going to tell you very briefly in two or three sentences what is actually waiting for us... "Research in the area of agriculture and food has always been in the most direct connection with the development of our country's agriculture and food industry. Experiences so far show that in this area, quality scientific and educational institutions are important for each country. Such institutions represent an imperative of development for each country. Their future mission should be resolved, long-term directed and tested by consumers and manufacturers. “ Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, all of this is beautifully written, and where are these research centres today in Serbia, which are privatized? Where are our golden seeds?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31086	Two minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Antić, Otto Kishmarton and Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Popovic is registered in the electronic system, I presume for your amendment? The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31087	In Article 23. The proposal for a agricultural list law provides that a fine of 20,000 to 50,000 dinars will be fined by a family holding holding a holding of a family holding, if it refuses to list the data of the owner or if it gives it incorrect or incomplete data to be collected. I have submitted an amendment proposing to replace the fine from 20,000 to 50,000 with a fine of 10,000 to 30,000 dinars. We Serbian radicals find it inappropriate to charge the budget by punishing farmers with dragon penalties of 250 to 550 euros. This means that if a farmer receives a agricultural pension of around 7,350 dinars, and this amount receives 96% of Serbian agricultural pensioners, he should allocate nearly seven of his pensions to pay the fine you have provided. This socially responsible government, consisting of Krkobibic, Dacic, Tadic and Dinkic, came up very nicely. My citizens from the League call me every day and ask me if the agrarian budget will be increased next year, if the state will help individual farmers. I don't know what to say, because the Minister of Agriculture is not ready to talk openly in this assembly with the MPs about our farmers' problems. Finally, I would like to ask one question: is it also true that from September of the month of the Serbian slaughterhouse they started importing pork from EU countries so that they could maintain production? Is it true that this is due to a low ransom price and reduced state subsidies, which led to the decline of livestock production in Serbia, thanks to the government of Boris Tadic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31088	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31089	I have submitted an amendment in front of the SRS to replace the figures from 50,000 to 100,000 in these criminal provisions in Article 24. These criminal provisions refer to censusors and all persons who will participate in this list, instructors who will work in municipalities and all cities. Article 9 regulates the tasks of these people to work in the list of agricultural holdings and agriculture. I consider the penalties to be small, given that they have great responsibility as far as the exact data is concerned, the recording and the adoption of documentation. For these reasons, my amendment, i.e. The Serbian Radical Party's amendment refers to an increase in the criminal provisions of this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31090	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 26 by MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31091	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 26. The title says: Publishing the first and final results of the list. Article 26: ‘Republic Bureau of Statistics shall publish: 1) the first results of the census within 30 days of the date of completion of the census; 2) the final results of the census from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2013.’. Twenty-four months. To complete these lists you will be working from April 1st to April 15th (this is the census and dwellings) and from November 1st to November 15th 2011 (the agricultural list) you need 24 months in 2012 and 2013. I repeat, in the era when computers work, when you can insert everything, when every municipality and city is available, we will appear to have to wait 31 December 2013. Once again, I would like to tell you, Mrs Dragutinović, finance ministers – when you propose a 2010 budget, take care of agriculture. Don't make it 6% of the total budget separate from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management or, roughly, 30 billion. I think you'll be hot in 2010, as far as agricultural producers and their strikes are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31092	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the closing statement, as referred to in Article 144. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31093	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, similar to the previous draft law, and yet this is just a draft law on the 2011 agricultural census. Of course, in your, very interesting, discussions it was much more than that. There were more words about agrarian politics and beyond, and less about the law itself. Basically, there were two groups of amendments, if I could systematicize them: one group referred to the so-called Penalties, and there were two groups of MPs within that group, for one punishment they were too mild, and for other punishments they were too harsh. Anyway, I'd like to remind everyone here that the criminal provisions are in line with the Violents Act. The second group of amendments referred to the so-called so-called a proposal for a significant number of Members to connect two lists. Indeed, at first glance it looks like a pretty good remark and a good amendment. Each of us, I suppose, loves originality; originality is beautiful in art, but when it comes to methodology, there are books, there is knowledge, there is a previous experience. In such proposals I always first explore what is a prevailing experience, explore the reasons why, for example, this is nowhere, in any country is connected, except that the latest experience says that one country did it – in 2002 it was the case of Poland. She did it to achieve exactly what you said should be the result – lower costs. In the end, she only doubled her job; she had to do the 2002 agricultural census again. I would just briefly refer to Mrs. Djeric's words, I think she was a MP who declared this law somewhat discriminatory. I really don't see what's discriminatory about it, especially because the census, the settlements cover all the residents, and the agricultural population. This is just a law that requires more information about agriculture, such as land use, livestock stock, machinery, fertilizer use, employed labour. There's nothing discriminatory about that law. As for agricultural policy and the draft budget, it will soon be in front of this parliament. We all can't wait together, and you, and me, and the government and the citizens of this country, we all can't wait together. I would remind the MPs that they might take a closer look at the amount of subsidies in the previous period. I've personally explored and seen, let's just say, that probably the most recorded subsidies in agriculture were in 2008, the one with the rebalancing that you've been criticizing together. Before that, they were far lower, 2006, 2007, when Ilic, for example, was a member of the government. At the time, he was not bothered by subsidies in the agriculture of thirteen billion; he was disturbed by 15 billion subsidies, or 28. The subsidy will be as much space in this budget. It'll be bigger than they were. I don't know what analysis and budget you've been looking for and implicitly ordering the agrarian budget to be 6%. I hope you mean 6% of the total budget expenditure. I don't know what kind of calculations that is. He'll be, if there's room, certainly bigger than he was this year. You should not forget that, in addition to subsidies and regular budget revenues allocated for subsidies in agriculture, there are also significant revenues in the category of own revenue, which range between five and seven billion dinars annually. There is a legal basis that these funds of the Ministry of Agriculture are also used for subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31094	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. (Milorad Krstin, from the post: I was not understood by the minister. Please don't throw it away. People's MP, on several occasions during this session, you are violating order. I'm speaking to the People's Messenger, Milorad Kristin. I refer you to reading the business provisions that regulate the course of the session in the part of the search in particular and what it means that the proposing representative has the final word. After that, none of the participants in the session, according to the Rules of Procedure, have the right to receive a word, and please consult the Rules of Procedure and follow closely the course of the session. You're throwing it out of place. I made it clear to MP Dobrislav Prelic how much time he spent and how much time he had left from the time of the parliamentary group. In your announcement and interpretation of the amendments you are entitled to, you are acting in a way that threatens the dignity of the National Assembly. You insult me personally, and you behave unworthyly and inappropriately to what the Messenger of the people should, respecting the Rules of Procedure, present in the sitting. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Before I determine the break and end of the afternoon of our session, I'll inform you, on the basis of Article 85. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that we will be working today after 1800 hours. We will continue the debate in detail on the draft law which is on the agenda at that time only if this requires the completion of the debate in particulars under the draft law, no longer than sixty minutes. The afternoon part starts with a discussion in detail of the 17th agenda. Thank you. [[After break – 15.30]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. We move to the 17th item of the agenda – Proposal for a CONSTRUCTION OF THE PUBLIC ASSESSMENT FOR THE EXPRIATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION FOR THE BUILDING OF THE MG-11 GAGISTRALIC GAZOD (single) Notice of the invitations to the sitting: I would like to inform you that, in view of the consideration of the 17, 18, 19 and 20th points of the sitting agenda, and in accordance with Article 88(1), National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, National Assembly President Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, in addition to the representative of the motion of Petar Škundric, Minister of Mining and Energy, invited the sittings to attend: Dusan Mrakić and Radivoje Milanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Mining and Energy; Tatjana Jovanovic, head of the cabinet of the Minister of Mining and Energy; Aleksandra Babić, adviser in the Oil and Gas Sector of the Ministry of Mining and Energy; Zlatiborka Andrej, adviser at the Ministry of Mines and Energy and Milica Zoric, adviser in the Ministry of Mining and Geology of the Ministry of Energy. You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: together Otto Kišmarton, Mileta Poscurica, Zoran Antić, Ljiljana Miladinović and Zoran Babic and the People's MP Vjerica Radeta. You received a report from the Finance Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Otto Kišmarton, Mileta Poscurica, Zoran Antic, Ljiljana Miladanovic and Zoran Babic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31096	Mrs. Komic, the amendment submitted is a good opportunity to say something about this bill, of course, by sticking to what is prescribed in Article 3. A bill of this law, so that our public can gain insight into what is done and how is done. Of course, I'm not going into whether or not the amendment will be accepted. What are the reasons why such an amendment has been submitted (it is only a deadline), I will not enter into it either, but for the sake of the public it should be understood that it represents the interest of the Republic of Serbia to gasify the Republic of Serbia and enable all users to use this energy, so that the energy crisis and what is called energy is a question of who in the future we will devote much more time to than we have so far devoted to, not only gas as energy, but also to all possible alternative energy sources, both non-renewable and renewable ones, because it is estimated that in the next ten years there must be some solution for stable energy security, not to go beyond, for the space of the Republic of Serbia. We are ahead of other locations, both in Europe and elsewhere, because we have some natural potential to use some energy and address the issue of our country's energy security. Of course, I can also talk about this amendment and this article from the aspect of whose son works at Jugorosgas, I can also talk about who's headed "Yugorosgas", etc., but I think it's already known. Mr. Skundrich, everyone knows that. It's illusory to talk about it, because a real discussion would be reduced to something that is insignificant at this point. The question is much more important. You'll probably agree. It is more important when it comes to the fact that the sale of NIS has raised another question – the issue of price; it is likely that the question of compensation will be opened in the near future because of that price, but that I am not opening that question, you know what problems you are facing yourself. If we go back to Article 3. The bill and this amendment, then the main question is, since the motion has been recognised in the debate in the principle that this law deviates from the rules that exist in the Expropriation Act and that it has to decide on this move to repeal all the principles of the Expropriation Act by this law, so I want to continue to move in these frameworks... You see, when expropriations are carried out, there is usually a plan, some program, and so it is said – the route goes from there to there, passes through these and these cadastrian plots, and these cadastrian parcels must be covered by expropriation, whether it is official, whether partial expropriation, these are already some variations on the subject. It's obvious this law doesn't have that. Why? Because you need to provide primate to someone who's designed to have a primate in the future. Will all procedures be completed within a year or within six months? You know, there's a question of the enforceability of our laws -- there's so many laws where deadlines are set, and they're not pre-inclusive deadlines, so they're not deadlines that involve a sanction when a deadline is missed, and we have laws where the pre-exclusive deadlines are, so it's not respected again. Basically, this is one resolution, one declaration that should allow for something presented in public as a great victory and a great interest in the Republic of Serbia. You're absolutely right about that, and I have to tell you that. Seven or eight days ago, we had a continuation of what is "South Stream" – but this law has nothing to do with what is called "South Stream", it has no direct link, it has indirect connections – and Slovenia concluded the contract, a few days ago the European Commission concluded with Russia a security and security contract for that traffic, gas transport, etc. So there's a big interest. "Nubuko" is a mirage organ at the moment, it has to be said, and the main point of the "Nubuko" project is the source because they have no source. They have an idea where it should go, but they don't have a source and they have an obligation to provide 200 million credits to stab the first pen into some paper. It's not a matter of my arbitraryness, it's a matter of some of the official institutions in the world that have been considering this transcontinental problem of energy. Just to draw attention to the fact that for several years now, there have been very sharp sentences that say Russia has no right to energy monopoly, that their natural wealth is not only theirs, but that they should share it with someone else. Whatever's going on at the Caspian Base, we'll probably hear in a few years, but enough is to think, too, that stupid wing of banning the spread of nuclear weapons... Why do I say – stupid? Expansion is forbidden, and what already exists is not prohibited. It seems a little pointless. It comes to you as a French radio show; we have something and we don't let anyone else have it. So, it's a very big question. This law is minor to these big questions, because it solves, let's say, one part of some future exploitation or use. From the point of view of this amendment, whether the expropriation ends within a year or within six months, it is a completely trivial situation. Why? Not a moment depends on us, depending on who invests, who has the money and who you give this job to. You transferred the business to a company that operates under our regulations. She is in mixed possession, she is now using it as she wishes. Someone represents it as a foreign investment, that it is necessary to allow foreigners to use this. However, I would return to a villa in Senjak, a child employed by that company or children employed by that company. I'd go back to what someone represents if this had no alternative. There's an alternative. The question is whether you want that alternative or not. It's indecipherable that the name of the company is in one law, you know. Every law is a general act. When it comes to the general act, then in a general way, universal, objective, impartially edits some matter. When the individual law says "name and last name" of the company, to be prescient - company name, then it's no longer a general act, then it becomes an individual act, then it becomes a particularisation of something. But if we need this law, where we give a name and a name, to specify something, then there's no need for law. It rises to the level of the law completely unnecessary, only because there is no appropriate company, in accordance with the Expropriation Act. Mr. Skundric, of course, is an unbearable presence of the West on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It is intolerable to involve the United States in vital interests, not to exaggerate, but to answer the truth, almost every plate at lunch in the Republic of Serbia, it is unbearable. We need to get even somehow, some competition needs to come, there's got to be another sex. It's totally acceptable as a commitment. As a man who was still in 1996, 1999 and 2000 talking about this good relationship with the Russian Federation, Mr. Skundric, so we almost had the muscle we radically forced the Socialists and the JUL to accept this agreement on close relations with Russia and Belarus... You remember, I guess. Then we organized, let's say, the enthusiasm of the people in front of the National Assembly. But it is totally unacceptable for us to use the leadership of the SPS, which is headed by "Serbiagas", for example, by using this good mood and good relations with the Russians to use NIS potentials to employ people from a village in the territory of the Vrbas municipality to vote for the SPS. It's already beyond our intra-party struggle. This comes from the assumption that the abuse of foreign partners and foreign funds is being committed, so before we know that the majority owner of the NIS is now the Russian side. I don't know why you embarrass Serbia and throw foreign partners and their resources into something called an intra-party struggle. It would never occur to us. We'd just be ashamed to do that. For example, in some villages there you hired 15 - 16 children to work in the oil industry to achieve a good result in local elections; you still promised to hire 60 of them. How many lost their jobs because of you hiring your 16 people? Yes, your Bajatovic did it in the campaign, you know. You also renovated the pub, so you had a party there for three days just to do something.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31097	National MP, please bring the subject of employment and unemployment into connection with expropriation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31098	Here it is said, Mrs. Komic, in law – a year, and these propose six months. I am talking about the amendment right now and how the good will in the Republic of Serbia is being misused, the majority expressed will, for political, economic, financial and any other friendship with us dear countries abroad, how this is being misused. If you can't find a connection to that, I'm absolutely sure 99.9% of citizens find a connection in all the words I've said.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31099	The National MP, duty and duty, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is that, listening to you carefully, I find a link with the amendment that reads: “A proposal for expropriation, i.e. an administrative transfer of immobility and incomplete expropriation through the establishment of an immovableity service for which the public interest is established by this law can be submitted to the municipal, or city administration of a local self-government unit whose territory is immobility, within six months of the date of entry into force of this law. “ Article 103 obliges me and you to talk about what is on the agenda. After eleven minutes and thirty seconds of your exposure, I asked you to bring the subject of unemployment and employment, legal or illegal, in connection with the content of the amendments for which you have, to explain, been given the word. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31100	Mrs. Komic, all I said is whether it should be done within six months or within a year. But you obviously didn't read the bill, so you don't know what this tantanic difference is between the bill and the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31101	People's MP, I'm warning you now, you can't know and you can't claim whether or not I've read the bill. I listen very carefully to you and follow you to Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be applied. Please use your time by respecting Article 103. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31102	Mrs. Comic, I'm trying to convince you that the expropriation for this route can't be completed in six months, not in a year. That's exactly what I'm trying to convince you, because I have some experience with this expropriation, I've been doing something in my life before I started doing politics. My life experience tells me that I also have a critical view of some of the solutions that are proposed, both in the law and in the amendment. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to continue. I hope you realize that expropriation is not such a simple thing, because by expropriation it enters the right property of an individual, a physical person. This law is an antidote to stereotype and correct solutions that exist in something called the principle of expropriation, because even an administrative transfer is foreseen here, which is when property is transferred from one state or social-legal person to another social-legal person. Now these are some other concepts that are very complicated for you, you can't understand that. That's not the problem. The problem is that it is absolutely impossible by law, as a general act, to regulate one right or one area in a general way, by giving a name and name, or the name of a legal person. That's one big flaw. The other big flaw is that, excuse me, please, this law denies the Expropriation Act. He denies all the principles on which the Expropriation Act is based. I'm trying, Mrs. Comic, to find a connection between the reasons why it takes this kind of violation, in my opinion, or disrespect for something called constitutionality and legality... I'm putting it in touch with the villa in Senjak, the director of the company and those whose children are employed in that company and real connections, some combinations. Let me remind you, a year ago they regretted not being in Mr. Skundric's place. They didn't want the seat of the National Assembly president, he says -- I'd better be a minister of energy because of future economic and energy relations with Russia. It's some kind of exclusive for Mr. Skundric as well. Now he understands why someone is attacking him. Because it's your competition, Mr. Skundric. Let's skip it now, since I've been explaining some things in riddles for the audience, and Mr. Skundric is absolutely clear. Of course, there must be something in this context called current political life, because if it wasn't for this current political life we wouldn't have this bill of law, we would have a completely different bill. We would have a law in which it is said - state-owned enterprises with the majority role of the state, call a tender, compete who will get this right to execute gasification, etc. That's what gave up. Why did it give up? There's some big reason for that. Since you're not letting me say what a big reason this is, here, at this point I'm going to interrupt this discussion of mine and hopefully it'll be a lot better for you all, a lot easier. And how it will be for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, how they will think in the next election, which is why and how, that is their question, but I think I have warned them enough that something bad is happening.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31103	Fifteen minutes and thirty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by MP Slobodan Maras, authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31104	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Madam Chairman, I have reported that I would point to the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 27; what does the President, or the Chairman, do – except that he cares about the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he also takes care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly. I must remind you that when you opened this item of the agenda, or discussion of the details, you did not specify that the Legislative Committee delivered its opinion. We had it when we talked about the law. I really believe that without the opinion of the Legislative Committee, which must say whether this law is contrary or in accordance with the Constitution, it is without substance to lead this debate. We feel that we will make a big mistake if, with a law like this, without the opinion of the Legislative Committee, we go out in the day to vote before the MPs. We strongly suggest that, in accordance with Article 98(2), the Legislative Committee meet. Or is there a problem why the Legislative Committee should not be declared? I know there can be a debate, there is no decidently written, Madam Chairman, but I am telling you that we are putting the National Assembly and the integrity of the National Assembly at risk because the Legislative Committee has not done its job, or has not declared whether the law that lies before us is in accordance with the Constitution or not. After that, if you'll excuse me, when you answer, I'll use my 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31105	People's MP, as part of your explanation, you said you knew there could be a debate. Therefore, we share the view that Article 27 is not injured and that the debate in particular can take place. You have 15 minutes at your disposal, not 20 minutes, in search of details. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31106	This is a topic that we had two weeks ago; LDP MPs tried almost all afternoon to convince you that without amending the Expropriation Act this law should not even come before MPs, that it is counter-constitutional. Even that afternoon, all day long, we've spent trying to convince you that this Lex specialises, or this law, where you allow one company to expropriate, you're running the Expropriation Act that you're calling on, Article 8. We also question Article 70 where the general interest of the Expropriation Act is concerned. I'd like to begin my presentation with one question for Mr. Skundric. Mr Skundric, you said during the debate that day, I have a stenogram in front of me, that when it comes to "Yugorosgas" it is not about the Russian company, but about a Serbian company with majority ownership, with majority Russian capital. It works under the laws of the Republic of Serbia, registered in Serbia, and we can appreciate whether it works, as other companies do. Mr. Skundric, while the LDP MPs were sitting in this room, you didn't say it. You said that when none of our representatives were in the O.R., at the time, that Jugorosgas was a Serbian firm. We spent the whole day trying to explain why Jugorosgas did not become a Serbian firm, which is why the relationship is no longer 50-50. We were trying to explain that the failures of the government, in which Mr. Naumov was Minister of Energy, Prime Minister Mr. Kostunica, and then for the directors of "Serbiagas", NIS was also appointed party people, "Energogas", and one of the directors of "Energogas" became the assistant minister of energy... This gentleman who missed, although in charge of the NIS Management Board, to implement the decision of the NIS Management Board to buy 25% of the Progress Trading action for 4.6 million dollars, he was also your assistant; now he is not, but he is not the only director of the "Energogas" who is employed at Jugoros. That's the problem. A moment ago, Mr Krasic said, and I disagree with him, that it is not a problem who is employed in "Yugorosgas". That's a big problem, Mr. Skundrich. You are the Minister of Energy, the President of the NIS Shareholders Assembly, and your nephew, nephew or I don't know what he's doing in Jugorosgas. The Director of the ‘Srbiagas’ shall act as Vice-President of the ‘Yugorosgas’. Former assistant ministers, i.e. the directors of "Energogas" work in "Yugorosgas", a company that is 75% owned by foreign property, which we now allow to expropriate beyond the law, i.e. against the Expropriation Act. That is why, Madam Chairman, I have asked the Legislative Committee to state whether this is in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Mr. Skundric, we've been trying for over a year -- you remember last winter, when there was a gas crisis and when there was a gas collection of 64% -- to show you that we can't have such a relationship with a single country that has a monopoly on gas, that we can't have such a relationship with a country that we want a partner relationship with. Of course, everyone in this hall and probably everyone in this country who is following that topic wants there to be a "South Stream", that is, a leg that will pass through Serbia, but look, a few days ago, Slovenia signed with "Gasprom", or with the Russian side agreement on "South Stream", but what is the ratio – 50:50; Bulgaria 50:50, Greece 50:50, only Serbia 51:49. Why do we give up our partner relationship so easily, the same relationship with any party, even if it's a hundred times bigger than us? Is it because the old debt we have to Russia hasn't been settled yet? Is it because the oil industry of Serbia was operating with eight billion losses in 2008? Mr. Skundric, your statement has really startled me when it comes to the eight billion. Not a single word of responsibility, not one word of responsibility. And last time I said it, the man who was director of NIS when it was made so much loss is now the director of the Pannonian Power Plants. Where are those board people? They must be in some good places. Serbia's oil industry has done so much damage, eight billion, and someone has handed over the final bill that the NIS has won two billion! Where did that money go? Someone's responsible, but you're not one word of responsibility. You are the Minister of Energy, you know how much I respect you, I really expect you to say at least one word of responsibility – my assistant minister, whom I found at a time when "Yugoros" became Russian 75%, he was guilty, he was in charge. There are NIS decisions in the government – Mr. Svedovic, director of "Energogas" is in charge. After that, he became Assistant Minister of Naumov, so your assistant minister and now you know where he works. Someone's responsible. Mr. Saramandic, director of NIS, asked the press what his salary was, he just laughed. It led the company to a loss of eight billion, the oil industry of Serbia, which is advertised, which finance shows on various televisions. What's the problem with us, as far as the master's pipeline is concerned, what's a company called "Yugorosgas" got the right to expropriate? Number one, the violation of the Expropriation Act. Under two, it was obtained by "Yugorosgas", a company owned by a foreign company, a company where the director of "Srbigas" is sitting as vice president of the Jugorosgas Assembly; his salary is three times higher, as well as any previous one. He's sitting in function, not because he's the smartest and the best in the area. Sit down. His salary is three times higher than the salary he gets in "Srbigas". So did his predecessors: Mr Milankovic, who introduced the mediator and who made clear with his seal and signature that the Russian side never pressured to introduce the mediator, Mr Sasa Ilic, after that and everyone else. Whose interests are they defending? That's why I think, Mr. Krasic, it's important who's in "Yugorosgas". Serbian citizens expect regular gas delivery, expect gas not to be the most expensive, or have a relatively good price, that they can pay, that Serbia is gassed. You say that Jugorosgas has been expropriated to gas south of Serbia. He got it in 1996. They haven't done anything in 13 years, except become intermediaries who take 5% of the gas purchases. One of them didn't build it. We now have to believe that they will do so and let them expunge the country in Serbia. I don't think you're responsible. Someone did. But you are the Minister of Energy, the President of the NIS Shareholders' Assembly. Someone must be responsible for Serbia's lack of equal relations with Russia's Gazprom firm in Jugorosgas. Someone's got to be responsible for being a middleman. Someone has to be responsible for the debt of eight billion. I expect you to at least do something about it. Not that you're saying -- we're doing it with the Russians, paraphrasing, ironing, we've solved the problem. You did not resolve with the citizens of Serbia -- who is the 20th-seat firm in Europe in October 2008, led to the loss of eight billion in just a few months. I expect answers from you. Once again, I have to ask you, how could the government respond within two days to the decision of the Srbiagas Management Board to buy a threem-euro "Belgrade Informatics" action, in order to raise the value of the actions? One more thing, please answer, we didn't hear from you last time: when President Medvedev was there, did anyone mention in the talks the gas debt Serbia has towards Russia, which occurred in the 1990s? What's gonna happen to that debt? The debt exceeds the value of the company "Srbigas". How are you going to beat it or iron it with the Russian side? I hope you'll answer any of these questions I asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31107	Since the time of the authorised representative, eleven minutes and twenty seconds have been used. National MP Zoran Krasic wants the word, the time of the parliamentary group is 51 minutes and 30 seconds. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Ostojić. Excuse me, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31108	Dear Mrs. Comic, colleagues and colleagues, this is my appeal to you all to stop breaking Article 104 together, which is the dignity of the Assembly. You just said that the Rules of Procedure allow the debate to continue, even if there is no opinion of the Legislative Committee. That's formally correct. Essentially, it does not say in the Rules of Procedure that the opinion of the Legislative Committee is necessary as a form, but as a essence. We discussed this law in principle without the opinion of the Legislative Committee. That was before last week, Wednesday. It's been 12 days since. In those twelve days, the Legislative Committee could meet. That something fat with this law is wrong, when it comes to its constitutionality and legality, they prove two facts. There is no chairman of Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic's Legislative Committee here to answer why, let's say, that didn't happen on the Legislative Committee. I remind you, Mrs Comic, that the Legislative Committee met in these 12 days on Friday and gave an opinion on the statute, but did not give an opinion on this law. It is easy to conclude that the Legislative Committee refuses to give an opinion. Now you're going to say that we can continue to debate. We can vote, but it's the destruction of the Parliament's dignity, the adoption of a law that's unconstitutional. There's been plenty of time. If you convinced us then that we could discuss in principle, and then the MP groups agreed with us...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31109	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP, the member you quoted was not injured. The argument was repeated, a reasoning that MP Slobodan Maras pointed out. Both you and I agree that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured in any of their members for normal and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the course of the session, a review of the draft law in particular. MP Zoran Krasic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 50 minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31110	Mrs. Comic, I called about the replica, given that Mr. Marash has repeatedly...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31111	You have no right to a replica. You can use the time of your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31112	I don't want to use time, but consider your position on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31113	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31114	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, please respond, if possible, now, that you do not leave it to end the debate, to give the answer then. Then, of course, the chairman will not allow for a replica, or an additional question. Please answer, so that we can ask a further question or, if something is explained to us, to thank you for making this clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31115	It's been used 30 seconds since the MP's group's time. National MP Zoran Ostojić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31116	Mrs. Comic, I'm advertising a violation of article 101. Now you've said a sentence as to how you, Mr. Marash and I agree that no injured Rules of Procedure. I don't...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31117	People's MP, a member of 101 can't be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Article 101 defines the right to replica and Article 101 cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, as the final position of that member states that the decision on who has the right to reply shall be taken by the chair. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? National MP Zoran Ostojic is looking for a replica. You have no right to reply to anyone's exposure. Thank you. The People's MP, the chairman, gives an explanation when any MP warns him that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The president's explanation cannot be given the right to a replica, of course. On Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for this law, a very serious and extensive principle debate was held a decade ago, and the constitutionality and legality of this proposal, of course, in relation to the Constitution and the Expansion Act, were seriously questioned. I would really agree with colleagues who insisted that the Legislative Committee declare this, at least in particular. It is amazing that not all of what the MPs are saying about some of the bill's proposals and at least what could have been done is that the Legislative Committee is being declared, to see who will stand behind it and to confirm that this law is in accordance with the Constitution and the Expropriation Act. Here, in the principle debate, many lawyers spoke, and there was an undivided opinion, even the minister himself said in his presentation that it was true that "Yugorosgas" was a private firm and that it is true that this law deviates from the Expropriation Act. I really don't see why you can't get the strength and schedule this Legislative Committee, so let's see what the parliamentary majority in the Legislative Committee will say on this subject. On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I asked that in Article 5, which speaks of when the law enters into force... You predicted it would be the next day since the day of publication, and we asked it to be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is that this law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication. In its final position, the Constitution states in its 196th position that laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for that adoption. Mr Skundric, you did not convince us in the light of this law that there are indeed reasonable reasons for this law to enter into force on the day of its adoption, or the next day, by saying in Article 3 and yourself that the motion for expropriation, i.e. the administrative transfer of immovable property, to which this law would potentially apply, could be submitted within one year of the date of entry into force of this law. So that's where you left your one-year term, you're in no hurry, and here when the law needs to come into force against the spirit of the Constitution, as well as the provisions of Article 196. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then you're in a hurry. Why did we think this was supposed to change and you didn't convince us? You say that, in accordance with Rule 164 of our Rules of Procedure, it is necessary to adopt this law by an emergency procedure to prevent the occurrence of harmful consequences due to the delay of the start of the construction of the Master's gas pipeline MG-11, etc., and not to miss the construction season. What construction season, Mr. Minister, are you talking about on November 23rd? When is this construction season? What construction season will be missed if this law does not enter into force on the day of its adoption? In addition, if you had an honest intention and really needed this law urgently, then with the President of Parliament and with the parliamentary majority, this primarily refers to the President of Parliament and to the Assembly's majority... Then a deal would be made with the government, so we would have these few laws here that the government thinks should go into effect against the provisions of Article. Article 196(4) The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and then we would have discussed these laws by an urgent procedure and they would have been passed long ago and would have long gone into effect. No, you didn't, because there's really no need for this law to come into effect like that, but, well, someone who wrote this law has come to mind to write it, and you certainly don't think of accepting the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, so that at least in this part of the law you can match it with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, the proposal for this law is scheduled for a session discussing 58 points of the agenda; therefore, 58 points and within that you have a law that must immediately enter into force. On the other hand, I repeat, you didn't actually want to, at least you didn't show us that you wanted to. We've already interrupted this session that has, like I said, 58 agenda points once before, so we interrupt it again tomorrow. It is obvious that we are right when we think you should accept this amendment, and once again I stress that it was really necessary for the draft of this law to be declared in particular by the Legislative Committee, to remove this dilemma which the lawyer thinks is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and with the Expropriation Act. As a lawyer with years of experience, I claim not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31119	Four minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Slobodan Maras, then National MP Judita Popovic and MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31120	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, once again I urge you to give us the opportunity to speak when you answer our question, or at least to realize that we understand each other, that you are right. I ask you to take part in the debate after our presentations, because we will be in a position to close the discussion of the details, that you as Minister will present your opinion and – let's go home. I don't think that's correct, at least because of that relationship that the Liberal Democratic Party had with you each time as Minister of Energy, who also had respect for this assembly. Please state it again and, if you don't mind, answer some of the questions we asked you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31121	The word is made by Minister Petar Skundric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31122	I will be happy to come when there are parliamentary questions and answer all these questions that you have asked, which have nothing to do with this legal project. All the questions you've asked are out of the domain of this Expropriation Act. I can express my agreement with you that it is really necessary for the Legislative Committee to declare this legislative project and agree with you that this is what the Legislative Committee needs to do. To answer about the urgency of the procedure. You rightly object that certain jobs and projects that could have been done have not been done during a certain period of time. It is true that Jugorosgas was licensed for this highway pipeline back in 1996, and the last one was won in 2007, but I really don't want to call anyone here who worked those jobs before me. I want to create opportunities for these projects to be realized. To answer when the season begins – it begins the moment when the conditions are obtained. In order for conditions to be met, certain advances must be made. It is not crucial whether the law enters into force day or eight days after publication, it is crucial to pass the law and immediately access those actions that will ensure that in March of the month the physical implementation of this project can begin when construction works can begin. Also, once I have taken the floor, I want to respond that there is a plan of detailed regulation for the construction of the master's pipeline and that at the level of local self-government it will be elaborated in detail. Therefore, it is true that all the conditions have been met that it is possible to pass this law as a special law. He has the form of a special law, in accordance with Article 2. Expropriation law. Let the congregation, after all, make a statement as to whether it is in accordance with the law and with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31123	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31124	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as Vice-President of the Assembly, I appeal to Article 31. The Rules of Procedure, which says the vice presidents of the National Assembly, are helping the president of the National Assembly to do business from its work. I also refer to Article 27(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, which says the president of the National Assembly is doing the work provided for in the Constitution. The constitution provides, among other things, for the Assembly to pass laws. Therefore, the President of the Assembly, i.e. the chairman, is obliged to take care that the work in the Assembly is done in accordance with the laws, the positive regulations, or the Constitution. In particular, in the course of a principle debate, a reasonable doubt arises that this assembly will pass a law that is definitely contrary to the Expropriation Act and is also contrary to the Constitution. Therefore, if so, we should wait for the Legislative Committee, which is in accordance with Article 141. The Rules of Procedure should already give their opinion on this legislative proposal, to make clear whether this legislative proposal complies with the existing law. Obviously, the Legislative Committee rejects that. Today's debate is not attended by the chairman of the Legislative Committee and this points to a conscious denial of the fact that this assembly will pass one law knowing that it is the same against the Constitution, the law will vote. So, once again, I underline that this legal proposal effectively determines only public interest, and as a user of expropriation stands for someone who is not listed in accordance with the Expropriation Act as a possible user of expropriation. This means that we do not have two elements, according to the applicable positive regulations, to determine the user of expropriation in accordance with the public interest. Therefore, we are prepared to pass a law knowing that it violates the Constitution. If that's the task of this assembly, I'll leave it to you at your grade and present minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31125	The time used by the parliamentary group is two minutes and thirty seconds. National MP Sreto Peric asked for a word Please don't throw it away. [[The Faith of Radeta, from the place: Can we answer the replica?]] As you can see in the stenogram, it's not a request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's the time of the LDP MP's group, two minutes and thirty seconds. Please wait in line, because I've already read some names. I told you you'd have the right to speak. It read the name of MP Sreta Peric, who is an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. And the MPs who want to comment on the presentation of Minister Petar Skundric will be given the right to speak, of course, but I believe that during this session, MP Sreto Peric has the right to receive the word because he was called. If he wants to wait for his colleagues... Thank you, People's Messenger. The People's Messenger Free Maras, right on the line, then the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31126	I am reporting on the replica to Mr. Minister, but first of all, I must say that you have broken the Rules of Procedure a little while ago, because the Vice-President of the Judita Popovic Assembly has reported to the Rules of Procedure, i.e. to advertise the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31127	People's MP, I now warn you of the respect of Article 104. I listen carefully to every MP, and I ask the service to deliver a stenogram of the presentation of the National Parliament and Vice-President of the Judite Popovic Assembly to determine that there was no request for words because of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, that there was a comment on the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and that the exhibition she used was used to explain the position, what she had the right to do. I warn you, I really warn you that our common right to help each other in the application of the Rules of Procedure is not being misused. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31128	Mr Skundric, I appreciate your good intentions to give answers when we ask parliamentary questions, but I will remind you, on 16 October 2008 is the day I got the answer to the question, right about the oil industry of Serbia and the "Yugorosgas", which I asked you – 48 days after I asked the question. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I asked a question, and you were obliged to answer within eight days, or the Government; if it is official or state secret, then the deadline was 30 days. You are after 48 days and after our insistence... Mrs. Comic was just chaired, and she wouldn't give me a word because I said the answer had arrived. So that's why I'm asking you now to give us the answers to those questions. I'm not asking you to denunciate your predecessors, but, Mr. Skundric, you were the Minister of Energy on 31 December 2008, as well as on 28 February 2009, as you are today. Someone's responsible for the losses at NIS, so you can tell us who's responsible? We don't want you to do anything you think you shouldn't do as a minister. The second thing, what you just said, Mr. Skundric, that MPs will say whether this law is in accordance with the Constitution or not, is extremely unserious. There are no judges among the MPs, there are few lawyers, there are lawyers, there are doctors, there are farmers, there are various professions. The Serbian Parliament's Legislative Committee sits with lawyers, professors of law school. We expect them to answer whether this law that is before us is contrary to the Constitution. You can't leave the MPs, who, I underline, didn't all graduate from law school, and not everyone is involved in the legal profession, to have an opinion on whether it was in accordance with the Constitution. I think that was extremely incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31129	Three minutes and another thirty seconds, given the fact that I had to give you instructions during my speech on a warning to break the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, right to the replica of Minister Petar Skundric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31130	Mr. Minister, I didn't quite understand why, by commenting on my debate on this amendment, you complained about some government you found that didn't do some part of your job. I hope you did not have that remark at the last government of Mirko Marjanovic, who, you will agree with me, was the best government in the newer history of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Skundric, you're a minister and you're part of the government. What the government was before you and she before, it's absolutely irrelevant. If you've found any problems in your portfolio, you've been obliged to resolve these problems so far. You can't just realize that once a government missed something and now you won't say what government it is. I don't know if it's the one you supported or the one you were in. In any case, if you have such objections, of course, you can make it, but you are not the minister to determine the situation and to cry to the MPs over the evil fate of finding something unsolved. You're the minister so that if you see the problem, you can solve the problem. It is expected from every minister, it is expected from each government of the Republic of Serbia. You, unfortunately, don't belong to such governments and I'm sure you're aware of that. Mr. Skundric, when you were talking about the missed construction season, I asked you what construction season would be missed if this law did not come into force on the eighth day, but the first day after its adoption. First, it's completely debatable when this law will be passed. Should I remind you again that in agreement with the President of Parliament, you interrupted this session because the government had something to do with it? You're interrupting it again tomorrow because the government has something more pressing. This leadership of parliament, that is, the ruling majority of acceptances, absolutely in the service of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As the government says, the ruling majority in this House plays, along with the music the government plays. That's inadmissible. What kind of construction season is this? You say you want to prepare this, say, piece of paper, legislative, permits, etc., to begin specific works in March. Mr. Minister, I remind you today is the 23rd or 24th of November, the construction season is at an end. What can you do by March, by the beginning of next season, and how much can it affect whether the law will come into force in accordance with the Constitution or how it occurred to you? It's a discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31131	Three minutes. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. You're using MPs' time? One more time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31132	I'd like a straight line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31133	The right to the replica was used by MP Free Maras. You can use the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31134	It's fascinating that Buddhist calm, Mr. Skundric, which you often show, but it only proves that this school next to Kumrovec was a really good school. You say you can answer anything and you're ready to answer, and you're basically not answering anything. You say, "What does this have to do with this law?" For example, what does the losses and debts in your ministry, measured hundreds of millions of euros, have to do with NIS and "Srbigas" with this law? You're right, it doesn't matter. What does this law have to do with you being accused, say, of conflicting interest? It doesn't matter. What does this law have to do with the fact that you claim that one firm owned by another state-owned Serbian firm? What difference does it make that this company is registered in Switzerland with the fact that it's a Serbian firm? It has nothing to do with the law. But what does it have to do with the law? The Constitution. You're telling us that you would like this assembly and the Legislative Committee to declare the constitutionality of this law. That's nice of you to like. Probably the Legislative Committee or the Government Secretariat said it was in accordance with the Constitution, otherwise it wouldn't have passed the government, but it's a man, the public doesn't know his name. Here on the Committee sitting, I'm only talking about people from the ruling majority, some people who are obviously not quite ready to do what I say is unprofessional, so that something that is clearly anti-constitutional. That's something to be respected. In the end, party loyalty and discipline may win and that expert opinion, we will see it, but we may not see it – there will be a day for voting, we will not have an opinion from the Committee. That's my prediction, because I'm saying they refuse to compromise, so to speak. Then someone will file an initiative to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court will never, or for many years, act accordingly. Why is this happening in your ministry? What are these obligations? Say it once, honestly, and not – I will answer everything, always at my disposal. There's something fat smells and you know it, and even you in the opening statement said that this is on the border, that this isn't exactly... It also says in the government's explanation that this law is proposed because there is no constitutional basis for this company to be built by a master's pipeline, so this law creates a legal basis. I'm afraid that what's happening in your ministry, that compromise of what you, I say, push, leads to the reputation of this country even in the eyes of Russia cannot possibly be... They are against this, and they agree with us, even those parliamentary groups, Mr Skundric, who often defend Russia's interests more here than Serbia. You brought this constitution along with them. Don't let those of us who were against the Constitution defend this Constitution. It's not good for the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31135	Seven minutes is available to the parliamentary group. National MP Judita Popovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31136	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on Article 104, who says that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. It is obvious that the speaker as a MP does not respect the dignity of the National Assembly, since the work of conducting this assembly session knowingly does contrary to the Constitution. Because I just suggested, Madam Chairman, that I print you this article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Expropriation Act, which tactfully states who the users of the expropriation are, who may be the beneficiary of the expropriation. As far as I know, "Yugorosgas" is not listed as a user of expropriation. You said you knew exactly what it says in that article 3. If you know, you know that "Yugorosgas" is not marked as a user of expropriation. If we are discussing in particular today this bill, where it is found to be a public interest of expropriation in favour of Jugorosgas, in which case, by adopting this bill we knowingly violate the Constitution, and you are also aware that it is preparing to pass a law that is contrary to the Constitution. You do not respect the dignity of the National Assembly in this way. Moreover, you deliberately cooperate with the adoption of a law that is in direct contrast with the positive regulations and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31137	One minute and fifty seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's MP, Free Maras, wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31138	I apologize, Madam Chairman, for reporting as an authorised representative, on behalf of the parliamentary group, and Mr. Sreto Peric is before me; I have not called to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure or to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31139	I thank the MP and thank you for the atmosphere of co-operation among members of different parliamentary groups. It's proof that a valid opposition sits in this assembly. Messenger of the people Sreto Peric, then Messenger of the people, Slobodan Maraš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31140	Finally, thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, no one can be happier than the MPs of the SRS when a law in its name has the word "building". For what? Because a relatively large number of Serbian citizens will get a job, on the one hand, and on the other hand, which will finally give those who are connected to the pipeline the opportunity to use it. We are much happier than when in the name of the law we have the words "indemnity", "indemnity of the state", although it is not always something that is very bad. First of all, we advocate constitutionality, legality, and, of course, respect for the dignity of this National Assembly. Mr. Minister, you and your associates are basically trying to be like this, but you're just now in your response to parliamentary questions and comments about this law said that there have been a lot of questions here that have nothing to do with this law. I wouldn't agree with you if I did. On the contrary, all the comments that were heard whether the advertising of the Rules of Procedure, the replica, or the discussion concerning the amendment were also directed at what this law prescribes and regulates. You see, this law has five members, and it is directly based on one member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and on one member of the Expropriation Act; namely, even two members of the Constitution define the matter of this law – the first one, which says that expropriation is a forced removal of immovable property, mainly land, can also be building buildings, in specific conditions. The MPs of the SRS, in their desire to be constructive, suggest that the laws that come here make sense, suggest certain solutions. You don't look back at it. When I say you, I don't mean just you. Perhaps your responsibility in these thirteen years is the smallest, but for 15 months you have been Minister of Energy, it cannot be said that it does not exist, when Serbian citizens know well, we also know that in 1996 a gas pipeline agreement was signed. Thirteen years. There is one practical problem – how can this government, if it has an honest intention, solve problems of the economic crisis? Since there are no more privatisation incomes, they have dried up, dried up, since 2001 the unfavorables are being spent, we are left to become attractive, to create an ambience for foreign investment. It's one of the best ways. But if an agreement is to be implemented after 13 years, what message do we send to the ino-partners? With what seriousness do we accept them here? Not long ago, this law was under discussion in principle. You haven't answered any questions. I want to do it one more time, commenting on the amendment to Ms. Verica Radeta's 5th... You yourself said it wasn't a crucial question whether the law would come into force the next day of the day of publication or within eight days. Does this mean that you have accepted this amendment, or is it just to say something, that you agree with the amendment submitted on behalf of the SRS by Ms. Veronica Radeta? The amendment is extraordinary, not only is it good. The amendment seeks to comply with the provisions of Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, we should not bid here whether it will be the next day or within eight days, especially when we have in mind the provisions of Article 3 of this proposal of the law, where you said that the request for expropriation would be submitted to local self-government within a year. Pay attention and use the party hearing institute when expropriating land; these problems will be resolved more easily and quickly. Citizens will certainly be more cooperative in that case. You said you'd exploit all 0.5 acres. It's not clear to me, the highway is about 166 kilometers long, considering and regionally, how is it only half a hectare expropriation? I don't know what this is about, is there going to be a full expropriation on this part for building buildings, and this is where it's going to be temporary? There are still a few questions you haven't answered. There's no reason for this law. But first of all, you have to send a message from here to those people whose land will be expunged, as well as ino-partners, to show them once and for all that no government, nor this one, which may be the worst so far (not perhaps, but certainly), will no longer play with serious ino-partners and with the need of Serbian citizens to open new jobs and solve their life problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31141	Since the time of the authorised representative, five minutes and fifty seconds have been used. National MP Zoran Krasic wants a word. The Messenger of the People, Slobodan Maras, and the Messenger of the people, Zoran Krasic. I'm just asking you to register. People's MP, Free Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31142	Let me ask you, how much time do I have left and did you count the 17 seconds from now? (President: From the time of the authorised representative three minutes and forty seconds, and five minutes and ten seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Thank you. I have to rely on the exposure of my predecessor and Mr. Ostojić, who said the key thing. Mr. Skundrich, it's impossible that everything we're saying has nothing to do with concrete law. Even this amendment that's been filed. What will happen when the Serbian Parliament votes this law and we apply to the Constitutional Court for the protection of legality and constitutionality and the Constitutional Court says this law does not comply with the Constitution? That's unserious. You're saying the question we're asking you has nothing to do with this subject. How does it not matter? How does it not matter? Last time I showed, or quoted, I gave it to you when we had a session of the Industry Committee, how Jugorosgas was created, which is why it was created, when it was introduced as a mediator, who played a role here. So, "Yugorosgas" was introduced as a mediator in 2006, when Milos Milankovic, who is now the director of "Electro Networks of Serbia". Last week we talked about it, about the loan. He was the director of "Serbigas", and at the same time the president of Jugorosgas, where he had three times the salary. He made a statement, not a statement, signed a letter from Minister Naumov that there was no pressure from the Russian side to introduce a mediator. The mediator is introduced to protect Russian interests, because the Russian firm, as you replied to me in that letter, likes "daughters of companies" to be intermediaries, for various interests. Everything we've been talking about has to do with this law. This company has something to do with what's going on in this country. If your former assistant ministers, if the former directors working at NIS are working now at the firm, then something's wrong, and this firm is an intermediary, this firm has been granted the right to expropriate, or we are passing a law delegating the Expropriation Act. That's what this whole story is about. We ask the Legislative Committee to say what it means, not to transfer all responsibility to the MPs, of course, the ruling majority. It is their problem, but I think it will be on their conscience; not all of them are lawyers and they expect an answer from the Legislative Committee. We messengers expect from you the answer to the questions we have asked. Mr. Skundric, you're the Minister of Energy, who's to blame for all the losses in NIS? I think we need to get an answer to that question today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31143	Since the time of the authorised representative, there are 30 seconds left. National MP Zoran Krasic wants a word. Here you go. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is forty seven minutes and thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31144	I don't think it's necessary at all to explain the Verice Radete amendment, since it's in accordance with the Constitution. All laws enter into force on the eighth day of publication. The problem is that in the original text of this bill in Article 5, it is prescribed that it enters the next day from the day of publication. What the government has given as an explanation of why it is necessary to determine such an entry into force is really pointless, as if the construction season began yesterday, Malten. It doesn't matter for this amendment either. For this amendment, it is much more important that this law represents something that is not special, but precedent, because in one general act, in law, the strongest general act after the Constitution, it individually determines a legal person, it rises in the heavens, and, Mr. Skundric, it is left with a monopoly. What's going on? A state monopoly on the edge of a natural monopoly. How do we fight the monopoly? By suppressing monopoly or by encouraging competition. Is there competition here? It doesn't exist. It can't exist. It shouldn't exist. And how do we stop the monopoly? With this bill you've said everything; there's no possibility of suppressing, maintaining and controlling that kind of monopoly. And that's the main reason I'm being honest. For all liberal societies, it's important that there is an alternative, Mr. Ostović. Because unless there's an alternative, it's considered that society is closed, Mr. Staying. That's the point of our intervention. Not because Zecevic is there, which is Milankovic, who is someone's son who has submitted to the amendments, is now running to Russia; he wanted to be a minister of energy, if he can't already be Prime Minister, etc. etc. Forget it. We're a much more serious party. We don't deal with the family relationships of a family. But the point is, you're setting up something called a monopoly, and you're not giving any instrument how to control it. By the way, this law is not in the control of the monopoly. But this kind of expropriation, which is not an exception, but an exception plus, where you use in the name of a company something that looks like a Russian word, and behind it hides the interests of a whole other group of people... You know very well, Mr. Skundric, where they're all spread out, and about the alternative energy that I was talking about at first; they're everywhere, they're connected everywhere. Why not say the words "energy Mafia", which is a very dangerous mafia, etc. So you just said... You have formally-legally rejected the Verice Radete amendment, but you have essentially accepted the amendment, because you have said that it is absolutely insignificant from the point of view of this bill and what is next, and that is some realization. There is something even scarier that you said – the implementation of this law does not require funds, Jugorosgas has already provided funds on our market. Think about it, why set up some monopoly at a time when everyone's fighting the monopoly? I urge you to support the Verica Radete amendment in the voting day, but I would prefer that this law be returned and that a normal law be made, in which not only interests would be expressed, but also something called constitutionality and legality.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31145	Time available to the SRS parliamentary group - forty-three minutes. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. The parliamentary group is available for five minutes and ten seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31146	Do I have the right to a replica? Mr. Krasic mentioned me. I don't? Okay. Anyway, Mr. Krasic, I'm glad you're a free society company with an alternative. Yes, it's one of the basic liberal principles. This is about something that's fundamental human rights, which is the right to property. Mr. Skundric, you want to explicate the bill in favor of something that is not a state or a state-owned company. It's against the law and the Constitution. Not to mention the administrative transfer, which is (I'm not a lawyer, but I've talked to them) absolutely inapplicable here, is only applicable between state authorities. In any case, be assured that people who will be so unlawfully and unconstitutionally expunged will be sued by the Constitutional Court. Maybe this Constitutional Court meeting won't accept it. Believe me, in the end, it will end badly both in government and in relations with Russia and the Russian partner. It might be good for some group Mr. Krasic is talking about, which Mr. Maras is talking about, which we all know, but I'm not going to deal with right now. Perhaps it is easy for you, as a member of a party who in her past did not "cut" much private property, to propose this law. This is about private property of Serbian citizens who due to Serbia's gasification should be exploited in favour of someone outside. Indeed, your appeal for the Assembly and the Legislative Committee to declare constitutionality is touching, but you are simply not competent, Ms. Comic is the one who could prevent further degradation of parliament. You, ma'am, you know that at one point the ruling majority contributed quite a bit to the fall in the reputation of this parliament by a campaign run in the media, and some others have changed their minds, but the opinion of the Legislative Committee before the vote or during the discussion is something that is necessary. Mrs. Comic, it has never happened that the Assembly voted for the law without the Legislative Committee... It may be, it may become a practice, I don't get into it, but here it is touched by the fundamental, basic human right, in addition to the right to life, it's the right to property, for the sake of interest that cannot be taken under general interest. So gassed is Serbia. This isn't the first pipeline. It's gassed, and when the gas enters the houses, it just varies the width of the pipe. Where did this property go? Where was it taken away? Private companies are shutting down, so there's been no expropriation. This is a law that is obviously due to some haste to someone, even proposed not to take effect in eight days, but right away. Maybe it's a request from some Russian partners, maybe he can't resist them, but, Mr. Skundric, don't tell us how normal everything is, how great everything is. No one gave 58% to a Russian partner, of the countries that co-operate with the Russians in the field of energy; no one wants to allow those with goods to own and over transport. The European practice is that one who produces electricity cannot own a power line, one who has oil, which is Russians, cannot own a pipeline, cannot be a majority owner, because that means knife and cake. Why you've been doing this for 13 years after the concession that Jugorosgas got, it's really not clear to me, it's not clear to the citizens either. In any case, citizens need to know that here they are trying to pass dangerous laws, anti-constitutional and illegal, which will have consequences not only for citizens who will be exploited by the country, but also for this society. Monopolies, at a time when deregulation and competition lead to improvements for all citizens (lower price of service, better quality), are not the way Serbia should go and are not proof of anything called the pro-European orientation of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31147	The time available to the parliamentary group has been used. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31148	Mrs. Komic, I expected you to warn Mr. Ostojić. It's an invitation to Article 104. Rules of Procedure. When I talked about the alternative, I spoke from the point of view of the state monopoly and the monopoly at all, and Mr. Ostojić understood my intervention on the alternative from the point of view of property. Mr. Ostojić, from the point of view of property, in the process of expropriation, because of those changes made during this year, has not been cleared of the possibility of judicial protection and settlement, to establish a fair compensation after the settlement in the out-of-party procedure has failed. I spoke from the point of view of the state monopoly. This is where it's established, Mr. Ostović, the state monopoly. To what benefit? Home-made companies. Why? What's the justice? Some 1996 contract. These are entirely other conditions, other criteria. Meanwhile, many things happened from 1996 to today. In part, you know, even better knows Mr. Skundric, what happened to this company, but it is totally unacceptable to pass the law as an exception to the name and name of the company that needs to do something and that gets the state monopoly. You have no right to do so, this National Assembly has no right to establish a state monopoly. The other thing is that you went to a concession, that you went to other alternative forms, but no, you wanted to humiliate the National Assembly, that using something that looks like a Russian name and a name you use for the purposes of some people around that company, who are the financialists of some political parties, two or three political parties, etc. See for yourself where they play their commercials. That's it, sir. I'll stay. That's why you misunderstood me. So, an alternative to monopoly, not an alternative in terms of... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31149	There's no breach of Article 104. With insight into the stenogram, you will see that MP Zoran Ostojic expressed satisfaction over what you are talking about the alternative, and you were infallible in your presentation about the need for liberal democracy to have an alternative. As a careful listener to both MPs, I have not intervened because neither of you has injured Article 104. Anyone else want a word? Please don't throw it away. I find it very useful to discuss the subject of alternatives and liberal democracy, and I thank the MPs for the fact that they have dealt with the subject with the issue with two different aspects. National MP Vladan Batic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I join the appeal of those who insisted that the Legislative Committee give their opinion, but it seems to me that the minister is a bit of the wrong address when it comes to it. It is a question for the president of parliament or for the chairman of parliament. We cannot act like Alice in a wonder country, for this is a necessary position, or opinion of the Legislative Committee. If this is how we pass the law, it will immediately be flawed, according to the ancient “What the coat of arms is born, the time does not correct. ” We've already had, when it comes to electricity, one game of hide-and-seek. What exactly is this about? About the losses of NIS. That, Minister, should be answered. It's a question that applies exclusively to you, because it's your ingenuity. Let's remind ourselves what this is all about. All the time, at the end of last year, there was talk about the business profits of NIS; billions were mentioned. It's projected in the budget. I'll remind you that two audit houses have been employed, two sides of the auditory house (one of which was hired by the government itself), which indicated that there was no profit speech, but that there were losses. The question is, who's going to answer for it? Why did the government go deaf about the auditory report? Why did she keep that quiet? Does this have anything to do with selling NIS to the Russians? Is it a blurry hunt? What exactly is this about? How is it possible that something that has been repeatedly claimed to be won by several billion dinars in the end turned out to be a loss of eight billion dinars? That's what we look like about this law if we don't have a quantifiable opinion of the Legislative Committee. I ask the question, regarding this previous one, who is responsible and will he who is responsible bear the consequences? Because if everyone's mouth is full of democracy, the two basic principles of democracy are the principle of responsibility and the principle of relievability. When it comes to the NIS business report, it is a wonderful example of these basic principles of democracy being applied. Mr. Minister, I expect an answer from you, and not just me, Vladan Batic, on behalf of the DHSS, but the entire public – why is this public being deceived and who will answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31151	Anyone else want a word? Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Petar Skundric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31152	A few words, and the answer to the question. Today is the meeting of the Management Board of the Oil Industry of Serbia, which discusses the auditor's report. The government will follow a specified report and take the necessary measures, including measures to address the determination of responsibility. I'm sorry, Mr. Marash came out, asked a question about the settlement of the old Russian debt, about the gas. I can tell you that this old debt is tied up until 2000 by an agreement between the two governments on the regulation of the former Soviet Union's obligations, according to accounts relating to trade between the former Soviet Union and the Soviet Union. It's about an amount of 188,000 US dollars. When it comes to the debt after 2000, 29,000,000 US dollars is returned by increasing the price by three dollars in every thousand cubic metres, and will be paid until the debt is settled by 2014. There remained an unregulated question of $30m in debt after 2001. That's the answer to that question, so you don't ask it again and update it, I think I've answered it very precisely. Regarding the findings on behaviour or the sending of messages to ino-partners regarding this project and overall co-operation in the field of energy, I can answer this very briefly – the biggest partner in the field of energy has responded to our forms of co-operation by raising to the highest possible level of strategic and partnership relations between the Russian Federation and Serbia. As regards this law, I would like to say again that it is passed as a special law in accordance with Article 2. The Expropriation Law will allow for the realisation of South Serbia's gasification and the development of certain development projects in this regard. I call upon the MPs to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31153	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 18th point of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE GUAL TRANSPORT OF GASOVIT AND TECHNICAL AUTHORITIES AND DISTRIBUTION OF GUSOVIORS (specifics) Before I inform you of the amendments and reports of the committee, a brief notice, given that work has been extended today, that the session of the National Assembly will be on television broadcast for up to 18 hours and 30 minutes. The total extension time after 18 hours will not be more than 60 to 75 minutes, with some logical interruption, given that many MPs travel, so that they can arrive at their homes and attend the session tomorrow at 10 o'clock. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Radovan Radovan Radovanović, Olena Papuga, Zoran Babić, Zoran Antić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Bozidar Delić, Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica, Saša Maksimović, Milan Lapčević, Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Savic, Petar Jojic, Momir Marković, Goran Mihajlović, Milan M. Nikolic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Zoran Krasic and Mirko Munjic. You have received a report from the Committee on Industry and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we move on to a review of the bill in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the basic rule of writing laws is that legal norms are short, clear, concise, applicable, that actions, if they exist, are further separated from the first member, that it is known what it is, that it is applicable and understandable to all. Not just for the minister, not just for the lawyers, but for all the citizens. When a law like this is written, it's in the law with cartoons or a numerical separation of action. In Article 1 of this Act, where everything is paved up, it states: "This law regulates conditions for safe and smooth pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and distribution of gas hydrocarbons, design and construction, maintenance and use of pipelines and internal gas installations." Under the same hat, you put in the same basket, say, gas pipelines, freeway gas pipelines with a pressure of 50 bars and an internal gas installation, in which the pressure is less than your blood pressure, Mr. Minister. I deeply believe that those who spoke earlier did not raise any pressure, so you will also listen to the amendments to this law. I am convinced that many of these amendments will be adopted, regardless of what the Government has adopted these views and some amendments and some have not adopted. I believe that this Article 1 should have been divided into several members or cartoons, dots or numerically separate actions, because it's impossible as you wrote it. It's simply unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31155	National MP Milan M. Nikolic tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 1a be added after article 1. The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31156	Dear People's MPs, we have before us the law on the transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and the distribution of hydrocarbons. In the light of the law, it is said that the law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons is a regulation that is necessary in order to regulate, maintain and build pipelines in technical terms, and that it should be a legal basis for the adoption of sublegal acts. It is also inevitable, I stress, to comply with our regulations with EU rules, as if we cannot make regulations that are more quality and at EU level. My amendment relies heavily on the amendment of the predecessor of Momir Markovic. I wanted the work to be separated, and for that it has a basis in technical terms, if we look at what pipeline transport is, what is distribution, and what is domestic transport. The pipeline transport is highway lines that are loaded with pressure from 50 bars. They are made of steel pipes and are subject to regulations that satisfy them. On the other hand, we have a distribution pipeline, which is for divorce in cities, these are minor pressures, pressures from 16 bars and there are also pressures that Momo Markovic mentioned earlier. The government has not accepted this amendment for the reasons it states, as Article 1 of this Law has made it clear that this law regulates the conditions for the safe pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and the distribution of gas hydrocarbons, design, construction, use and maintenance of pipelines and internal gas installations. I think it would be appropriate and useful for this to be separated, at least by a new indent, not just this member, because it would be clearer and more celery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31157	National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government accepted the amendment, and the Industry Committee did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. The government did not accept the amendment, and the Industry Committee accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31158	On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. 10) law on pipeline transport. What does point 10 mean? It refers to internal gas installations and reads – gas pipelines, connecting lines, belonging to a prison, regulatory and security armature that starts behind the fire-extinguishing flame of a measuring-regulatory cell or behind the output-assembly water of a measuring-regulatory set on which natural gas is handed over to the customer and, ultimately, with the top of the combustion canal, except for the consumption. My amendment referred to "meer-regulatory" being stuck and added the words "or regulation" and after the words "meer-regulatory" being placed stuck and the words "or regulational" were added. Reason: The internal gas installation is a system that starts at the end of the distribution network, behind a set in which the distribution pressure is reduced to work. It is not mandatory that there is always a consumer meter in the regulatory set. The consumption of energy in large consumers is measured at the very entrance to consumption. The government did not accept this amendment with an explanation that the metric-regulatory cells and the metric-regulatory set represent the place where natural gas is handed over to the buyer, i.e. the place where the natural gas delivered is measured. You have seen that it does not always have to exist and that behind a measuring set of measures, we have measurements on the consumer itself in large consumers, so this amendment should have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31159	National MP Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. which says that pipelines are designed and built in the corridor by a spatial plan on the track which is found to provide safety of pipelines and safety of life and of human health, environment and material goods in terms of natural and working conditions. We think that, in addition to the spatial plan, the words "and the regulation plans" should be added. The government said the amendment does not accept, referring to the Law on Planning and Construction. In fact, in its explanation, the government explained the correctness of this amendment and the need for the amendment to be accepted. You say the amendment is not accepted because the Law on Planning and Construction does not know the concept of "regulatory plans", and then you explain what Article 11 of that Law says – the planning documents are made up of spatial and urban plans, and spatial plans are the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, the regional spatial plan, the spatial plan of the unit of local self-government and the spatial plan of the area of specific purposes. Then you say -- urban plans are a general urban plan, a general regulation plan and a detailed regulation plan. So you yourself admit that you did not write this article in accordance with Article 11. The law on planning and construction, and on the other hand, you refuse to accept the amendment. I ask you to reconsider, or possibly, that the MPs in the voting day vote for this amendment, because this amendment only regulates in more detail what you have provided for Article 3 and does not leave any possibility of speculation or abuse. We Serbian radicals always advocate this, and we think that every legal norm must be concise, precise, clear, that as little as possible leaves opportunities for abuses or, possibly, as popularly said, legal voids, which this Article 3 certainly has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31161	Thirty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Babic, Zoran Antić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kismarton, Bozidar Delic, Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Sasa Maksimovic submitted together. The government and the Industry Committee accepted the amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31162	The position of the Serbian Radical Party is that instead of always saying "minister", the word "minister" should be used because the ministry is a state body, the ministry is an institution, and the minister is only one man in the ministry, the man who runs the ministry. He can't lay down regulations, the ministry's laying down regulations. What will happen when, God forbid, but in a few days, say, Mr. Skundric's shift – the new minister comes and the ministry stays the same. After all, when you lose power soon, so other democratic forces called the SRS will take over, for example, the minister from the SRS will come, but the ministry will always be a ministry. Therefore, Mr. Minister, do not put something like this on your neck, because it will be – it is Skundric's law. You remember many laws that these are the same with which you have now criticised in the coalition – it is Slobodan's law, it is Zoran's law, it is Skundric's law, etc. Let it not be the law of Skundricev, but be the law of the ministry. We have written amendments, but it is understood that everywhere where the "Minister delivers regulations" is written, it should be "Ministership brings regulations", the minister only signs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31163	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31164	The laws are passed by the National Assembly; the minister does not pass laws, the minister can pass a certain act, as governed by the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31165	Thank you. National MP Momir Markovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31166	In Article 4: "The Minister responsible for Energy Affairs (hereinafter referred to as the Minister), according to the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, prescribes conditions for... I responded to the amendment, and I asked for it to first come: ‘projecting, building and exploiting’, and then further as indicated: ‘choice of the pipeline route, location and method of building buildings which are components of the pipeline’, etc. You, Mr. Minister, in article 4, dropped two basic things without which there is no construction of the pipeline – no design, no jobs called construction and no jobs called exploiting this building that was built, in this case the pipeline that was built. In this article you don't see it, or you've dropped the law. I'm afraid by using that maximum – "with dirty water", because you thought the previous law was a little dirty water, you and the child from the trough spilled. It can't be done without these actions. The law can't be applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31167	Thank you. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31168	Thank you very much, Mr. Novakovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, today, in the debate in particular, we are discussing four joint draft laws, to which the SRS Parliamentary Group has submitted a relatively large number of amendments aimed to build on these rather rigid and general provisions contained in these proposals, which our authorised representative, Mr Sreto Peric, gave his general opinion in the context of the debate in principle, which was led about ten days ago in this assembly. With the already common finding that this time the Government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted a small number of amendments submitted by opposition MPs, our parliamentary group will today try to defend these proposed amendments again and convince this slim assembly majority to reconsider them and to adopt in the voting day as many amendments as possible, which, according to us, are very high-quality and logical and meaningful. All four of these so-called proposals. energy laws treat a very sensitive problem, because, ultimately, it is about the personal and collective security of people and all those who directly or indirectly come into contact with the transport of these hydrocarbons, gas and liquids. Therefore, my first amendment refers to the conditions for safe and smooth pipeline transport of liquid hydrocarbons, even more precisely, to the design and construction of pipelines, which are specifically treated by members 3-7. It's a bill of law. I therefore proposed that, in Article 4 following the word "Minister in charge of Home Affairs", a member should be stuck and added to the words "and an opinion of professional services in the field of transport and distribution" so that a member would read in the new version: "The Minister in charge of energy affairs, in the opinion of the Minister in charge of Home Affairs, as well as the opinion of the professional services in the field of transport and distribution of gas and liquid hydrocarbons... “ because no matter how professional and competent the minister is, this is a very complex problem and it is certain that the opinions of technical persons and other experts dealing with this problem should be taken into account. The government has not accepted this amendment. We know that the old proverb says, "It is better to prevent, than to treat," so I suggest that this be reconsidered and that the majority of the assembly in the voting day accept the above-mentioned amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31169	One minute and twenty seconds of Parliament time. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31170	Mr. Minister, the pipeline didn't pass through Serbia yesterday, Serbia has been using natural gas for a few dozen years as energy and the construction of the pipeline is long known, at least to companies, or business experts involved. To be clear right away, this law is passed in order to allow for the construction of the South Stream and all those pipelines that will come from the South Stream, meaning the gas pipelines and the distribution network. It may have been achieved by amending the previous law, which in certain parts was not satisfactory, however, there is one thing you dropped. The Energy Act is a roof law. This law and all other laws relating to mining, coal mines, electricity, related to everything else, must be incorporated into this roof law, the Energy Act. It seems to me that in some (later we will get to it) members of this law feel dissonant tones in relation to this law. As for Article 5, there has always been control over the pipeline, remote control of the pipeline, and it is achieved in a very efficient and relatively cheap way. The problem is the pipeline management, the remote control of the pipeline, especially the remote control of the pipeline as you imagined it. Please, so that the remote control of the pipeline can be placed on the transport system, on a gas pipeline that has one leg or, possibly, that it spreads somewhere, as the current gas pipeline is rising here at Batajnica and one part is being separated for Republika Srpska still for BiH, and the other part continues further towards Paracino, and is too expensive electronics, or pneumatic valves that would have to be used for remote control. It may also be possible for the gas pipelines to be installed and managed from one distribution centre to the entire gas pipeline system; the problem comes from the moment the gas pipeline is separated from the gas pipeline, the distribution network, all the way to the consumer, or to internal gas installations. It's impossible, believe me, I've talked to experts from this area, with experts who've spent the entire working century, it's impossible to establish a centre from which to remotely operate the entire pipeline system. On the other hand, this at least 30%, if not more, would increase the cost of construction of the pipeline. That is why I asked that the words "and management" be deleted in Article 5(1) and that the words "and management" should also be deleted in paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31171	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Zoran Antić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kismarton, Bozidar Delic, Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Sasa Maksimovic. The government and the Industry Committee have adopted this amendment. Amendment to Article 6(1), which refers to Article 15(2), as provided for in Article 15(2). The bill together was submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Zoran Antić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Bozidar Delic, Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Granny, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31172	On Article 7, is that right?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31173	To Article 6.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31174	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31175	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Lightning has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31176	I asked for the words "and with consultation of professional services in the area of pipeline transport and distribution" to be added in Article 6(2) following the words "Minister in charge of Home Affairs". To be clear – Article 6 refers to electrical equipment and installations and in the position of the 2nd member is prescribed in the proposal that the minister, according to the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, prescribes the conditions of design, installation and maintenance of equipment and installations. In the amendment, I ask that prior consultations be carried out with professional services in the area of pipeline transport and distribution. In his explanation, why not accept this amendment, the Government says: “Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Rules of Procedure of Government are prescribed by the authorities to obtain opinions during the preparation of the relevant materials, which are applied accordingly and when an act is adopted by one competent minister, in the opinion of the other competent minister. “ This is a very restrictive interpretation. It is clear to all that there is a Rules of Procedure of the Government and that the Rules of Procedure are certain to prescribe who, when, from whom they seek an opinion, what opinion they seek, etc. However, this is about electrical equipment and installations being placed in danger zones. If the legislator in the draft of this legislative act says that the equipment is placed in danger zones, do you think that one of the ministers will be saved by epoletes or something happens to him if asked of it, or his professional service opinion on this problem? By not accepting the amendment, you will be in a position to put the electrical installations and equipment in place, without having previously been adequately consulted by the profession, to endanger people's lives and health. As much as you care about the lives and health of people, Serbian citizens will show acceptance or non-acceptance of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31177	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31178	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, as regards Article 7, on behalf of the SRS, I have suggested that certain adjustments be made and that the rest of the text be deleted after the word "biogas" is inserted. I suggested it for practical reasons. I would like to point out this occasion, Mr. Minister, you know that Pančev is the most polluted city in the entire former SFRY, the former SRJ and now in the Republic of Serbia. The southern industrial zone, where, above all, Petrochemy and Refinery, which have large pipelines, are tens of miles away, from which are constantly dropping 20-30 years of toxic material, the gases that poison Panchevo... As a result, there are 3,500 people currently suffering from cancer in Panchev. Along with their tragedy, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the health minister have made efforts to make their lives worse, as much as is not allowed to treat the citizens of Pancheva in Belgrade, but must travel to Sremska Kamenica for therapy. Even for some medical services, they have to go from Pancheva to Vrbas! You see, the consequences of the citizens of Panchev are huge; 3,500-4,000 children suffer from respiratory disease. Mr. Minister, you didn't participate, it's not your fault, but it's all the previous ministers who ran your portfolio; it's all those who were ministers, and the current environment minister. Please send an inspection, if you have the right to do so, if you are not expelled from Vojvodina, to carry out inspection in Petrochem, where huge amounts of liquid toxic material are stored in the pools, which are being released, and the pools are not closing. Last year, Minister Dulic pledged that twom euros would be intended for Petrochem to re-emerge those swimming pools that deposit the most toxic and dangerous matter. What do the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry do? They promised to buy some appliances and place them in two places to measure pollution. But Panchevo doesn't have any idea. It is necessary that your inspection, since this law in Article 30... I'm concerned, I can already see, if this law is passed, you've predicted that you'll trust the Autonomous Region to carry out inspection surveillance in the field of energy. I can freely say that this leads, before the statutes and the law on AP Vojvodina are passed, by taking away certain powers from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. See Article 31: “Autonomic province is entrusted with inspection of the territory of the autonomous province. “ As you can see, it doesn’t matter at this point, but it will be said of something else, in relation to the statute and the law. I call on Minister Dulic to fulfill what he has promised the Pančevs, which is that he will take all necessary measures to protect the environment in Pančev and to enable the citizens of Pančev to live normally, although it is known that this industrial southern zone is in a difficult situation at the moment, especially "Petrochemicals". Azotara is already coming out of the difficult economic situation in which it was, thanks to the break of the contract with those profiteers who bought Pančeva Azotar for $13,000,000 and sold it for $32,000,000; its bookkeeping value was 45,000 euros, and they also had goods in stores worth nine and a half million euros. We have been talking about this in the congregation for several years. It's a good thing that contract is broken and it's a good thing that now it's for the workers of Pancheva, that is to say, the workers of Azotara are allowed to earn something, if they can, although they still receive no wages, but some church girl is given to them, at a minimum. Panchevo was a city that had more income than the whole of Montenegro, and now it is a beggar town, 40,000 workers in the territory of the town of Pancheva are out of a job. The environment is polluted. I'm saying this because those who buy these energies must be controlled. I expect that the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Environment will take steps to help the citizens of Panchev to open windows and doors sometimes, not to close as if they were in some chamber, as they were these days. God forbid you came to Panchevo these days; some even prepared to move out of the city. As a result, I believe that inspection is necessary under this law. It takes the citizens of Panchev, because they deserve... Panchevo is also a church of Novi Sad and Belgrade, and that is why it is a butcher, and look what Novi Sad is like – Novi Sad is a big city, and what will be when this statute is adopted! There's still a Turkish kaldrma in Pancheva. But I can tell you, Panchevo never had any special leadership, politically. It's always been up to Novi Sad, Belgrade. They were looking for a chair chair in Novi Sad and Belgrade, and that's why the citizens of Panchev went very hard; they were blacked out because they had bad leadership. But the government of the Republic of Serbia has helped them in this as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31179	Five minutes and fifty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Zoran Antić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kismarton, Bozidar Delic, Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Sasa Maksimovic. The word is Mr. Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31180	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, together with colleagues from the Prosperity Group of Serbia's Progressive Party, I have tabled an amendment to Article 7th of this bill. Namely, the very term “domestic” means adding funds to the characteristic, unpleasant and strong smell of natural gas, biogas and liquid oil gas, in order to determine its uncontrollable emphasis. In other words, the aorisation procedure shall be carried out to determine possible damage to the pipeline. You have provided for Article 7 that the minister prescribes the conditions of designing a system for the aorisation of hydrocarbons, the selection of the means for the aorisation and the manner of the aorisation. It's all right, as it is, and what's right is that you'll be closer to prescribing a system of aorising, selecting the means to be approved, but you're nowhere in the bill, and it's probably not going to be in sublaws either, you don't predict, you don't define the periodicality of regular adolescence. It is logical that the aorisation is carried out after the construction of the pipeline, and before the release of the pipeline into operation, as well as after the investment or havary works carried out on the pipeline. What about the regular controls on the pipeline? When will they be performed? Once a day, a week, a month, when? That's what this bill doesn't recognize or predict. The fact that pipelines will have an aorisation system won't have any effect, because you haven't prescribed a rhythm of pipe control by the aorizing method. That is why I invite you to accept this amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31181	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The word is Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31182	Thank you. I asked that the words “not containing carcinogenic matter and matter dangerous to human health and life” be added in Article 7 of Article 2 following the word “deoration”. It is clear that natural gas, liquid gas and biogas are substances that do not contain a particularly pronounced odour. In order for them to be recognizable, observed, this procedure is being conducted. Enrich them with some matter that smells and then they're recognizable. The means used mainly for the aorisation process is so called. ethyl mercaptan. But I think it's clear to all of us, and that's what analysis shows, ethyl-mercaptan is a tool that contains certain carcinogenic matter and certain substances that are dangerous to the life and health of humans. A much greater weight would have to be assumed by law that this product does not have carcinogenic matter in it. Wasn't the country's country of Serbia overrun by NATO's alliance in 1999 too low-denied uranium? Isn't it enough that generations and generations of young people, as well as old people of Serbia, will have inconceivable consequences in terms of health and life, due to this bombing of poor uranium? Do you think the powers of the younger generation of apriors don't have carcinogenic matter? That they, say, are imported, only for that reason have no carcinogenic matter? I'm sure they have them, and it's clear that it's something special to predict in the law. You're saying it'll be predicted by sublaws. It is okay to predict all other elements related to this, but much greater weight and much greater importance is that in one single sentence these substances will be substances that do not have carcinogenic properties, they do not have elements that are life-threatening and human health. I think we need to tighten the criteria for the aorization. You'll have fewer patients than cancer, and I think that's why this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31183	One minute and five seconds. Minister Skundric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31184	I'd like to point out that we take care when we talk about certain matter that we know it well. I'd say ethyl mercaptan doesn't contain toxic substances, carcinogenics, it's itself toxic and carcinogenic. No, well, let's get this straight, it's important to say exactly what this is about. The regulation must be governed by the standards that must avoid it. Many substances were used yesterday as markers in various processes, and it was not known to have toxic or carcinogenic effects. When one of the substances is found to have such an effect, it is eliminated. So our regulation will take into account the highest standards. This is the essence of the adoption of these regulations or sublegislative acts that are more detailed in this matter. So I'm just drawing attention to how we know this problem, to know what the Mercaptians are. As a chemical technologist, I can tell you that there is no non-toxic substance. If you go too far with certain amounts of sugar, water... If a man drinks more water than the organism can accept, he'll have serious problems. Also, if it consumes a certain amount of sodium chloride, there will be no problem, but if it crosses the allowed limits, it will have problems. This isn't about that. Mercaptans are toxic substances; they contain not some others but themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31185	Mr. Mirko Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31186	Mr. Minister, I'm glad you said that this ethyl mercaptan itself is toxic matter. In itself, it's a matter of some quality that can potentially cause what I've been talking about. I'm sure you know that better than I do. However, I ask that from the point of view of the law this matter be taken more seriously, therefore, to enter into the draft of this legislation something that is terribly dangerous for our population. I said that the country of Serbia is full of toxic, toxic matter, that the country of Serbia has had enough of the poor uranium, which these country's friends have irrevocably thrown around this country. That is why it is very important that this is not only regulated by a sublaw, but that the law states that this must not be used. That's what I'm talking about and I think we understand each other perfectly, except you should accept this amendment and put it into the bill, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31187	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Mrs. Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31188	Mr Skundric, you have accepted some amendments from the SRS MPs who, I would say, are from your profession, and that's good, but I don't know why the lawyers didn't suggest that you accept the amendments that I have submitted, which are freely said to be a good part of the legal and nomotechnical editorial of the law. Indeed, extremely honest and well-meaning, based on years of experience, I suggest you accept this amendment to Article 9. Article 9 speaks of the entry into service of pipelines in accordance with the law, technical and other regulations, and I added that prior authorisation should be obtained, in accordance with the Law on Energy and the Law on Planning and Construction. Your associates wrote that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the construction of energy facilities is prescribed by law governing spatial planning and building of buildings, and according to an energy permit previously obtained, which is issued under the Energy Act. So you wrote in the explanation what I suggest in the amendment itself. Believe me, Minister, if you accept this amendment, you will have a clearer situation. None of those involved in the release of pipelines will be able to abuse what they are going to do, but they will have to make sure that before the pipeline is released there must be a valid permit. This is also regulated by the Law on Planning and Construction and the Energy Act. Why now, when you're passing this law and you're talking about letting the pipeline work, why don't you also write what just explains this legal norm, it's precise and it eliminates any possibility of possible abuse and who knows what else in the work of those who do this job, if they don't have the precise norm that obliges them to do it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31189	Twenty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31190	On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I submitted an amendment to Article 11. Article 11 reads: ‘The energy entity carrying out the activity of the transport, i.e. the distribution of pipelines, is obliged to establish its acts functional requirements, procedures and methods of handling pipelines according to the recommendation of the manufacturer of equipment, as well as the procedure and period of maintenance of pipelines, in accordance with the law, technical and other regulations’. I suggest that this article be deleted. For what reason? This obligation has already been defined by the Energy Act and the Natural Gas Delivery Regulation as an obligation to the Energy Agency, so it is unnecessary to regulate this matter by this law, so that there is no substantiation of this law in relation to the Energy Act. In an explanation of this law, it states that this law was to be compliant with the 2004 Energy Act, but this does not mean that the obligations already defined by that law should be repeated. It is interesting that the government, which did not accept this amendment, says: “Amendment is not accepted for the reason that that substance is not regulated by the Energy Act and the Natural Gas Delivery Regulation. ” The question is, what should we agree with, is the Energy Act, which I think is older, with the Transport Act or vice versa, what is it supposed to be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31191	The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Zoran Antić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kismarton, Bozidar Delic, Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. There's no answer for word. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31192	Mr. Minister, Article 13, says: “The pipelines or parts of the pipelines and their devices and plants that are temporarily excluded from use, as well as new or reconstructed pipelines which are not put into service within the prescribed time limit, can be put into operation after the re-examination, in accordance with Article 9, where you say that the release into operation is carried out in accordance with the law and so on. There are no prescribed deadlines. I asked the amendment to delete that prescribed deadline. The moment when a part of the pipeline or a branch of the pipeline is excluded from use and any repairs, reconstruction, construction, construction, upgrades are carried out, when new releases are made, they must be examined; they must all be examined and, in addition, many other things must be done. I asked the amendment to add the words "and obtaining the applicable authorisation in accordance with legal and technical regulations" after the words "execution". Why? The applicable authorisation is the peak, cap, proof that this pipeline system, part of the pipeline system, some assembly inside the pipeline system is ready to use, that it has passed all those procedures, so, that the examination and everything else has been done, the adjustment, if any equipment to be set up. Therefore, the test is also mandatory when part of the pipeline is excluded for two hours and some reconstruction or any procedure is carried out on it. When it's all over, then you get a useful permit for that part of the pipeline and the use of the license is the crown. I don't see why the amendment wasn't adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31193	National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Mihajlović. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31194	Articles 10 - 14. The draft law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons deals with the maintenance and use of the transport system. In this context, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14, which I propose to delete both Article 1 and Article 2 of that Article. I'll explain myself. First, Article 1 states: “The energy entity carrying out the activity of transport, or distribution to pipelines, is obliged to keep records of the transport and distribution of quantities of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and to provide data from that record within the prescribed time limit to the Ministry of Energy Affairs. “ The reason why I suggested eradicating this article is simple – the Energy Act already provides for the obligation for a special Energy Agency to keep records of data obtained by energy entities, so this would be unnecessary duplication of business, i.e. the establishment of an agency in the agency. That would be extremely illogical, because if we already have one agency that does this job under the previous law, why would it predict a new law? An even weirder explanation of the government's refusal to reject this amendment, which practically disproves itself, as it is said in the explanation that the Energy Act only prescribes the adoption of the energy balance of the Republic of Serbia, not the records. The text goes on to say that data for the production of the energy balance to the Ministry is delivered by the Energy Agency. If these data are to be delivered to the Ministry, why don't they go directly from the energy subject, but must it be through that agency? This is an unnecessary, administrative, complicated solution obviously aimed at homeing various party personnel who probably have some great merits. The second point of view of Article 14 states that the Ministry is closer to prescribing the method of keeping records of the transport and distribution of the quantities of gas and liquid hydrocarbons referred to in Article 1(1). It is also unnecessary for the minister to prescribe a way of recording, because it is already prescribed in the Energy Act, which means that I propose that this member be completely deleted, for those reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31195	The amendments were submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31196	This is an example that writing this law did not take much care of terms, so in Article 15 in three places, in pages 1, 3 and 4, you will find the word “oil pipeline. ” It was probably meant by the pipeline, because the pipeline implies both the pipelines and the pipelines, and all the other pipes that transport certain energies, etc. That is why the amendment asked for the word “oil pipeline ” to be replaced by“ pipeline ” in Article 15, paragraphs 1, 3 and 4. Then Article 15 will have absolute meaning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31197	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Zoran Antić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Bozidar Delic, Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Saša Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31198	Mr. Zoran Krasic asked for Article 16 following Article 2 of Article 3, which reads: "The persons who have acquired professional training and passed the exam under earlier conditions and regulations are considered persons with a professional examination". What's this about? For more than forty years, the pipeline system has existed in the state of Serbia; since the beginning of Vojvodina, and for twenty-two years and in the rest of Serbia. During that time, someone was running this system, someone was handling these gas systems, someone was working on these jobs, someone had to pass a professional exam in front of certain commissions, and the ministerial and expert commissions of companies in which they were working. You cannot now ask a man who is 39 years of employment, works on the affairs of manipulation, maintenance, etc., to come and to the committee educated by the minister, according to the rules laid down by the minister, to pass a professional exam. They must be considered men with a professional exam. The new ones who will work on this new pipeline (many jobs will be and many young people will come to work) will have to take those professional exams, in addition to the qualifications they have. But when it comes to those who have already had experience of 10, 15, 20, 30 years and passed professional exams, it is foolish to ask them to take a professional exam again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31199	The word has Minister Skundric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31200	For the public, and I think Mr. Markovic knows, this does not apply to those people who have passed professional tests on the pipeline; this is about the pipelines, for which so far people have not passed the expert exam. For the first time, it is introduced now and for them, as for all pipelines, and that is why it is particularly emphasized here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31201	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31202	Of all the pipelines, the pipeline sounds nice, we have this piece that we have left since 1916, before Croatia usurped, from Omis on Krk to the border and we have some small pipelines, i.e. a product pipeline between Azotara and Refineria in Pancheva. This law will have the highest application precisely in the gas systems that exist and will be built through the state of Serbia. I don't see what new pipeline we're gonna be doing. There won't be one. Gas pipelines will, this law will be applied for pipelines and should therefore define the name itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31203	Thank you. The 17th amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31204	Mr. Minister, “In the use and maintenance of pipelines can occasionally, in the prescribed places, drop into the environment or burn on the torch only non-toxic gas or liquid... “ etc. Nothing can be dropped around here. That's why there are torches, that's why there are whole systems, when part of the pipeline is immobilized, when it's removed from the material that's in it, how those remains that can't be taken out are destroyed. It can be burned, it can be chemically destroyed, if it's any other toxic matter, any one that goes through the pipeline. When part of the pipeline is isolated, it is mostly burned on moving torches. The gas is too dangerous if you let it in the area. When it comes to a slightly higher concentration, it can be a bad master, if we let it. It must not be in the law to stand so that it can be released into the environment. This law will be applied tomorrow by those who will pass this expert exam, so they will realize that they have the right to release a certain amount into the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31205	Thank you. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Excuse me, Mr. Markovic, I've been watching you, but you've read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31206	I pressed, but he wouldn't... Mr. Minister, I asked that in Article 24 after the word "internal gas installations" – the minister prescribes a way of designing, building and changing internal gas installations – put an end to the point, while the rest of the text is deleted. For what? What about internal gas installations that don't change their capacity? Will you prescribe design, construction, changes for them, etc? What about the internal gas installations that are already being exploited? Will you also prescribe for them a way to upgrade and possibly intervene on this pipeline? It is necessary to define the whole process, the whole process from design, construction to testing, obtaining permits, letting in internal gas installations work. I think that's part of the misunderstanding. The internal gas installation is the property of the user. Everything else can be owned by a distributor, owned by a transporter, owned by a state at the end of the line, but the internal gas installation is the property of a user and the state will, if it does not act legally, then have very little opportunity to react. It seems to me that this law in some of its members has gone to another extreme and that the state is trying to put its paws on that section of the pipeline.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31207	I don't think we're listening right now. I read that the Government and the Industry Committee have accepted this amendment. It's Mr. Markovic's right to strengthen his reasoning. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31208	In Article 25(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The draft law provides that the maintenance of internal gas installations may be carried out by a legal entity, an entrepreneur, or by a customer, if it has an appropriate device and equipment and at least three employees who meet the conditions laid down in Article 15(3) of this Act. Article 25. The proposal for a law in paragraph 2 shall be governed by the maintenance of internal gas installations, and it shall be said that the maintenance is carried out by a legal person, by an entrepreneur or by a customer, provided that it fulfils certain conditions; therefore, if it has an appropriate device, appropriate equipment and if it has three least employees who meet the conditions laid down in Article 15(3) of this Act. We asked for attitude 2 to be included here. In point 3 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following entry is added: We asked this employee person, according to attitude 2, to have completed the seventh degree of professional training, to be an engineer. Since these persons are working to maintain internal gas installations, we believe that maintenance will be much more quality if the person referred to in Article 15 is included here. Proposal of law, graduate engineer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31209	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Member of the 27th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31210	Article 27 says the minister prescribes conditions and method of choice, installation, testing and release of spending. We believe that the conditions of installation, interrogation and release of consumers must be defined by a special regulation and should be done by the ministry because the ministry is the authority of the state administration, as regulated by Article 136. That is why we have proposed to delete this Article 27. The government did not accept the amendment because the material regulation (the proposal of this law) must contain a legal basis for the adoption of a sublegal act, and the Energy Act did not consume regulation. We did not say that this law should not, as a material regulation, contain a legal basis for the adoption of a sublegal act, but we said that sublaws should be passed by the Ministry and must be on the scale of the Energy Act and in accordance with this law. They're very interesting these government explanations. In all, this is already the third amendment I'm talking about, each time the government's argument is just a confirmation that the amendment is better than the proposed one. The only thing I don't understand is why it doesn't end up being accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31211	Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Mr. Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31212	This member is contradictory of the Energy Act and the Natural Gas Delivery Regulation, since there is a clearly defined obligation to verify documentation on the correctness of internal gas installations. The internal gas installation is the property of the user. If it's an internal gas installation in the company, the plant, then it owns the plant and owns the internal gas installation. I was a short time explaining that amendment you've already adopted said how far they've reached the obligations of the transporter, the distributor, and where the customer is bound. In releasing internal gas installations, a useful and building permit must be obtained. In order for a construction permit to be used, all previous actions, including an internal gas installation, must be completed. The building permit is also the last documents to be put into operation. You predicted that an energy entity (it could be a distributor, a transporter, it doesn't always have to be a distributor, or a contractor) would check the documentation. The documentation check is carried out by the contractor in the construction of an internal gas installation; the documentation is being checked by the one who will give the applicable permission; the energy subject, which is in the final line of the distributor, who buys gas from the transporter, still sells to the general consumption through internal gas installations, does not have to control this. In any case, the correctness control is binding for whoever built the internal gas installation and for the gas installation owner himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31213	Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Zoran Antić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Bozidar Delic, Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31214	In Article 34(1), you provided that a fine of 100,000 to three million dinars would be fined for a commercial offence by an investor having a legal personality, so you listed the situation here, so: if it does not mark the pipeline route; if the pipeline system does not equip the remote control system; if the electrical equipment and installations do not comply with the regulations; if it does not carry out its examination in the course of construction and before the pipeline is released; if the pipeline is not released in accordance with the law, technical and other regulations. So, you predicted that in these five cases the investor would be responsible for the economic offense. We're thinking that investor works only invests works. So it closes the financial structure. Is that right? That's what you've been saying in your explanation why you don't accept this amendment. It may occur that the investor is not also a contractor, and in this case we believe that the investor should absolutely not be held accountable for this economic offence, if it has a legal personality and if these conditions have been met in these five points. Therefore, there may be a possibility that the investor saw the contractors only at the time of the conclusion of the contract. Is that right? It is simply the contractor who has technical equipment, personnel, expertise, etc. to do all of this from these five points that you're prescribing here. Therefore, we believe that here should be an exclusive contractor, not an investor. The priority should be what the profession prescribes, it is clear, that from the beginning, marking the route of the pipeline, until the passage into the work of the pipeline would be adequately done, according to regulations, by profession. Then it's clear who has to answer there. It can happen, I say, that the investor doesn't even see that route. He's just gonna sign a contract with this, he's not a contractor, and why would he answer? I think this is meaningful and should be accepted. I'd like the minister to explain a little what the investor would be responsible for if he just invests and doesn't perform the works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31215	National MP Momir Markovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Mr. Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31216	Here, Mr. Minister, we come to what I said at the beginning. I said with one amendment, we'd try to discuss it. It's about remote control and control of the pipeline system. Point 2) says - the fine will punish the investor if the pipeline system does not equip the remote control and control system and the connection system, in order to achieve safe and uninterrupted transmission of information relating to their use and maintenance, etc. First, if this 34th law member is adopted with all five points, then you can immediately send a criminal report against, say, Boris Tadic and the state of Serbia, because the state of Serbia will be an investor in one part. You wrote here – the investor will be punished, and the authority in that investor, in the legal authority, is the Prime Minister, so you will take the 100,000 out of Boris Tadic's pocket. The investor does not necessarily need to be the one to use the pipeline, maintain the pipeline, etc. A particular problem represents this very point 2). There's been surveillance so far, but management, Mr. Minister, is extremely expensive. It can take a master's route; the moment you encounter the first separation of the gas pipelines or the distribution grids, then there, at that hub, you'll have to form new centres. What do you mean by management? So, one moment from a centre, say from Belgrade, you can press the button to close the valve in Horgos or Paracino on this master gas pipeline. Pneumatic or energy valve, whatever. The moment you enter the gas pipeline, which spreads literally like a tree, you will have to set up a valve on each corner, and on each node a new control system, or for the management of the gas system. Extraordinary expensive equipment. The Italian firm Annie tried to do it, so it turned out to be expensive. Today, the gas system is being controlled from the centre, so you get, say, downtown in Belgrade and temperature, and pressure, and flow, and consumption, and the amount that goes into any of the divorce pipelines from the master's pipeline, and everything else. So there's no excuse for highway pipelines, there's no gas pipelines; and there's too many expensive toys to burden tomorrow's users with the team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31217	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic to Article 34. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31218	On the proposal for a law on pipeline transport, I submitted an amendment in front of the SRS to Article 34(4), in the sense that it was deleted. This point is – if during construction, and before the pipeline is released, it does not carry out its examination. What's wrong with that? The test of the pipeline or part of the pipeline shall be mandatory and shall be carried out only after construction and reconstruction, immediately before release into exploitation. It's a technical obligation and that's what people who do tech know. There is no point in examining the part of the pipeline, the artatur and the accompanying equipment during construction. During the pre-working study, the study report, which is a permanent document, shall be drawn up. These studies are done by professional people, who have been verified for this. This matter is regulated by energy laws and fire protection. The examination and release of work is exclusively the obligation of the contractors and distributors, not the investor, who does not necessarily have to be a performer or distributor. So this wants, as the predecessors said, to shift the focus of responsibility and expertise to those who know it, who perform the works and those who have the appropriate licenses and exams to deal with the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31219	National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Michaelovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31220	The amendment I have submitted is in fact a logical continuation of the amendments that my esteemed colleagues Mirko Munjic, Momir Markovic and Milan Nikolic have explained, and at the same time it is a logical continuation of the amendments submitted by our parliamentary group to Article 9 of the bill we are discussing today, because this member says that the release into the work and examination of pipelines is carried out in accordance with the law, technical and other regulations. This member is completely undefined. What are technical and other regulations, we can only speculate, and you see, Article 34 point 5) says – a fine of 100,000 to three million dinars will be fined by an investor for a commercial offence if the release into the work of the pipeline does not comply with the law, technical and other regulations. An even bigger, further confusion brings in the government's explanation why this amendment is not being adopted. It says that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Energy Act and the sublaws adopted under this law are not governed by these issues, but it is necessary to bring a criminal provision to some degree of prevention. Well, it's also clear to the layman who's not a lawyer that a judge has to judge by law. I would ask Mr. Minister a logical question – how can a judge pass an appropriate verdict, in this case a fine for something that is not punishable at all by any member of the applicable law? The only logical explanation of this amendment would be that the same one has to be deleted, because in itself it is contradictory.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31221	Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31222	Article 34 is one of the members found in Chapter IV and constitutes criminal provisions. This Member is specifically talking about fines which will be punished by a legal person for a commercial offence if it does not mark the pipeline route; if the pipeline system does not equip the remote control system; if the electrical equipment and installations in the danger zones are not carried out in anti-explosive protection; if it does not carry out its examination in the course of construction and before the pipeline is released; if the pipeline is not released in accordance with the law, technical and other regulations. Our amendment intervention is that this group of criminal measures should be subject to and if they unauthorizedly release the pipeline system into operation and exploit it. You said, Minister, that you would not accept this because the proposal for a law is point 5) of Article 34 unless the release of a pipeline is carried out in accordance with the law, technical and other regulations. Of course, we saw it standing, that a fine was intended for it, but, Minister, we suggested – if you unauthorizedly let the pipeline system work and exploit it. It's not the same. It's one thing if he doesn't let the pipeline work in accordance with the law, technical and other regulations, and the other is if he does it unauthorized. They're completely different consequences and different causes. We certainly think this amendment should be accepted, well-intentioned again. Again, our intention was to have precise and precise standards in this law, but you obviously won't, and there's nothing we can do about it, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31223	National MPs Zoran Babic, Zoran Antić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kismarton, Bozidar Delic, Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Sasa Maksimovic submitted together to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31224	Article 35 also refers to criminal provisions. We suggest that one correction be made in this article. In the opening sentence of Article 35(1), the words ‘transport to pipelines’ should be deleted, i.e., if there is a leak on the installation already carried out, it should be the responsibility of the person who distributes, not the energy subject. This is, in some ways, the logical continuation of the amendments that we have submitted to Article 7 of this bill, which prescribed the obligation of natural gas, liquid oil gas and biogas for prescribed consumption types to be approved. Ororization is the obligation of a distributor. If we add to this one transitional provision that has been given here, that within five years these systems must be equipped with a special system for remote control and control, it obviously imposes one additional financial obligation on the energy entity involved in this type of activity.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31225	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Zoran Antić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Bozidar Delic, Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Saša Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Zoran Antić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Bozidar Delic, Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Saša Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Radovan Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Industry Committee accepted the amendment. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31226	On the proposal for a law on pipeline transport, I have submitted an amendment to Article 42 in the sense that after the word “treasury” the word “transport” is added. What's the point? To understand that, we need to understand what the pipeline system is. This is a broad term and it represents a system of multiple pipelines that are connected into a technical and technological continent that serves to transport and distribute liquid, or gas-carbons in a given area. Since this is a broad term, the rationale of this amendment is contained in the following – the proposed solution is obliged by entities engaged in pipeline transport to the bus transport pipelines of devices and remote control and control equipment, while this obligation does not apply to divorce and distribution gas networks. Due to the technical inability to introduce remote control on distribution networks, it may be possible to prohibit the exploitation of the distribution network, gas pipelines, devices and equipment by means of strict application of this law. At the same time, remote control obligations are released by the owners of internal gas installations. The technology has progressed today and remote control can be done everywhere, however, with these small installations, distribution gas installations covering both apartments and houses, it is difficult to achieve this, especially in situations where these installations are already in operation, when all that construction work is done. At times when new installations are being built, it's possible to do so, but I think it's a collection and a burden that will pay for those who use gas. The gas at this point isn't as cheap as it used to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31227	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Petar Škundric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31228	It won't be a closing word, just a few sentences. I think it's very good that we have thoroughly searched the draft of this law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and distribution of gas hydrocarbons, which regulates the conditions for safe and smooth pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons. This is particularly important in the period ahead of us, because we need to realize big projects, but it's also important from the point of view of the functioning of the system that we have now. Therefore, I call upon you to give support to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-23-0.u31229	Thank you, Minister. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This is what we've done today's work. On the continuation of this session and the debate on the 19th item of the agenda, the draft law amending and supplementing the Mining Act, you will be subsequently notified by the president, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Tomorrow at 10:00 p.m., we'll continue to work on the call you received, the new session. Thank you for your cooperation.
