ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13962	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 92 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Given the electronic voting system, it is clear that there are more MPs in the hall, which I remind you of Article 222 and the obligation to determine the quorum. Paragraph 1 and 2 of Article 222 states: "The MP who is on permanent duty at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to attend the session of the National Assembly when determining the quorum, as well as during the session. "The Members of the People of the House of First Instance, who are unjustly absent in determining the quorum or during the work of the National Assembly session, will be deprived of the status of Members of Parliament in permanent work in the National Assembly. "Please, when we see that we have a quorum in the O.R., it's also on the electronic voting system. National MPs say it is only an impression that there are more than 82 MPs in the National Assembly. It's not an impression, because it shows that there are no cards and there are people's MPs. I find that a number of Members of Parliament knowingly violates the Rules of Procedure and refuses to apply Article 222 paragraphs 1 and 2. Since we don't have enough numbers on the electronic voting system, or one-third is not present, I'm taking a break... The electronic voting system now shows 84, which is enough to work with, and we will continue, by establishing the quorum, although according to the Rules of Procedure it is not regulated, slightly longer than the usual 15 seconds. I have been informed that there is traffic, or weather, and that some MPs are therefore minimally late. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milica Radovic, Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac, Aleksandra Ilic and Zeljko Tomic. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND ADDITIONS OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (addition) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13963	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable fellow Members of the People, Honored citizens of Serbia, I advertise the violation of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure and I ask for a notice from you, Vice-President, since counterpart Konstantinovic is the chairman of the Administrative Board, and I, as a member of the Administrative Board, do not know on what basis, and you are from the same parliamentary group, I think you could give me a notice. My motive to report here is a statement by Mr. Konstantinovic, chairman of the Administrative Board, broadcast last night on some central media. On the occasion of the failed session of the Administrative Committee, for which we know which agenda should have been, in fact, the top topic – the mandates in the National Assembly, Mr Konstantinovic gave one, for me, a completely incomprehensible statement. As we all see here, and the media, he's been gone for days, and he's the president of one of the most important committees. I'm asking, do you know where he's been sitting for days and why the Governing Board isn't sitting? Does he assume his private gigs, as a lawyer, work in the National Assembly? Can you give us a notice, me and the public, does Mr. Konstantinovic even know who is a member of the Administrative Committee, which members of the parliamentary groups participate in the Administrative Committee and who are the heads of the parliamentary groups? He said, "Mr Markicevic, head of the SNS parliamentary group, did not attend the board of directors." It may be appropriate for me, due to some alleged ratings, but the NS parliamentary group, whose member I am, has a boss who is very pleased, and I think Serbian citizens as well. Let us know if the president of such an important committee – the Administrative Board – knows where he is, especially because among the ruling coalition members there are MPs who, I suppose, are proud to claim that they know so well that they lie about the lie and the polygraph agree. That's what some of them said. I ask for a notice, or answer these questions, because they are necessary for my work. A joke aside, unfortunately, it's all true what I said. I ask all the responsible, of the National Assembly, of all the heads of the parliamentary groups: on what basis is the representative of the ruling coalition president of the Administrative Committee, when was it agreed that the seats of the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee and the Administrative Committee belong to the opposition?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13964	People's MP, I can only answer part of the question where you claim that Nenad Konstantinovic is gone for days in the National Assembly. In order for something to be missing for days, it has to be more than 24 hours. Given the electronic record and listing of the presence of MPs, you will see that it has been less than 24 hours since the MP Nenad Konstantinovic was in this room and then in the building of the National Assembly, so your question is rhetorical. Everything else, and you said yourself, now without a joke, I quote your exposure, are more or less rhetorical questions. If you consider that an insult, an insult, the fact that MP Nenad Konstantinovic, by your claim, has added to another MP the position of the president of any party, then you must establish it either on the Committee, or as a violation of the Rules of Procedure during the session of the Committee. National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). I ask you that both the next speaker and everyone else who takes the floor by getting it on the basis of Article 100, make sure that they give an explanation of what the procedure and which member is injured during today's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13965	Without prior warning, Madam Vice President, since we have the same function in the Assembly, and I know the Rules of Procedure very well. I'm looking for a notice, by the way. 225 and 226, of the Cooperation Council with the so-called The Hague tribunal, given the fact that yesterday, with only seven hours left to carry out witnesses to the indictment of Prof. Vojislav Seselj, our president has been suspended for an indefinite period of time, to the indignity of the entire domestic and world public who holds to international law and who is aware that he has been a political prisoner for six years and that, during the exercise of witnesses, interrogating more than 40 witnesses, Prof. Vojislav Seselj has shown that this is a quasi-sud. Yesterday, we had the opportunity, or last night, to hear on all the media, Mrs Comic, probably you, like you colleagues from the ruling coalition, a shroat of the Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, in which they say they are amazed and that this will make further co-operation more difficult and increase the mistrust of Serbian citizens towards the quasi-sud. We have been telling you for years that public opinion research shows that at least two-thirds of Serbian citizens do not believe that it is a court. It is the political institution of America, NATO, the EU, so it is good that I ask this question today because Olli Rehn is coming to visit you, among other conditions, to point out to you a condition closer to co-operation with The Hague and delivery, as they say, of the remaining indictees that The Hague is pursuing, above all, General Ratko Mladic. Is it, and that's my question, that it's normal for one such statement in two sentences to react so-called. Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal? Please, if you can, just a little quiet down, because that fire and fire in such a serious situation, and Professor Vojislav Seselj didn't go there to defend himself and the volunteers of the SRS, but the whole of Serbia and the entire Serbian people, and your children, and the generations that are just about to be born here. Is that normal, when you mean, I'm setting up a Council for Co-operation with this quasid, that Ramush Haradinaj killed 11 witnesses, that he committed a direct murder, which has recently been established by representatives of a foreign intelligence service, along with Hashim Thaci, hundreds of Serbian civilians, our innocent countrymen, and that today he's been at large, while Professor Vojislav Seselj, because of his idea, the prisoner, has been here for six years? Because of the idea that we Serbian radicals are fighting for, I believe, and millions of Serbs, not only here in Serbia, but across the planet, which is that we have a free country, a country in which we will live and edit our own democratic system, to fight for our values. Dr. Vojislav Seselj is the defendant of this quasi-sud. Although I don't think I'm going to get any different answers from that chubby statement,... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... I'm still asking that question. I will use, in the end, Mrs Comic, not using a pay phone, but because of the heroism of our president and all the radicals who support him, because of all the patriotically defined Serbs, that today I congratulate our radical glory, as well as all the Serbian radicals, to all those who remain consistent with the ideas of great Serbia and to support Dr Vojislav Seselj. (President: Four minutes. ) Long live Dr Vojislav Seselj, lived SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13966	I ask the MPs who receive the word on the basis of Article 100(1) to respect the three-minute provision that is intended for word injury procedures, because it is necessary that we can justify ourselves when we ask for the word to talk about injury procedures. It can't apply only to others, and the rights are our own. The time available to expose the infringement procedure, or to hurt a member of the Rules of Procedure, is three minutes. I ask you in those three minutes to conjecture your exposure to the moment when you noticed that there was a breach of procedure, and I ask the MP Natasa Jovanovic not to interfere with me in holding a session, that is a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's not helping, it's distracting. It will not be tolerated because it is a disrespect of the National Assembly. The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13967	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 1 and to Article 226. Rules of Procedure. Of course I'll explain this relationship in the course of the exposure. I quote Article 1: "This Rules of Procedure regulates the organisation and work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the way in which the rights and duties of Members of Parliament are exercised." What you are trying to do by proposing amendments to the Rules of Procedure is the harshest possible way to violate the rights and duties of Members of Parliament. Why did I tie this to Article 226? Because the essence of which is why you want to change this Rules of Procedure, which is precisely Article 226, which is used by the MPs to inform the public of all current events that are of interest to the citizens of Serbia. The abolition of this possibility would indeed be the harshest violation of democratic principles in this House. Yesterday's event in The Hague is evidence that if you had already adopted this Rules of Procedure, you would have made it impossible for us to further explain to the citizens of Serbia, those who did not follow the transfer from The Hague to The Hague last night, that something incredible happened yesterday in The Hague. The public of Serbia has been informed that the trial of Serbian Radicals President Dr Vojislav Seselj has been suspended indefinitely, and we will try today, during the day, to explain in detail what it is essentially about. Since I have called on Article 226, I would like to ask Mr Rasim Ljajic and the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Given that in their statement, they had never made any remarks that communication with the UN tribunal's representatives, which they called good, in the sense that any possible witness was threatened, or that in any way threatened, the question to Mr Ljajic – did he officially refer to The Hague tribunal as a public statement to Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13968	People's MPs, Article One, is not the basis by which you get your word, and then you have an art-based exposure. 225 and 226. The right to receive a word on the basis of Article 100(1) and to be reasoned pursuant to Article 1(1). The 225th and 226th is a silent agreement on the use and abuse of the member, which was made, within the framework of the parliamentary group presidents, and in this assembly's meeting, therefore, President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, as well as President Oliver Dulic in the previous assembly and President Predrag Markovic before him, with MPs – will be given the right to speak on the basis of an article. 225 and 226, regardless of what, formally, this member stands in the work of the Rules of Procedure – rights and duties. These are members from 221 to 231. One of these members is also a member of 222. The SRS parliamentary group very openly believes that Article 222 does not have to apply and that the political position is that it does not have to participate in the establishment of the quorum, because there is, too, a political agreement, because of the hope and desire to create some minimum consensus between the opposition and the ruling majority in this institution, whoever the opposition is and whoever the ruling majority is. Very often, art is abused. 225 and 226 just to take time, which is one kind of obstruction, which is legal and legitimate. In me, as People's MPs, whether you chair or not, you will always have a protector of obstruction as a means to achieve your political goals, but what happens today and yesterday is obstruction for obstruction. So, 110 reports by the Rules of Procedure yesterday, 110 days ago, without any other purpose except to avoid a debate on the agenda. It's part of a silent agreement. Then the false violation of the Rules of Procedure and the demeaning of the National Assembly in the presentation is to explain by using an article. 225 and 226, based on Article 1, because it's not. He is the result of the practice in this congregation, which proves to be bad, because he completely stops any other co-operation, except for the co-operation that has been achieved in that we agreed to do so. They shall use 225 and 226 regardless of their rights and duties, and not the part of the Rules of Procedure on which it is possible to obtain a word under Article 100, because the procedure has been violated. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and gets word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13969	Dear fellow Members of the People, as deputy head of the Parliamentary Group, I would like, on the basis of Article 104, first of all, to address the President of the Assembly, and to all of you, because I do not accept that what we are doing is obstruction and that this is not working. The assembly's working. No one's obstructing anyone. If someone is obstructing something, then the parliamentary majority is obstructing this parliament by not solving something that has been in the assembly procedure for a month, which needs to be resolved before the committee of directors. We can call this obstruction, because it has never happened that such a single item of the agenda is found in front of the Administrative Board without the Administrative Board calling for a session urgently and that question is resolved. That would be obstruction. Second, the DOS, today's ZES, has been obstructing Serbia for eight years in various ways, passing laws at the will of Brussels and the European Union. Whether this is what Serbia needs, time will show, or time already shows and Serbian citizens feel very good about it. Madam Chairman, you can often say that we use this speaker for political tyranny, a political story. You've forgotten yourself, we're politicians and we're here, it's true, we run politics. We're not government officials, we're nobody's employees. Maybe some are officials of some foreign agents here, so they have to do as they're told, especially these new Atlantic stars, but we feel like politicians and we have to run a policy that we've got citizens' trust. It is interesting, Madam Chairman, that this parliament has never, or even at a time when Vojislav Seselj was on a hunger strike, dealt with this issue and did not stand in defense of the fundamental human rights of a Serbian citizen in front of such an institution, so let it be an international institution, which everyone today claims is not formed, of course, all those who understand it, by a competent authority, which we do not have to listen to so blindly and which does not have to be that carrot or that stick that we are constantly threatened to join the EU. As you can see, The Hague tribunal will complete its work, but then this Olli Rehn, who is coming today, and Kacin, the other day, also say - the Statute of Vojvodina, as it is, is a condition for EU accession. So there is no end to this conditioning, and we here need to be more aware of anyone else, to be up to that moment, to make clear about all these issues, to make our point and to make it clear to them - we no longer agree to any blackmail. Every citizen of Serbia is worth more than the EU. Thank you, and I'm sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13970	There is no violation of Article 104, except that in your presentation, you made the truth that I have ever, at any time, told a MP, at any point, that he is holding political burdens. You can, by looking at the stenogram, whenever you want to look for evidence, you won't find it. What I'm doing is warning the MP that when he gets a word in Article 100(1), at least 15 seconds from the time he is at his disposal to explain the injury procedure, and nothing more. Please keep in mind the truthfulness of the facts we present behind the speaker. This pay phone is a place of freedom of speech and we all have to defend it. There is direct proof that, as I say, I have never questioned any MP, while I chaired, and even as I listened, I have not disputed the right to political speech and political stance, nor will I. That's the essence of Parliament. As for the second, possible untruth, and under Article 27 and Article 1, I can only suggest to the SRS MP group that he attends the meeting with Commissioner Olli Rehn. Make sure the information you've provided is correct, that it's a new condition. From what I know, and it's incorrect, but it's best to look into the eyes, face to face, to check what you think is a condition that is set and not. National MP Zoran Krasic came forward, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and he gets his word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13971	Of course, it's article 27. Rules of Procedure, not the part concerning the care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, but the strict respect of the Constitution and the law. When I say Article 27. Rules of Procedure, I don't mean anything personal, Mrs. Comic, that you are an exclusive culprit or someone who violates that provision. In fact, that provision is being systematically broken with us, and I would now point to one case why I consider it. Yesterday's statement by the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, in addition to a few things that can be said to be correct, to potentiate the protest that the National Council does not accept that human rights are being violated by Vojislav Seselj and his right to defend himself, gave one credence of information, and that information would have to be extended for Vojislav Seselj, but also for the National Assembly and all MPs, because Vojislav Seselj of the National Assembly went voluntarily to The Hague on 24 February 2003. What's this about? This is the first time that one of the authorities, although the National Council is not a state body, has made it clear in this co-operation with The Hague tribunal, there has never been a problem with the prosecution's witnesses in the case against Vojislav Seselj. That's what the National Council said. I believe that the National Assembly is obliged to request full information from that council, that both the MPs, our and the world's public, learn the real truth, that there are no threats, no intimidation, there is no possibility that this case, in terms of witnesses, may be compared to some of the cases that were previously in The Hague. No one would normally think of doing anything to those witnesses, because even if they said "good afternoon", it would be interpreted in The Hague in a completely different way and that would make Vojislav Seselj's position more difficult. I am taking this opportunity and calling on the president of the National Assembly to provide complete information, and for the sake of the Rules of Procedure, and for our public, for the sake of the world's public and those in The Hague, who obviously have some elaborate system to end this case, because they, in a criminal and legal sense, lost it. Yesterday, the D.A.'s office admitted that part of the indictment was dropped in connection with Zvornik. The pure forgeries tried to turn it into the truth, and they didn't get away with it. I think we need to raise our voice, because of our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13972	There is no violation of Article 27, nor did you give a clear explanation of what an injury to the procedure would be. The word is by MP Srdjan Spasojevic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13973	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honored Citizens of Serbia, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Articles 225 and 226, and there are injuries to Article 104. The appointment in this way of this session, that certain members of the Rules of Procedure are changing, is indeed scandalous, inappropriate and totally unacceptable. This session could not have been scheduled in this way at all, because Article 161 knows exactly what can be scheduled by emergency procedure. I think that more MPs warned, counterpart Batic also spoke about it and cannot understand how the ruling coalition behaves when the breach of the Rules of Procedure is evident, and then we are told in opposition for days that we are obstructing the work. I want to remind the citizens of Serbia that there is a order of things and procedures. The Constitution obliges the adoption of a law on the National Assembly, and then, within 30 days, a new Rules of Procedure. There is also a working group for the National Assembly Act, Mr. Novakovic is the president of the working group, as well as a working group for amending the Rules of Procedure, led by Bosko Ristic. Suddenly, ad hoc, we get to do something, change something, and then we ask the question, why do we even have to keep working in these working groups and what do we change? Some parts of the Rules of Procedure need to comply with the Law on the National Assembly, they need to move into the Law on the Assembly, and then we get something that obviously bothers the position, some members who want to change in this way. That's why you can't work here this way, why you can't accept something that the task force has been doing for three months. Of course, the situation we have is unacceptable. It is unacceptable that, if we are already talking about the Rules of Procedure, a member of the Legislative Committee is not present, or chair of the Legislative Committee, it is unacceptable that the President of the Administrative Committee is not present. What appears for 15-20 minutes is not the essence of things, these are the topics of the agenda. So it's mandatory for these people to be present. Serbian citizens should know, I said, Mrs. Kolundjia. We have a situation where the chairman of the Administrative Committee, because of his deconcentration, makes such a mistake, as Mr Markicevic said, to declare him the president of the SNS Parliamentary Group. That's what this is about. So there's a lot of problems. I think another problem needs to be solved. If this task force works, there must be a restriction and a chairman, regardless of who is there; if we MPs are limited to a new proposal for two minutes per amendment, then the chairman must also restrict himself in his explanations to the new rules of procedure, otherwise we will have less time for those who submit amendments than the chairman who gives great explanations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13974	The chairman would be delighted if he didn't have to give any explanation, but during the session, it is such that the right to give a word under Article 100 is unhindered and that my duty, by the same article, is to give an explanation. There's no damage to Article 104 as you've stated. Part of the argument that would relate to a breach of procedure – if the Constitution commits, the Constitution does not commit to deadlines, only commits to the adoption of the law and I am here with you in agreement. It has already been explained several times that these minor amendments to the Rules of Procedure are without any influence on the work of a working group that brings new Rules of Procedure and Working Groups working on the draft Law on the National Assembly. So they are in the process just to make it possible to pass the Law on the National Assembly and it would be possible to bring in a new Rules of Procedure, because reality is denying us that, by this work and by this Rules of Procedure, it is possible. National MP Vladan Batic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13975	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday I tried twice to point out the provision of Article 98(2), and today I propose once again to take a break, because it is obvious that we cannot get out of this maze until this famous session of the Administrative Committee is held. Have the head of the SRS Parliamentary Group come out, or his deputy, and tell them to agree to work on the agenda until there's a session of the Administrative Board. Someone will say it's blackmail, it may seem to me to be blackmail, but we have to be rational – whether we can work or we can't work, not act as parliament. Let's be honest, what's going to happen today to start working on the agenda? We know it's gonna be the same as yesterday, as it was the day before yesterday. So we agree to participate in this theater of absurdity. One more thing, since this is an ongoing topic, is in Belgrade today, Olli Rehn. One of the priorities in his talks is reforms in Serbia. When it comes to reforms in Serbia, judicial reform in Serbia is a priority. That's really a priority. Only effective and swift justice is true justice. But after what happened in The Hague, it really seems to me that our judiciary should have a role model in The Hague, and what kind of role model is that? What's that efficiency? Since I've been involved in politics, I've been a political opponent of Vojislav Seselj. I think of his policy all the worst, and that's one side of the medal, but if someone is tried for six years by an ad hoc international criminal court, or a tribunal formed by a Security Council decision, which should be a role model for national judicial institutions and national courts, whose decisions could be a source of law, and after six years you are in a position to interrupt or suspend the proceedings, what kind of justice is that? I don't follow the trial, I don't know if there's a responsibility or not, I can't imagine what the decision is going to be, I'm not talking about it at all, I'm talking about the procedure, I'm talking about the procedure. For if they say, "Our judiciary is late, and our actions last for years, so who will be his role model?" The Hague Tribunal? That's what Ollie Rena needs to be distracted. I'm sorry about the time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13976	I appreciate the suggestion of a break and consultation. Several times it has been said and several MPs have most constructively submitted the proposal. It is simple, however, to assess, and on the basis of Article 27, that the session is going on as it is going on, because all possibilities of agreement have been exhausted within the framework of the president of the parliamentary groups or any agreement on any special application of the Rules of Procedure. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13977	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 103, and I think that all the speakers that have reported to the Rules of Procedure have actually violated the provisions of Article 103 because they are obliged to speak about what is the point of the agenda. Exactly what Mr Batić said in the first part of his presentation shows and justifies all the reasons for being on the agenda today – amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We have a Rules of Procedure that is unspeakable, we have a practice that is and what has already been mutilated and we have a Parliament where someone can go out for this pay phone and say, well, radicals won't allow it. Is it possible there's a parliament where someone, breaking the rules of procedure, can not allow parliament to do the work that we're all here for? I call for the respect of the Rules of Procedure, and I call for us to return to the agenda. There's no excuse for someone setting the conditions for something to end at some point, the way he thinks it should end. Otherwise, this parliament won't work. Jobs are done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, committees are working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and decisions will also be made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This does not give anyone the right to, at the plenary session, today, when we have a topic that is very important, it is important for everyone, it is important and for the future work of this Parliament, it considers the subject irrelevant, because it considers its group interests more important than that. That's inadmissible, and please, I call on us to respect the Rules of Procedure, to discuss what we have on the agenda today. The Committee will work and finish its work, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and that must be no excuse or justification to block Parliament's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13978	I thank you for this invitation and for your business. When it comes to a call to Article 98(2) for the chairman to take a break or a meeting, I can make my own decision. It's up to all of us to decide whether or not we're really going to work on the agenda, not just me. National MP Dragan Stevanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13979	Mrs. Comic, I've called to advertise an injury. 27 and 104, which regulate the work of Parliament, i.e. the application of the Rules of Procedure and the maintenance of order. I believe that these two provisions of the Rules of Procedure have been violated, and this morning, and yesterday, you, and just now the president of the ZES parliamentary group. At the beginning of this session, about 10.15 hours, when you were unable to provide a third of the MPs present, you gave a lecture, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that it is our obligation to give the quorum because we are in a working relationship, or already those in a working relationship. I can understand that's what the Rules of Procedure predicts. Yesterday, however, you sent a message of a completely different content to the members of the Rules of Procedure that regulates the work of the Committee of Parliament. It seems to me that that's when you said that you went so far as to say that the MPs of the majority are not obliged to give a quorum in the work of the board. The same Rules of Procedure regulate the work of both this committee and this body, or the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's incorrect that you use the position you're in right now and that, sitting there, you're guided by the principle of double arches. That's one thing. Secondly, I think that you and Mrs. Hope Kolundji, and yesterday, indirectly, spoke about a strategy, the tactics of the SRS Group of Representatives. The SRS parliamentary group is acting and acting in accordance with the rights given to it and provided by the Rules of Procedure, which you Draconically want to change. You won't be able to stop us in any way, either you or anyone else. These stories of tactics and strategy, I think they are very incorrectly placed from that place, just when MPs who do not belong to the SRS Group want to point out to you the problem that weighs and burdens the work of this Parliament. Our behaviour in this parliament is a response to a strategy that has been defined, whether at Andric's wedding, or in Kronska, it is quite irrelevant, but this strategy implies the withdrawal of the mandate, the introduction of a Dracon's Rules of Procedure, the attempt to abolish television transmissions by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and, ultimately, as part of the whole strategy, now the end of the process of trial for SRS President Vojislav Seselj. I call once again on you to respect the place where you are, not to apply the policy of double arches, and those who are guilty and responsible, which does not directly refer to you, for what is happening in this House – not to share lessons about efficiency and accountability in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13980	People's MP, no injuries, no rank. 27 is not 104. I listened very carefully to your exposure and your explanation. On my personal behalf and on behalf of all the chairmans, I express my deepest gratitude for allowing bad practice in this House to stop now. So at the beginning of the quorum, I read Article 222. I didn't teach any lessons, nor did I share MPs with the ruling majority and the opposition. On the contrary. The People's MP throws - it's yesterday, we'll come by yesterday, and I'm grateful for that, because together, you, as a representative of the opposition, I, as a representative of the ruling coalition, will make this parliament work more efficiently now. Article 222 is one of the members of the section of the Rules of Procedure – the rights and duties of the Members of Parliament, where they are also located. 225 and 226, for which the agreement, in practice, past the Rules of Procedure, found that they could be applied during the session of the National Assembly, such as the agreement, in practice, found that Article 222 would not be applied during the sitting. Article 222 reads: "The MP on permanent work at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to attend the session of the National Assembly when determining the quorum, as well as during the session. The Members of the People of the 1st Chamber, who are unwarranted when determining the quorum or during work at the National Assembly session, will be deprived of the status of Members of the Parliament at permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia." It's not a lesson, it's not addressing the MPs of the opposition, it's a member of the Rules of Procedure that regulates the behavior of all of us. The second part of your presentation was about quoting one of my explanations yesterday, that MPs were not obliged to give most of it. If you make an insight into the stenogram of yesterday's session, you will see that this is part of the answer, the explanations I gave to the president of the DSS Group of MP Milos Aligrudic, who claimed to be a pay phone that the MPs of the majority were obliged to give the quorum. I said it was incorrect, referring to Article 222. It is a practice that we all agreed to together during the term of office of this assembly, during which the President of the Assembly was Oliver Dulic, during which the President of the Assembly was Predrag Markovic, because it was a test whether the parliamentary majority was responsible enough, a voluntary test that we voluntarily agreed to. You won't find such a commitment anywhere in the Rules of Procedure. So there are no double arches. It has strict application of the Rules of Procedure or has no strict application of the Rules of Procedure. I repeat, yesterday's response to MP Milos Aligrudic was in line with Article 222. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which I have read to you. The practice that only the ruling majority gave the quorum did not produce results, nor did it build trust between us. Practice to give a word based on an article. In 225 and 226, she didn't give good results because she didn't build trust between us. From this moment on, thanks to you, it is good that this is happening, in practice, by joint work of the representatives of the opposition and representatives of the ruling majority, the MP who asks for a word under Article 100(1) and calls for an article. The 225th and 226th won't be able to speak, because we won't apply the double arches, because we'll all strictly respect the Rules of Procedure. So there are no injuries to the member, and yet another thank you for a reasonable, reasonable explanation, so that such decisions may be made. People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13981	Dear fellow Members of the People, I was inspired by the President of the MEP Group of the ZES with my view to going out for this pay phone and protesting sharply, using the advertising of Article 104 because it severely violated the dignity of the MPs, above all, the opposition political parties, and I personally feel hurt. Here's why, because of the double arches that DS has through its entire political action. At one point, she felt that she should not participate in Serbia's political life at all and did not participate in the work of the 90s Assembly. Then, in 2006, she left Parliament at one point, dissatisfied with her status as an opposition political party. Again, in the 1990s, when the local self-government law was on the agenda, they submitted 1,500 amendments. I know I found them at the Ministry when I was Minister of Local Self-Government, and I kept it as a rarity in the Ministry. I hope he's safe now. So these were the mechanisms of their opposition action. That's when they blocked Parliament, when the law was to be passed. That was considered legal. Watch out, then, in that so-called totalitarian regime. Imagine yourself, gentlemen, what is the situation in the country? If all the media weren't under the control of the government and the tycoon, perhaps the MPs of the opposition wouldn't have had to say everything they had to say about this pay phone, they might have found another window in the world. In the 1990s, in this totalitarian regime, most of the media was under your control, you had local authority in most municipalities. All those media were yours, you could talk whatever you wanted, and you were back then making so-called here. Obstruction, and I don't think it's obstruction, it was your legitimate right. How did you forget all that? How did those who burned the congregation forget to do so, and now speak politely about some European values? I don't believe that these are very European values, and perhaps they are, those who ran crisis headquarters, beat people who are in charge of certain institutions and certain public enterprises and, in general, businesses. You who have passed such destructive laws, as you have brought upon the order of Strasbourg, expect us all to be silent, to talk to you in gloves, and say, "You are wonderful, you are golden, we have nothing to blame you for." For a month, there's something that the board needs to solve. It's something normal for you. It's not normal for us, because when something like that shows up by the parliamentary majority, it's on the agenda the next day. You want us to get over it. He can't. We only advocate respect for the Constitution, the law, the fluids of parliamentary democracy, and we don't let it collapse, because we've been building it for 18 years. (President: Time. We didn't whistle, we didn't bang on pots, we didn't walk in Belgrade, we didn't tear down Belgrade windows, we didn't burn down the Federal Assembly, you did all that, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13982	There is no violation of Article 104, nor did you explain how during the procedure that member was injured. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13983	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not about who has the right to do what, and in what period the rights seemed one way or another. I don't want to go back to a time that you're so happy to mention as the happiest moments of democracy, because in that case I'd have to talk, really, about all the bloody and tragic results of that time, which I don't want to. At the same time, I don't want to, absolutely, talk about how whoever takes democracy and who thinks democracy applies to it more than to others, whether it's in power or whether it's in opposition. So, you measure democracy towards yourself and try to single out as much as you think it belongs to you, so when you're in power, then you prescribe democracy just for yourself, and when you're in opposition, then democracy would be to abuse itself. It's just not democracy. There, of course, we'll never agree. What is important when you already mention these thousand amendments, I want to tell you that then the government responded to the legitimate right of MPs to submit amendments – by grouping those thousand amendments into three groups all grouped together. Just so we understand what it looked like. So if you're already trying to say that it was very democratic at the time, to a legitimate move by the opposition at the time to point out the sinister consequences of a law, which turned out to be, indeed, to be ominous, the government answered so. What we want to give you now, and to the entire public of Serbia, is not that you do not have the right to use those rights that are prescribed for you – you do not have the right to abuse them in order to achieve some of your goals, to blackmail, to ask for democracy to continue to apply further to you than to everyone else together. It can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13984	There was no breach of Article 104, nor was there a strict explanation of the member's injury. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1). People's MPs sometimes don't hear through the microphone what the MP who comes out says, which member is being called upon. There are several MPs, from various parliamentary groups, who, coming to the pay phone, say that to the chairman, do not want to appoint other MPs, and the chairman, me or my colleagues, we mean as if it were said for the speaker, formally, in the speech. If it isn't, then in the third minute I ask the MP just to say a member, nothing more. Excuse me, MP, on hold.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13985	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I'm surprised the SPS MPs didn't react to what Mrs. Nada Kolundzija said, because those "bloody times" refer to a time when the SPS was a key link between political authorities in Serbia during the 1990s. Mrs. Kolundjia, let's get back to the start of this parliamentary crisis on September 2008. The Parliament's crisis began by stealing the mandate, or by stealing, more specifically, the blank resignations and statements by the SRS MPs to make their mandates available to the Serbian Radical Party. The protagonist of the theft was former head of SRS MP Tomislav Nikolic. At that time, like today, we asked only what is ours, so that the electoral will of citizens is respected, after all, that the practical situation in Parliament corresponds to what it says on the official website of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is that the SRS has 78 mandates. There is no statement asking the SRS MP to allow the SRS to have 85, 90, 130 MPs in the Serbian Parliament, etc. We only asked for as many mandates as we had for the results of the election held on 11 May. Then you of the DS made an innocent look on your face. What can we do now? Do you have those resignations? You don't. Well, what can we do about it? So when you give us the papers, in 24 hours we'll have that problem solved. That's what you said. That was said by the then vice president, and the current chairman of the Administrative Committee, Nenad Konstantinovic. Mrs Kolundzija, on January 19th, today on February 12th, it has been almost a month, we have submitted three resignations from former SRS MPs and their statements to make their mandates available to the SRS. Then you, Mrs. Kolundzija, or your chairman of the Administrative Board, started the 34th session of the Administrative Board, which had 10 points of the agenda; you ended only the first, you immediately interrupted it. The 34th session was scheduled to continue yesterday, which was not due to Mr Konstantinovic's explanation that there was no quorum, although the quorum was not needed, as the debate at the session that began may take place regardless of the number of MPs present. Then yesterday we got, which is amazing, Mrs. Kolundzija, you may not be a lawyer, but at least you should know the procedure, the explanation of Nenad Konstantinovic that will be scheduled, imagine, the 36th session of the Administrative Committee, which will have, as the only item of the agenda, the issue of mandate. Now imagine, the 34th session has started, it's not over, in the meantime it's the 35th session, you're about to begin session 36th and you haven't even finished the 34th session. Then Mr. Nenad Konstantinovic said... . (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm finishing up, Mrs. Comic, if you'll just give me a few more seconds. So then Mr Nenad Konstantinovic said he would take off the agenda point – the matter of mandate, from this 34th session, which is not possible, because the agenda has already been voted. The agenda of the session which has already been established cannot be changed. Therefore, you, Mrs Kolundjia, are responsible for the situation that exists in Parliament. I leave Tomislav Nikolic completely out of it. He's a child of Boris Tadic, Boris Tadic invented it, it's your fault... (President: Four minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... for the situation in which the Serbian Parliament is located and if Parliament is blocked, it is blocked by your will.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13986	People's MP, right now it's you and me, you've been talking for four minutes. There is no violation of Article 104, nor is there any justification for the violation of Article 104 during this session. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13987	Dear Chairman, I am reporting on the basis of Article 103, and I call on the Members of Parliament to discuss the subject on the agenda, because that is what Article 103 obliges us to do. I just want to say that you, Mr. Martinovic, have just confirmed what I'm saying. So, you're confirming that you're blocking the work of the Assembly, because you have unsettled accounts with your party friends this morning. That's what I'm saying, but it's about you not having the right to do it. You abuse one correct agreement that existed in this House, that some other topics and other issues open up, to launch some initiatives, and thus bring to an extremely unequal position all other MPs. You are blackmailing the entire Serbian Parliament, blackmailing all of Serbia for one dispute that you yourselves are guilty of. We didn't choose Tomislav Nikolic as the presidential candidate, we didn't choose Vukic as the best candidate for mayor, you chose them. In the meantime, having quarreled and differed, it absolutely does not give you the right to blackmail neither this assembly nor the citizens of Serbia, so that this dispute of yours will be resolved as you would most like it to be resolved. As far as we're concerned, we don't care how he's dealt with, it's just not our business. We're not taking part in this on anyone's side. Believe me, as far as I'm concerned, you're the same to us. So there's no special difference for us. What I'm trying to say is that you have no right to blackmail the Parliament. As far as the board's session is concerned, you may be right. Mr Konstantinovic's intention is based on the importance of the points on the agenda of the Administrative Committee, which, indeed, we believe is to open a serious debate, because it is a matter of spending state money and money on Serbian citizens, which are sometimes clearly spent without adequate decisions, that they have been spent past each control and beyond any sense of responsibility and morality. We've found this situation and we want to draw a line, we want to see what's wrong with the rules, so that such a practice can be improved. This is a very important topic for us, which we believe are interested in having all parliamentary groups participate in its debate and adoption. Because of the fact that the only important topic for you is the three mandates, and to run over all these other topics, Mr Konstantinovic offered that this session should not be completed, that only this point should be put on the agenda, related to the mandates. But if you claim that this cannot be done legally, then the Administrative Board will continue its 34th session, discuss all the points of the agenda, make all the important decisions and thus respect the Rules of Procedure. No one's idea was to disrespect the Rules of Procedure. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13988	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. I'd be happy to apply Article 103, but for that, I need the cooperation of all the MPs. I cannot apply Article 103 nor make any remarks because MPs have a strategy to, using and misusing other members of the Rules of Procedure, not allow the debate to begin on the agenda point. Excuse me, MP, for waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13989	I accept your apology. Madam Vice President, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I call on Article 226 and I will be brief, just a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13990	People's MP, 226 is not the basis for a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13991	I need a message.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13992	I made it very clear in the dialogue with MP Dragan Stevanović, art. The 226th and 225th are in the work of the Rules of Procedure - the rights and duties of the Members of the People, and cannot be the basis for receiving the words. That is what MP Dragan Stevanovic and I agreed on. Thank you. Please return to your seat. You have the right to seek word as a representative of the parliamentary group. National MP Miroslav Markicevic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13993	Thank you. I wanted to say that what we heard here from Mrs. Kolundjia is nothing new for the citizens of Serbia, nor for us MPs. You must understand that there are MPs, on occasion from New Serbia, who want to work. The fact that you're talking here all the time that the Assembly is blocked, all of Serbia sees it and knows it. What are you going to do? You run the Assembly, you run the state, you run the government of the Republic of Serbia. You keep saying that. Everyone now, and the sparrow on the branch, clearly this suits you for something. Why isn't there a chairman of the Administrative Board? You're accusing the opposition of not working, of not coming. We hear once that a minority is obliged to make a majority, and that's what you should do on some draft committee. So, don't repeat, what you said, Mrs. Kolundjia, here five minutes ago, that's what we've been listening to for 48 hours. Are you aware of where we live? How do citizens feel in Vojvodina and Kosovo? People strike, some are hungry in this Serbia, unlike those of us sitting here. Do you think they're satisfied? We know the assembly's blocked, so they say they're blocking it themselves. What are you going to do? You're just saying that here. You've been talking to us for two days now, and we've been living like owls in the sand, in virtual Serbia, in celestial Serbia. Where do we live? Is this the Assembly? Stop this disgrace and shame here, so that the citizens of Serbia no longer look. Create consultations, have a Assembly or no, or schedule elections. Let the citizens choose better, both from your side and from our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13994	A member of the Rules of Procedure, People's MP? You spoke less than three minutes, so we didn't arrive in the third minute to exchange information about which member of the Rules of Procedure you consider to have been injured and not, because you didn't give an explanation for what the infringement of the procedure was. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13995	Dear Chairman, I'm reporting on the basis of an article. 103 and 101. Mr Markicevic, I understand the dissatisfaction of many MPs in this room because of this situation. I have to say that you're right when you claim to want to work on the agenda, you're showing it by your behavior and proving it. But what you're really referring to is what we want to break as a practice that we've found here -- that someone here sets out a request, which has nothing to do with law, has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure, has nothing to do with what someone has the right to do, and then let's say, let's see, let's agree somewhere else, and we're giving solutions that are completely beyond what's allowed. That's exactly what this is about, Mr. Markicevic, and that is why we cannot do what you are now suggesting we do. So we can't agree to blackmail achieve goals that are group goals, individual goals, which have nothing to do with citizens' interests, and then to meet those blackmails by offering something they like to gain. Mr Markicevic, that is why we want to break the practice we have found and that has led to the fact that the rules here are not respected, that it is all a matter of agreement and even respect for the procedure. Procedures exist to be respected. We can negotiate how to edit procedures, how to change them, how to coordinate them, make them more accessible to everyone, but we can't negotiate whether to respect them or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13996	National MP Miroslav Markicevic has the right to replica under Article 101, as a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13997	Although the head of our parliamentary group has entered at this time, please let me say in 30 seconds. Mrs. Kolundjia, I can trust you as a man, and do you realize that my honesty and honesty are being misused and that you are continuing this race. I was very specific and clear: stop this, stop watching Serbian citizens, schedule consultations and tell us if there is a Parliament, or if it is not there. This isn't the Assembly. I ask of you that the members of the ruling coalition at the head of the resolution committees in the National Assembly, sit first in the chair of the Legislative Committee. We are talking about the Rules of Procedure, and this is the most important law for us Members of Parliament. He's not important to the citizens. Let the chairman of the Administrative Committee come by, and we'll ask him which parliamentary groups are even participating in the National Assembly. Call him; he's in trial, he's a lawyer, he's pounding money somewhere. The people don't pay him for it. Let him come here, sit in the front row. Where are the other leaders of the ruling coalition, to explain to the people what we represent here? You may think that as a member of the opposition, it is my responsibility to accuse you for days. The people will come, and they will drive us all together with sticks, and they will not care about who the government is, or who the opposition is, because we don't do what we're paid for here, because you run this state and the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13998	Ambassador Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u13999	I'm advocating a violation of article 27. I know I'm out of my mind, because I'm sure you'll say there are no injuries. So it's about how you run the session, Madam Chairman. Sometime around 11.07 a.m., whether it was 30 seconds sooner or later, she received a word, based on article 100, Mrs Nada Kolundzija, with something I would essentially call a replica in relation to the previous presentation of MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The woman said everything she had, I don't go into the detailed content of what she was talking about, she came down from the pay phone, you said there was no breach of Article 104, and you continued to work. If you will, please, it would be very good to do so from now on, you said you would not give the MPs the right to speak of injury. 225 and 226. I can actually agree with you here. The meaning of the provisions of Art. The 225th and 226th is not that we are reporting for word at any moment, claiming to have been injured by the Rules of Procedure. That's right what you said, it's true what you were talking about a certain practice, but the practice of running the National Assembly over the past few years has shown that the Assembly is able to pass over 300 laws and that it works uninterruptedly, and your practice over the past five months shows that the Assembly is unable to work, that same practice. Then we have to ask ourselves, what is it? Is it possible that the same practice, whether it is correct or not, but a uniform practice, leads to the desired result in one period, and to unwanted effects in another? I'd say it's about the very conduct of the session, the way the National Assembly is managed, the way the ruling majority refers to the opposition and what kind of atmosphere is created here. Of course, we're all here to wonder, but the ruling coalition, because it's legitimateized as ruling, has that kind of obligation. If you are already acting unilaterally, or you want to do so, or you are in favour of unilateral treatment and strict respect for the Rules of Procedure, then you should have warned Mrs. Nada Kolundji, as you have warned me so far about the x-way, to specify a member of the Rules of Procedure that I consider to have been injured. If Mrs. Nada Kolundžija is not obliged to specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who she considers to have been injured, the stenograms exist, it is all written down, and we will see, and I even warned at the time when it was and who was the previous speaker, and after that was Mr. Martinovic. So, Hope Kolundzija spoke between Mrs Pop-Lazic and Mr Martinovic, it's true, it can be easily determined. So let's be consistent here, and then remind Mrs. Hope Kolundji she didn't call on the Rules of Procedure. I'm talking about article 27 right now, and I think that's what hurt him. I wish you wouldn't do that in the future. If you can't give the word per article. 225 and 226, and I actually think you're right, no matter what we all used it for, then I don't see why you're acting like this. If you think that by changing your Rules of Procedure, you're going to solve something like this with this, whatever you do and whatever Rules of Procedure you're going to impose on us... (President: 3.30 minutes. )......................................................................................................... And you'll do it anyway, you won't solve the problem. Thank you, and I apologize for the time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14000	There's no violation of Article 27. You probably missed one part of the session where I explained that there are MPs who, without a microphone on, tell me which of the members of the Rules of Procedure are being called. It is a lucky coincidence that MP Milos Aligrudic has the custom, which I respect. Given the stenogram, when you asked for the right to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it will be seen that you do not mention a member of the Rules of Procedure, and that you have received the word, because I have chaired and without microphones involved. You usually say, "Art. 27, 100."or "27th and 104th." That was also in this case, you just missed to hear it happened already during the session. When I say that Article 104 is not injured and that it is not justified, I say to every MP who essentially only mentions a member of the Rules of Procedure, and not to give an explanation, both Hope Kolundji and anyone else. People's MP Velimir Ilic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14001	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to the floor because I believe that the dignity of the Members of Parliament has been injured, because we sit here for days and do nothing. Many of us are being attacked by the opposition, and we will not allow any democratic principles to be violated. That is why we are insisting that what is undemocratic does not pass in this Serbian parliament, which we all proudly want to say is that the democratic parliament is a serious state like Serbia. Therefore, I ask you from the ruling coalition to respect that people's saying, "Breeding sheep and fleece bothers." He has found you a problem with the Rules of Procedure to adopt European laws, and you have no European law. Here, bring one today to read it, let's see what it says. I ask you to withdraw these violent amendments to the Rules of Procedure and continue to do as it pleases, and we will make sure that when these European laws come here, as soon as they are adopted, as is the case with the Serbian Parliament, as we have adopted 300 laws in previous times. It will happen again if you from the ruling coalition get serious, if your government is a serious government, if it delivers laws in time, if you first agree on the law. You can't find a solution to the Duke's status. You just don't know what you want, and you're in the corner. Now you're entertaining us with changes to the Rules of Procedure to buy time. Then you will entertain us with the Statute of Vojvodina. Are these the European laws that are necessary for Serbia to enter Europe? You find something that irritates MPs, something that causes great damage to Serbia. I don't know what bothered you about the law that defined the status of AP Vojvodina and that you're having fun now, in the biggest economic crisis, in the big problems of the state, in the problems from which you don't know where you're going and where you're going to, to encourage it now. I can't understand that you have now insisted on changing the Rules of Procedure, in such a bold way. We are for the new Rules of Procedure, for the Law on the National Assembly, for the commission that does so, to get it out in the regular procedure, as it is appropriate, to adapt to the new constitution, and there you will have the maximum support of all of us from the opposition. I want you to solve some problems. Why don't you schedule the Administrative Board? You didn't give a quorum to the board of directors yesterday. Why did the ruling party, DS, not bring members of the Administrative Committee to the session? You are required to secure the quorum. Why are you distracting us, and why are you causing conflicts instead of solving them, and why aren't you solving any problems? Problems accumulate from day to day. I don't know what you're thinking. How do you expect to get out of this situation? (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. ) Therefore, please sit down, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you agree. There's nothing you can do at the vote, and you expect us to help you. We will help for the citizens of Serbia, but for you, for God's sake, at this point, maybe not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14002	The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The MP pointed out the violation of Article 104 did not explain the breach of the procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14003	Dear Chairman, I'm reporting on the basis of Article 103. Again, I would like to move to the debate on the subject on the agenda, which is the Rules of Procedure, the decision on amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I think what's going on in the O.R. right now is a cause, but also the reason why this topic is very important and why it's important that we discuss it, let's see if there's anything that can fix this text, in the common interest. I just have to answer that the question of the statutes is constitutional obligation. So the Constitution has prescribed that this act must be passed and it is not about someone's whim to deal with issues that are not, for God's sake, important without dealing with issues that are more important. It is a constitutional obligation and that is what your coalition has declared one of its greatest political successes. We just want to respect that Constitution and do everything that's come out of it. The truth is, perhaps, that some previous parliamentary majority has made much more of an invisible deal than by respecting the rules. That's why we want to end it, because democracy and the rule of law don't rest on invisible deals that are traded, we don't even know on whose behalf. That is why we want to change the rules of procedure, because only they guarantee that, if we respect them, the processes we are conducting will be transparent and in the best interests of the citizens of Serbia. It is precisely because some invisible arrangements have been managed during some periods of this assembly that we today, on the agenda, or on the agenda of the Administrative Committee, have costs that show all the unreasonableness of what was happening in this Parliament, invisiblely and completely away from the eyes of the public. Maybe it was a way for this parliament to be more efficient, because everyone found some interest in letting Parliament work. Democracy is not about having someone satisfy their interest and letting processes run. Democracy is when the rules of procedure are respected, when nothing happens outside the public eye and when there is responsibility for every decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14004	In order for a member of 103 to be applied, or there must be co-operation and awareness of the rules of application of Article 103 during the session, or that the chairman does not allow the MP, who wishes to do so, to receive the word and, by Article 100, to speak of a breach procedure. So, first of all, obviously, it is not possible, and the latter is not possible because I have no right not to apply the Rules of Procedure in the work which says that the MP has noticed that there is a breach of procedure and that he is looking for a word based on Article 100(1). The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14005	I wanted to replicate Mrs. Nadia Kolundjia. It is true that there were invisible agreements, that there were votes from Bodrum, that were voted from various resorts, resorts. It is true, gentlemen, that you from the ruling coalition were not present, but we who sat here know that everything was fine because we agreed, both position and opposition. To this day you have not made clear where you were, where you stayed, how you voted, and what you did. That's your problem. We're now asking to introduce order. You cannot change some of the Rules of Procedure in the way you think it can, violently, without agreeing with the opposition, without agreeing with parliamentary groups, by disdaining MPs. We are asking that the committee appointed to amend the Rules of Procedure do its job, that this be adopted by Parliament, that the debate be opened, and that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure will be made to the law on the Serbian Parliament. It's a perfectly regular process. This ad hoc change, stripping, we're not gonna let it happen. It can't be done like that and it's not democracy. Don't tell us about democracy, please, you're taking us, with your behavior, into total anarchy, into big trouble. We don't want that. We want Serbia to be a democratic state, to be a democracy and to respect the decisions of the majority. Why didn't you respect it when this parliament voted the Gas Agreement, with 214 votes, but you from the ruling coalition began to tear it down immediately? Why are you now breaking the Excise Act, which was brought here in Parliament, to court some of your friends, so you're asking them to come back? Why? Because what you want isn't voted. It's not democracy, Mrs. Kolundjia. We voted democratically, the majority voted and the law was passed. Your boss says you can't do that, you didn't vote as I say. You can't vote what your big boss says. Let the boss come here and have Parliament shut down, so let's go home nice, we'll have some work to do, and your boss will sit here and propose the laws. Is that right? We haven't satisfied the big boss and he says – everything back, he has to vote. Isn't it a shame for the finance minister to come out and say - this is a disgrace, MPs in Parliament voted against our deal with Philip Morris? Please, why should we vote and dig our people more and more? Why should we vote for beer to be loaded with excise...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14006	People's MP, you didn't list a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14007	... Our worker can't drink a glass of beer, smoke a cheap cigarette. Of course, we want to support what's in the interest of the people...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14008	People's MP, you didn't list a member of the Rules of Procedure you're referring to.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14009	... It's democracy and we fight for it. You do whatever you don't want to take down right away. How can you not be ashamed? A gas deal, with 214 votes for...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14010	In the name of democracy, MP, please state the member of the Rules of Procedure you are referring to.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14011	... The next day, you started to tear it down. Thank you and show a little democracy, pull this redneck. (President: National MP, member of the Rules of Procedure. )......................................................................................................... Rules of Procedure of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14012	People's MP, whatever I can personally believe that all of us here together contribute to the construction of this institution, no one is exempt from equal rules. So at first you just said that you're replicating, you didn't make you look for a replica. You have received the word as president of the parliamentary group, regardless of the other MPs who believe that during the working day, the procedure has been violated, and you are obliged to specify a member of the Rules of Procedure to which you are calling. Whether you get a replica, decides the chairman, and I warn you all to do it. You can tell me personally, it's a practice that has already been established, and it's best when you say it in the context of your exposure. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14013	Dear Chairman, I am reporting on the basis of Article 103 - the MP has the right to speak only about the subject on the agenda. I call on us to start talking about what's on the agenda. It's not the order of beer and cigarettes. I don't know whose boss is going to call who to question why the opportunity to vote past what the government has found to be the state's interest, but surely no one will call us to that kind of conversation. What I'm trying to say is that it's true, again you're confirming that you've been making arrangements beyond all the rules and beyond what's public interest. So, perhaps, for us, it becomes a huge problem, even, some institutions that are very important, such as RIK. How did RIK happen to have social resources this way? It's a practice that's inherited. Someone introduced this practice and someone had been running it for a while. The moment we decided to see how money was spent, we saw a lot of things that were really amazing. When you see who was and where he traveled about the cost of Serbian citizens and when you ask what he really did there for the interests of Serbian citizens, then you can see that these agreements were in someone's interest and that maybe that's why the Assembly was working faster, but these agreements definitely hurt all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14014	Article 103 may be applied either to the consent of the Members of Parliament to respect the Rules of Procedure, or to the will of the Chairman not to allow a word per article 100. None of the other conditions are satisfied, unfortunately, that we begin a final debate on the agenda. National MP Velimir Ilic has the right to reply, as president of the parliamentary group, on the basis of Article 101, based on direct reference. Replication time is three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14015	I wanted to replicate Mrs. Nadia Kolundjia. It is true that RIK was causing problems -- diaries, charges, anarchy, costs more expensive than the costs of the Serbian Parliament, but, people, we believed in you from the ruling coalition. That's where your Justice Minister was sitting until yesterday. That's where your member was sitting, which is unconstitutional. The commission is chaired by the president of the Constitutional Court of Serbia and the minister of justice, and you say there was malfeasance. I can't understand you. We support you, and that is why we need to launch an initiative to replace the Minister of Justice, because she should not have sat there, and, of course, the President of the Constitutional Court. First, how can the President of the Constitutional Court be a member of the political party? I don't think so, and all MPs agree. She publicly said she was a member of the DS and was appointed to the post and was sitting in the Electoral Commission. Imagine what you were doing in the elections then, when you had two strong officials there, who, unfortunately, were frauds, who were working against the interests of the Serb people. The second thing, Mrs. Kolundjia, I disagree with you that by increasing excise duties, you are working in the interests of Serbian citizens. Accises are increasing. Why? To cover the budget deficit, because you are freeing Europe from dumping its fake goods into Serbia and completely destroying Serbia's market and Serbian producers. You have now reduced customs duties, for God's sake, protecting the cars of the flag, giving subsidies, reducing customs duties on old cars entering Serbia. Not to mention agriculture, food, milk, meat and other products. You're completely destroying the Serbian village. By increasing your excise duties, you're causing an increase. When oil and oil derivatives all over the world drop drastically, we grow weekly. That's what pulls the collection chain. Where you're taking us, you have to tell us one day. This is where you will tell us where you have taken us with such gatherings and your EU contributions. I don't know what you're gonna say to Ollie Ren today. Has he humiliated us so much, underestimated us, when he reads lessons to free European products from all taxes, to completely destroy our economy, to dramatically increase unemployment in Serbia, that people are getting fired, that thousands of businesses across Serbia will shut down? Why? Because you're giving the import lobby a chance to bloom and completely destroy the Serbian economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14016	People's MP, I have no right to give any explanation, because you have been given the right to a replica, but in your presentation, you have had a serious slip that can, without any intention, harm people's reputation. That is why I am informing the National Assembly and the public that the lack of guidance in the presentation is – the President of the Constitutional Court. I apologize to the President of the Constitutional Court for being mentioned in a context with which it has absolutely nothing to do with it, and I ask the media to account as well. The ease with which you comment that it is nevertheless inadmissible, MPs. If you think the pay phone is a place where we can get anything out of our language about anyone, then we have a much bigger problem than our mutual agreement to treat freedom of speech with things that are inadmissible to be part of freedom of speech. So, once again, an apology to the Constitutional Court and the President of the Constitutional Court, which has nothing to do with the presentation of MP Velimir Ilic. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14017	Dear Chairman, I am reporting on the basis of article 101 - the right to replication. They're changing their weights again and trying again, with an attack on people, to cloud the essence of the problem. The bottom line of the problem is a system that's either imperfect, or freakish, or twisted, despite the rules that exist, or the rules are missing, which is why the system is bad. Please, this isn't people's fault. We chose them in those places. So it's our responsibility if the rules were bad, so we put these people in a situation that, in a way, they were called in that bad system. They can't be held accountable. Please don't let that kind of hickey be a blur of the very essence of the problem we have. So we have a system problem that allows or does not allow, defines or does not define the occurrences that are bad. We have an obligation to establish a system that will remove such a kind of deformity in practice. Once again, please, we're not talking about people here, we're talking about systemic errors that need to be eliminated, and the National Assembly is exactly the place that laws need to regulate and define a system where such phenomena won't be possible. Once again, please, this isn't about people, and it's not allowed to turn this into a hickey to humans.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14018	National MP Velimir Ilic wants to speak on the basis of article 101.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14019	Madam Chairman, I wanted to replicate Mrs. Nadia Kolundji. I apologize if I told the President of the Court, a member of the Supreme Court, it was Sonja Brkic. However, Madam President of the Supreme Court has warned that this must not be done, and the hack on people is not if we say by name and last name that the minister of justice sat, unfortunately, in the RIK. The minister of justice sits and commits a conscious violation. If this is done by the Justice Minister, what should we think of the Government? Who will protect this country, who will give legal certainty to the citizens of Serbia, who will respect the state institutions, if the minister of justice commits an offence and comes to this parliament to refer, to give us the will to believe that institutions live in this country and not to be ruled by individuals? We don't trust that government, and it's a disgrace for Serbia to have a judge sit on the committee, that the minister of justice sits on the committee, and now we're here to argue that it's a hoax on people. It is a hickey to those who break the law, and they are responsible for taking care of the law and respecting the law in this country. Please, the Justice Minister resigned two days ago, and it's true that she sat on that committee, that she was doing all this stuff that we discussed here and that it was a disgrace to the government. We haven't heard from the Prime Minister, if we have him, and if we don't, we're going to ask him what's replacing him and what's giving him instructions, why is that happening? Are we to blame for coming out here and saying our name and last name? Try to make it smaller and it'll be all right. Let's get back to our problem in Parliament these days. I beg you once again, for the sake of this House's dignity, don't try this way to change the Rules of Procedure interestingly, don't, it will eventually come to your head. The Rules of Procedure should be amended in accordance with the procedure envisaged, which has begun and which is at the end, in the way this Parliament deserves. Mrs. Kolundjia, I ask you to step out with dignity and withdraw these changes you have made, that this parliament be returned to a normal session and that we begin to do what the interests of the citizens of Serbia are. Now, with your bullying in the Change of Rules, we're not gonna get anywhere. You know how, they're gonna hit the bow, that's what the people always said. Don't irritate Parliament with what you tried to push us through.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14020	National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). I ask the representatives of the SRS Group not to prepare for the inventory beating. Yesterday's 110 reports, the last 110 announcements that the Rules of Procedure must be respected. Total credibility is destroyed the moment you start banging things about inventory, credibility, credibility, and everything you think you're representing by asking for word that you're talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, as long as you think you can make noise. Once again, I will ask the MPs to stop doing this. Any attempt to do so during the presentation of the People's Messenger who receives the word will be punished by a measure of caution, one, the other, and the other. Excuse me, MP, for waiting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14021	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I took 12 minutes yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14022	MP Jadranko Vukovic, please stop banging on the inventory, I'll give you a warning measure. I mean very seriously, there is no one but me at this time to preserve Parliament's fundamental dignity and to help you, the MPs of the SRS, not to harm yourself and not to harm this institution. People's MP, don't throw away a chairman who addresses you with a warning not to beat up on inventory cases. Excuse me, MP. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14023	Yesterday I took advantage of 12 minutes of precious congregation time and in the paper I was marked as a reason for obstruction; the shows of many televisions are dedicated to how the advancers are the cause of the delay in Parliament's work. I know it's a synchronised action, so far you're doing well, but it won't take too long. I want to tell you that we are looking forward to a session of the Administrative Committee, at which the mandate of Members of Parliament will finally be resolved. He who is not pleased with it shall turn to the court and continue to exorcise justice. I don't understand why this session has been under obstruction for three days, unless you needed today's policy, press, B92. I don't know if "Justice" got into that SNS stunt, but the hack obviously exists, answers the DS, and that's why I'm asking you one more time, before I say what really took me out for this pay phone. I would not say that it is pointless to lose three days in the Serbian Parliament to listen to the obstruction of the SRS, which said it would continue until a session of the Administrative Committee is held. Speaking of RIK and the hazing of certain people, I feel called to answer, since I started here, as you say, a hickey. It wasn't directed against people, it was directed against appearances. It's not a systemic error, it's the responsibility of people who have lost their criteria and criteria. There are members of all parliamentary parties and we should not be ashamed that some of our members have forgotten how people live in Serbia; those members who are ashamed of it have resigned to the RIK members' posts. So all the members of the RIK that are now in the SNS resigned from the RIK. That's enough. Someone made it possible for enormously high profits, convinced all members, deputies, associates, that it wasn't punishable by law, most likely not. It points us to having to regulate RIK's work from now on, even, in such a way as to limit costs, which is very easy, which can be done. If they can't commit it themselves, and if they don't deserve us to trust them, as we've entrusted them with the regularity of the election, then we're going to have to interfere with those of us who chose them there. It's not a hickey. It is true that there are many people who have seen them, that they are the most respected lawyers in Serbia, that we have chosen the most prominent to be in RIK, and I am not saying that this is counterweight – the more respected you are, the more money you want, in any way, but it is obvious that the entire composition of RIK must be changed. Don't close your eyes in front of that and don't... (President: Speak for three minutes and thirty seconds, please bring the end. I'm sorry, but I've run at least two topics in which I've been mentioned. Don't close your eyes to that, don't single people out, they're all equally guilty. It was nice for them to carry the money from RIK, and now they want to transfer responsibility to just one or two. Please, Madam Chairman, without consulting, stop this agony, wait for what the Administrative Board will do tomorrow and the Assembly to start working with the knowledge that it has solved one issue sought by the SRS. I know they're going to continue on some other issues, but let's just take it one by one. Thank you, gentlemen, for your moderate banging today. (At the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14024	National MP, thanks to the suggestion of a break or consultation with the presidents of parliamentary groups, and on the basis of Article 27. An estimate was made that it would in no way benefit or alter the course of the session. A clear political strategy for a parliamentary group is that, through the use and abuse of members of the Rules of Procedure that allow for the right to speak, the debate on the Decision on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly does not begin. It's our current common situation, but the work will continue. National MP Sreto Peric wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1) National MP Jadranko Vukovic claims to have the right to reply. [[Jadranko Vukovic, from the place: Do I have the right to reply?]] (Jadranko Vukovic, from the place: I ask – am I right? The MP says he's asking, not throwing. The MP shall, if not familiar with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the replica, have the following opportunities, to be based on Article. In 225 and 226, he asks the appropriate authorities in writing to consult with the president, the deputy president of his parliamentary group, to seek reception with the president of the Assembly or one of the vice-presidents of the Assembly, to get acquainted with his rights as to how to find out what he writes in the Rules of Procedure. The situation in which he was warned not to make noise by banging an inventory case is not the basis for replication, but is a warning of a criminal offence. (Jadranko Vukovic, from the city: You are publicly calling me. I'm giving you a second warning for throwing it out of the bench. I give you your first warning, People's Messenger, for throwing you out of the bench. (Jadranko Vukovic, from the place: How are you not ashamed? The Messenger of the people throws away, that you are not ashamed. This shall be taken into account in rude communication with the Chairman. I give you a second warning. (Jadranko Vukovic, from the post: Would you like some more? ) The MP continues to communicate rudely, shouting – will you do more? National MP Jadranko Vukovicu, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The behaviour you demonstrate, except that it violates all the members of the Rules of Procedure that prescribe our mutual conduct, more clearly than anything else, outlines what the intentions of the political strategy you want to base in this assembly are. It's my duty to stop it. Do you still intend to throw away? The next measure is taking words. After speaking the measure of confiscation, follows a distance from the session of the Assembly for 20 days. If you insist that these measures be applied, I am at your disposal, no matter how unpopular and how inappropriate it may be for any parliament, but if you will not leave me any other option, I am at your disposal to express the measure of taking words and away from the session. Here you are, People's Messenger, and I'm sorry to keep you waiting. This is the application of the Rules of Procedure and the custody of order at the National Assembly session by the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14025	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I must say I am pleased with the way you conduct this session. I will turn around when I say this sentence, to see that it is not cynical, or even when you give the head of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group a word for replication, even though the Rules of Procedure have priority, but he is the head of the parliamentary group and should take precedence over some MPs. I don't want to talk about it. So, I'm satisfied. I have the feeling that it is your duty to chair the National Assembly when the situation is a little more tense. Since Mrs. Hope Kolundji is about to come out, my basis for reporting is just a member of 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. She gets very often, and you know it very well, as a good knower of the Rules of Procedure, to report here, at least today, according to Article 103, only to say and only she to invite the MPs to return to the topic. Who is Hope Kolundji, then hers to be the last? The head of an MP's group, and that, without a dilemma, I respect. Another way she insulted the dignity of the National Assembly is by saying that some MPs are seeking more rights here than others. SRS MPs are seeking, originally, as much as the weight of about 1.3 million voters in Serbia, strictly applying the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. We just want to talk about it. She further said that we call on the DS or, personally, Mrs. Hope Kolundji to solve the problem in the SRS. On behalf of the SRS, I am telling her that the SRS has no internal problems and will never call on any political party to solve its problems, because it would be a violation of any democratic procedure and democratic development of any political party. She talked about the results of some policies. The results of the SRS policy are proud of all the members of the SRS and we are proud of both our policy and our party president, and the results of DS policy are the following – irregular, looting, call them whatever you want, privatisation, a large number of people who have lost their jobs, the abuse of democracy, the voting from various places, and not from here, from this parliament, and a number of others, as she says, agreements. We will work exclusively on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. There is a certain problem in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and we ask that the ruling majority solve the problem. Fellow MPs, I find it odd that members of the RIK, although I could agree with some of the debaters in certain matters, resign from the DS, and from some other party. It is a waste of sending signals to Serbian citizens that we are the opposition. We advocate respecting the electoral will of citizens, but respected citizens of Serbia, I guess you're all clear now... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... The DS reserve party is one of the youngest parties, and you can estimate it's name. I thank and apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14026	There is no violation of Rule 104, nor have you explained what this injury would be, except that you were on the verge of violating the members of the Rules of Procedure, because you deny the right of other Members to exercise the right you yourselves. Which member will quote that he is injured, that is his or her right. Please keep that in mind in your presentations, whatever the content of the exposure is, and spend at least 15 seconds quoting what the injury is the procedure, because that's what you get the word for. The People's MP Milorad Buha wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14027	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported in accordance with Article 27. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I must warn, yesterday I did so, on the provision of a member relating to the president's obligation to take care of the work of the assembly bodies, as it stands, of timely and coordinated work. The Management Board shall be one of those bodies and the President of the Assembly shall keep an eye on, in accordance with the provisions of this Article, the timely appointment of the sitting and the work of this Committee. The SRS has a legal request sent to the Management Board thirty days ago. I'll do one parallel. In this House three months ago, there were more demands from MPs to convene a session of the Industry Committee. On two occasions, I wasn't in the O.R. The meeting was held two or three days later, using the provisions of this article. In this case, the application of this Article shall be avoided and the Management Board shall not be consulted by the SRS for more than 30 days. The SRS isn't asking for a positive solution. Solve, positive or negative, reject the request, reject the request, give a neat explanation, in the legal system of this country there is a right to appeal and we will use it, but solve it. This is a direct blockade of Parliament, organised by the ruling majority and supported by the speaker of the assembly. The president of the assembly and the ruling majority bear responsibility for the non-resolvement. After all, there is someone else who is more important and who, in the end, makes decisions. I suggest calling US Ambassador Manter for a session of the Administrative Committee and making a decision, because otherwise he makes all vital decisions, and related to this Parliament, and to various other state bodies. Let the man solve this situation and let's get it off the agenda. He will most likely refuse our request, but allow us to get that negative decision, so that we can use legal means to engage in the judicial and other proceedings at our disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14028	National MP, there is no violation of Article 27, nor did you well quote the intention of injury, since the committee session is scheduled by the president, or the president of the Assembly, only when it is constitutional or when the chairman of the board is not in the country, so he cannot do so, which was your example. So it's not true that you weren't in the O.R., but you weren't in the country. That's the information you gave. People's MPs earn money. What does that have to do with anything? It has to do with the truthfulness of the data being presented behind the pay phone when word is given. The Management Board meeting is scheduled in a timely manner by the chairman of the Administrative Board before the session is launched. The members of the Administrative Board have been informed in good time and the session will continue, according to the latest notice held by the chairman of the Administrative Board, tomorrow, February 13th. None of what you state is true and represents a kind of abuse of the right to receive a word, and I ask you and I warn you that it does not happen when you get a word based on Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Dobrislav Prelic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14029	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting on the basis of an article. 27 and 104. Namely, the most brutal violation is the dignity of the National Assembly, Mrs. Komic, of you as chairman. You continue to make warnings to the MPs of the SRS. You just gave two warnings to Mr. Jadranka Vukovic. Knowing Mr. Vukovic, I'm sure he didn't knock, because that's not how he would react safely. But you managed to provoke him and punish him twice. Yesterday, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic quoted Article 106 as asking you to explain on the basis of which you punished Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic. You explained - for your reasons only, probably, why you punished him. All your impotence, Mrs. Comic, to rule, you're trying to transfer to the SRS. We know very well how you came to power. The only task was to come to power at all costs. After that, stay in power at all costs. When you saw that was impossible, you tried to make a coup in the SRS. Believe me, Mrs. Comic, we've only come out stronger. We ask absolutely nothing of you, except that you respect the Constitution and the laws, to schedule a session of the Administrative Board, because you have spoken and justified yourself for months – where these resignations are, submit them to you. We resigned a month ago. Now you find some arguments that simply don't drink water. Are these any promises and invisible arrangements that Mrs. Hope Kolundji spoke of today? We're convinced they are. All of what you're doing, and yesterday she saw the entire world public, by interrupting the trial of Professor Vojislav Seselj, says you're more than in a panic. When there were only six hours and 15 minutes left, where Professor Vojislav Seselj beat the Hague prosecutor's office to his feet, the fact is that you're afraid of his return to the country. I'm sure you'll schedule an administrative board, and after that, we'll respond if there's any need. As for Tomislav Nikolic and what Mrs. Kolundzija said, that she did not run for president, or Alexander Vukic, it is a finished story for us, and you start to suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14030	Mr Tomislav Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14031	Now I understand why the predecessor has been a member of our parliamentary group for several hours. So, out of you came what you just said from this pay phone. Indeed, the DS are waiting for a great deal of trouble, but it's politics. You don't think they're going to suffer from you, do you? The way you behave, they can be in power for 1,000 years. They need to be defeated by someone who will prove that he is better, that with much more seriousness he thinks about the state, that with much more seriousness he wants to engage in the fight against crime, that with much more seriousness he understands this people's congregation. As you undermine the reputation of the National Assembly among Serbian citizens, it is not a sign that you want to defeat them. This is a sign that you want to deal with politics, the way we did it 15 years ago, and you knew we couldn't run the country. Together we have reached the extent to which the state can be run. I'm sorry you're falling off that scale, but that's why we're here and that's why the Democrats are panicking. A moment ago, one of you said -- what's done in the media, you didn't do it, it was organised by the "yellows". Of course, and that's why one of you said well a moment ago - they're playing now, they're in power. The reserve, the replacement for them, the one who enters for them is the SNS. Please, Mr. Markovic, don't disturb me while I speak. (At all times the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14032	Bojan Mladenovic, advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14033	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 27, 103, 104, 225 and 226. More than once these members have been violated.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14034	Please, by art. In 225 and 226, there are no grounds for reporting, and you have no word, and tell us where the breach of the Rules of Procedure is by the other members you listed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14035	Article 27 – The President of the National Assembly takes care of the timely and coordinated work of the National Assembly, which has not been done for more than 30 days, or about 30 days stands our request for a session of the Administrative Committee, which has not yet been held. She's scheduled for tomorrow. The question is, will she be held at all?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14036	Mr. MP, you're abusing that member. You know it's scheduled for tomorrow's session in 10 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14037	Yeah, but I'm saying, 30 days late.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14038	Please, there's no basis for advertising the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14039	Article 103 is injured. The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. The predecessor wasn't talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14040	He had a replica and he had a right to answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14041	The head of the Nada Kolundji parliamentary group has been full for three minutes, and more than three minutes has talked about systems, which are also not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14042	You are violating this member of the Rules of Procedure, sir, because you are not talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14043	I'm saying there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm pointing to that, since you weren't in the O.R., and it's my right to point out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14044	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The previous speaker had a replica and replied to the previous MP. Therefore, the replica also includes the content we heard from Mr Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14045	I'm not talking about the predecessor right now, I'm talking about Mrs. Nadia Kolundji, who answered and talked for three minutes about systems that weren't even on the agenda. I suggest this is where the Rules of Procedure got hurt. So she talked about the system, she talked about Justice Minister Snezana Malovic, as she was placed in two functions due to system errors. You weren't in the O.R. and you didn't hear her exhibit. Look. She's been talking about it for three minutes now, so she's done an injury to Article 103. The Rules of Procedure didn't even talk about the issue on the agenda. She tried to defend Justice Minister Snezana Malovic in her conflict of interest, because she is also a member of the RIK. Please, if the systems are wrong, how did she say, why did the ruling coalition make a mistake and place the person in two important functions?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14046	You didn't point to the injury, and you can't elaborate that injury indefinitely now, and that's how you get away from the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14047	I have to point out what the injury looked like, since you weren't in the O.R., which is why she talked about it for three minutes, and no one interrupted her. It is a conflict of interest, which all the daily newspapers have published, as well as the media. I end up with this sentence, I would no longer owe this debate, if the system was bad, the ruling coalition should not have one person propose to two very important functions and thus bring Snezana Malovic into conflict of interest. It has also been appointed as justice minister, as well as a member of the RIK. They made a big mistake and put a person in conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14048	Mr. Mladenovic, I tried my best to point out to you the fact that you're abusing the Rules of Procedure. I won't give you a warning, but I'm warning you that in the future you can't do any damage to the Rules of Procedure the way you've done it now. You're, in fact, misusing the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Boris Aleksic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14049	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I advertise the violation of the article. 27 and 104, dignity of the National Assembly. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, when you just said that the speaker is moving away from the agenda topic, it could really be an injury, if the agenda had been discussed at all. So when the MP comes out, he advertises the injury of a member of the Rules of Procedure, then he explains what the injury is. He can appeal to any member and the basic democratic rule is to let him explain for at least one minute, although he has the right to explain three minutes, consisting of the injury. While you were away, Mrs. Comic did the next thing. She said that, from some point in time of her presidency, the article would no longer apply. 225 and 226. She said we've been applying art so far. 225 and 226, but from the moment she publicly said it, she won't be able to hear it anymore. So, by her own free will, she decided to apply or not apply the Rules of Procedure. In this way, Mrs. Comic practically behaves as a despot. You know, in the Principatus, which changed the Roman Republic, one proverb became dominant, which is that the princess laws are not binding. So the princips could do whatever they wanted. The spirit of parliamentaryism is being violated here. Mrs. Kolundzhija also went out and talked about Parliament, about Article 103. I don't know if anyone explained the meaning of the word Parliament, of which the words are of origin – of the word 'talk, debate'. If you, in a new draft decision amending the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, reduce the possibility for MPs to speak, from 15 minutes to two minutes, you end parliamentaryism. The apostle cannot perform his basic duty, you forbid him to speak. You forbid us to speak on the basis of an article. 225 and 226. What do we do? How do we ask the ministers? How do we look for the information we need in our work? Would you like to share their cell phone numbers, send them messages? Are we going to organize a video conference? Are we going to get pigeon writers, maybe telepathy? Let's figure out how we can get the information. For example, the basic function of parliament is a control function, not a law-making function. We're the most representative body. The government is nothing compared to us. Look what the government has done with the Justice Act. So, the only expert branch of government, we have two political branches of government, executive and legislative, judicial branch of government is the professional branch of government... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'm done, I'm sorry. By the law of the judges, they lustrated the judges, broke the Constitution, and said, "The right of the majority." I'll remind you, Aristotle put the rule of the majority as a depraved form of rule in his "politics" (President: Will you please? You've been talking for 20 seconds. )......................................................................................................... which is opposed to the Republic. So, please, allow the MPs to work. Thank you. I'm sorry for overstepping.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14050	Mr. Ambassador, first of all, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, by not talking about a broken provision, but about your observations regarding participation in the violation of the Rules of Procedure of other Members. So you didn't follow this Rules of Procedure, that's the first. Secondly, we have practically opened the agenda and Mrs. Kolundzija has set out exposés on behalf of the promoter's representative. It's not true we're not on the agenda. So, two things I resent and please don't let this happen again. Mr. Momir Markovic has a word. I ask the MPs to point out which member is injured and which part is the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14051	During the three-minute hearing, the MP is obliged to indicate which member is injured. Before I move on to this, I congratulate all Serbian radicals in Serbia, in all Serbian countries and wherever they are, the glory of the Holy Three Gerards. Happy is the glory of those who have celebrated it recently, and the glory is happy that they no longer celebrate it. Before I move on to a member of the Rules of Procedure, I must point out, Madam President, you weren't there, but Mrs. Comic was to one great injustice which was done to one of the people's MPs. Namely, Mr. Markicevic came out and no one heard his appeal, cry out; the man is bitter, offended, embarrassed by the statement of the chairman of the Administrative Board. A man can't appear in his hometown of shame and shame. There is no greater shame and shame for a Serbian nationalist from percin to fifth, such as Mr Markicevic, but to be told that he is a member, let alone the president of the SNS Parliament Club. There's no greater shame for a nationalist. So I would ask you to correct this lapus lingu of the chairman of the Administrative Board and to tell the citizens of Serbia that Mr Markicevic is neither a member nor president of the SNS Parliament Club. I'm going back now. I'm advertising an injury to article 161. Rules of Procedure. Valtazar Bogisic, one of the smartest Serbian heads, said in time – as the coat of arms is born, time does not correct. At the very appointment of this session and putting this point on an emergency procedure, a violation has been committed and I will now remind you – based on an article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, they asked for an emergency procedure. To read, for the sake of Serbian citizens, Article 135, which says – the right to propose laws and other regulations and general acts has the government, every MP, the autonomous province's assembly or at least 15,000 voters. Article 160 says: "The draft rules of procedure, declarations, resolutions, recommendations, decisions or conclusions may be submitted by the legislator, in writing, with an explanation". There's no reason for an emergency procedure in any of the other members. To move on to Article 161, which says: "A matter of urgency can only be passed by law governing issues and relations resulting from circumstances that could not be predicted, and the adoption of laws by emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, the safety of the country and the work of organs and organisations." Is it, ladies and gentlemen, that the life and health of people are at risk by not putting the motion to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure in the regular procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14052	I just wanted to remind you that you've been talking for almost a minute longer. You've been talking for almost four minutes, and there's no injury to any member, and exactly what you're saying as an argument for the injury are arguments that there are no injured members.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14053	Article 161 at an emergency procedure... .
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14054	It's explained and you got it. In writing, and verbally, the legislator cited the adverse consequences that would arise in case we did not make amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, your claims do not stand, and none of those members are injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14055	I'll get back to you, since I have to finish the story, to show where article 161 is injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14056	First, you can't get the word right now, because you need another speaker to speak. Secondly, you're the members you listed who tried to explain, exactly, the facts that say they're not injured. Thank you. There's a word Mr. Dusan Maric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14057	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 104. At 11.40 p.m., Mrs. Hope Kolundzija here gave a lie that, in my opinion, represents a serious violation of the dignity of the National Assembly and of me as a National MP. In fact, she found that the work of the National Assembly was blocked. As you can see, the Assembly is working. Nowhere does it say that the debate on any bill, any draft decision, must last one, two or three days. I believe that the dignity of the National Assembly has also been violated by Mrs Colundge's claim that we are discussing irrelevant topics. We are discussing issues that are, in our opinion, the most important for the work of the Serbian Parliament. It is an issue of the DS's attempt to abolish parliamentary democracy in Serbia and silence the opposition by amending the Rules of Procedure. The second topic we are discussing these days is stealing the SRS' parliamentary mandates and ending the election will of citizens. The regime has been cheating on the public for months as we...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14058	What you're saying now doesn't apply to the provision of a member who's advertised that he's been injured. As for the dignity of the congregation, you did not explain what the dignity of the congregation was infrequent.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14059	If the Assembly is working, and the citizens of Serbia see that it is working, if I am behind this speaker, if I express certain political views, if, using the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia which is in force, I suggest, for example, that the president of the DS Parliament Club in a rough way has hurt my dignity as a National MP, in any case, I am doing exactly what you say I am not doing, so I explain why the dignity of the Assembly has been injured. Mrs. Kolundzija has also violated the dignity of the National Assembly, arguing that we are here discussing insignificant topics and preventing the adoption of very important laws, pro-European laws, which will allow for a better life for Serbian citizens. In my hands, I keep a list of the laws found in the congregation procedure. As it is time for me not to be interrupted, I will again report to the Serbian Business and Citizens, as the ruling coalition claims, with extremely important laws that will allow Serbia to join the EU faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14060	Mr. MP, I would like to remind you that we have moved on to the agenda, that the total time of the debate is in principle for parliamentary groups for five hours, in accordance with Article 94, that there has been no violation of dignity in Mrs. Colundge's statement. After all, you may ask the Assembly to declare this in the voting day, but the public and I remind you that we are not already working on the agenda. One day of work, or work, costs five million citizens of Serbia, and it is quite clear that the issues you are raising here are a kind of blockade of Parliament. Mr. Ljubomir Kragovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. Namely, it is not only a session of the Assembly that needs to be transferred and presented in public, but also the work of the Assembly committees, which are sitting during the assembly session, and when there is no session of the Assembly. Namely, what was going on? During yesterday, there was a session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija and not a single second in the shock log was a word about the session. If we say that we are wasting time here, to lose five million euros, I suggest that we have tried to do something to avoid losing 15% of Serbian territory, to prevent the 150,000 Serbs left in Kosovo and Metohija from returning to Kosovo and Metohija. In fact, yesterday, the Committee unanimously, again, pointed out that, unlike this assembly, this home, and yesterday the Committee had a quorum for work and decision-making, reached conclusions saying: 1) that the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija supports the proposal of the Kosovo and Metohija Community Assembly to hold a session and to have MPs present at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The session is scheduled to take place on 17 February 2009, at 12 o'clock in Zvecan. Also, the Committee reached a conclusion urging the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, not to schedule a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in Belgrade on 17 February 2009, so that the MPs would be free...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14062	Mr Kragovic, you have advertised a member of 104 who speaks about the dignity of the Assembly, and you are talking about the work of the Committee. You can't talk about it. I warn you that you cannot talk about the Committee's work now that you've advertised Article 104. You can explain only where the MPs did not address one another with respect and whether there was any involvement in the private lives of other Members. That's exactly what Article 104 says. So if there are such elements, please explain. You can't talk about the Committee's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14063	I just wanted to tell you that there is a media darkness on RTS when the term Kosovo and Metohija are mentioned. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee was not presented for a second, and it worked. There were 10-15 cameras... (President: Time. I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14064	National MP Vladan Jeremic has a word. I'm warning you, so I don't say the measures, please, you're talking about a member who's been injured and what the breach of the Rules of Procedure consists of. There's no problem talking about it, but really talking about it. I'll take away the word, and I'll say the measures if you don't stick to it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14065	I'd like this opportunity to point to Article 104's injury and, possibly, Article 87. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because if, Madam President, you have just announced that we are working on the agenda here, then I am interested in why no proposing representatives are present for what we should discuss today. Until we found out, what I was about to point out was during your presence here. I believe, regardless of the difference in opinion, that the president of the ZES Parliamentary Group has hurt not only the dignity of us here, the people's representatives, but also common sense. So, I'm talking about her, not the head of the Prosperity Group, Serbia, he respects the dignity of the National Assembly, except, perhaps, when it comes out, when it releases unarticulated screams or tears of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14066	You're in violation of article 104 and you're talking ugly about a fellow MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14067	No, I don't. I'm sorry. We SRS MPs, in the opinion of Mrs. Hope Kolundji, are guilty, practically, of everything that's going on here. It is our fault that today is not done according to the scheduled agenda, which, by the way, should be apologising the total silence of the opposition with these new amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, just as we are probably guilty that today in February it is snowing, as our representatives in the Government blame that many so-called so-called. European laws are not yet in the assembly procedure. I'll just, for the public's sake, remind you that three of these laws are waiting for adoption in the government, that 14 of them have been under review, and 12 have not even begun writing yet, not to say – copying. The obstruction, therefore, does not look at the fact that, in some ways, we have used those members of the 225th and 226th in order to bring about the many problems that Serbian citizens are facing. The obstruction may be seen in the fact that one of the recent clarifications of the presidency lasted seven minutes and 46 seconds. The obstruction is probably looking at the fact that the laws and the constitution of this country are not respected. What Mrs. Kolundjia mentioned, they should not be on either side except on the side of the law. So, the obstruction not only of the Assembly, but also of Serbia, in my opinion, is being conducted by the regime, which is being viewed in the daily layoffs of workers, in the gatherings, in the denial of part of the territory and in one of the intrinsic relationships of those who currently have a 'knife and a locust' in their hands. All of this is, of course, accompanied by a certain media treatment and it is clear why these hints of breaking down TV transmissions and a much more restrictive new rules of procedure are coming. So, we're to blame for being... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Here, let me just finish the sentence...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14068	In addition, you have not explained any of the above, you have not shown that Mrs. Kolundji has spoken to anyone without respect or that she has entered anyone's private life. So you haven't argued what you said about advertising, and it's past time. I'm really warning you right now, and next time I'm going to tell you something. Mrs Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14069	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. I'd like to say that the SRS does not commit blackmail, obstruction, or abuse of this respected home. In order to prove all this to you, I would like to quote a publication of the National Assembly, the representative body of Serbian citizens, published by the National Assembly. So, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the home of all citizens, in which they, through their representatives, actively participate in the organisation of society. In view of this, direct research into attitudes is difficult, citizens are choosing MPs in Parliament. Also, I mean...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14070	Col. Milosavljevic, you do not explain where Article 104 is injured. Please, either try to explain it or you won't have...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14071	I want to say that Mrs. Comic and Mrs. Nada Kolundžija need to get to know this a little better, not just to draw criticism from the work of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14072	Please, there's no explanation in your statement of a injured member, so you can't speak any further. Thank you. The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14073	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, give me my time, because it started to run before I went out for the pay phone. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point out, is a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly by the President of the Parliamentary Group of the ZES, Mrs Nada Kolundzhija. Her explanations on why the crisis occurred in Parliament's work are quite childish and inconclusive. It's not that the Serbian radicals had a fight with anyone and that the issue of the SRS's kidnapped mandate is our whim that we are now exorcising here. This is a matter of principle...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14074	Mr. Martinovic, just to remind you, you don't explain the reason for a member's injury. You're talking again, like your colleagues, one story that has been told here on many occasions. The citizens heard her. The MPs heard her, even if she didn't comply with the Rules of Procedure. There was a chance you could tell her. If you are already calling for article 104, pages 1, 2 and 3, you should specify exactly how Mrs. Kolundji addressed it to someone, without respecting them, and how she entered the private life of others. It's the contents of this article. Here, I know you know that well.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14075	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. I truly deeply appreciate you personally and the way you run this assembly, and I am sure that you, like us MPs of the SRS, are on the same mission, which is to restore the spirit of parliamentaryism and democracy to this home. I'm trying to explain how Mrs. Hope Kolundji hurt the Rules of Procedure. I'm not a man of any particular mind. I believe MPs from the ruling coalition would do it much better than I do. What are you going to do? It's just that the question of a term of office isn't about anyone's whim. It's not about us having nothing else to do but withdraw our mandate. The SRS will not be much stronger, much weaker with or without those three mandates. Here it is, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I hope you understand me, on a principled matter, whether in the state of Serbia it is allowed to steal. Can criminal acts, on the brutal violation of the Constitution and the law, be based on any law? If he can, it's the end of the Serbian state. If you're legalizing stealing in Parliament, how dare you punish an ordinary citizen who steals a thousand dinars from someone? Then cancel the courts, break the laws, then say – we can do everything in our interest. I'm sure you don't think so. So it's not a matter of three mere mandates. It is not true what Mrs. Hope Kolundji said, that we insist that the Administrative Board make a decision that determines the end of the term of office of three former Members of Parliament. No, we're just asking to hold a session... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'm sorry, I'm ending this debate, we were denied yesterday, and the Management Board is making a decision on our request. Whether he respects it, or rejects it, it's on the Administrative Board. There's no argument. Get away from the debate. That's what this is about. No SRS MP has come out for this pay phone and said, please, the Management Board must return the mandates. He doesn't have to. Let him overexplain us, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14076	Of course you haven't explained or argued what member 104 was injured in. I'm warning you this time, and next time I'll give you a warning. National MP Dragan Stevanovic. Members of the Parliament, don't put me in a position to warn you, and then I'll punish you. Please respect the Rules of Procedure and try to explain the member you're advertising. They're not threats. I think this is really a college warning, a request. Here, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14077	Madam President of the Assembly, I called earlier as Mrs Comic chaired the meeting. Of course, I didn't get my turn, so I'm glad she's here, and I wouldn't want her to misread what I'm trying to say. I just pointed out a violation of Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the President's office to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. It seems to me that Mrs. Comic understood me a little differently than she was my intention. From that fact, he concluded that the members of 225 and 226 were members. The Rules of Procedure can no longer be used in the way they have been used so far in this assembly, and I see, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, that you have also continued the practice. If you'll allow me, Mrs Comic, I am a man who believes that there are many things with you, when it comes to Parliament's policy or work, he would agree in principle. This isn't malignant, it's not hypocritical, I mean it and I feel it. But today when I pointed out the violation of Article 27 and the policy, or principle, of double arches, I spoke only in the context of securing the quorum for the work of the session of the Assembly, i.e. the committee, which is also regulated by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. You interpreted it the way it suits you and you brought it into context with Articles 225 and 226. Therefore, I think you have abused, I repeat, the position and do not allow MPs to speak in accordance with Articles 225 and 226 and seek what is meant as information or information. I think that there is, too, advertising the violation of Article 27, a reaction to a finding by the president of the parliamentary group that is not at all naive and can be defined as scandalous, which is that the problem that weighs and burdens this parliament, which the SRS insists on at the session of the Administrative Committee, to address the problem of the mandate, has nothing to do with the law and the Rules of Procedure. I am now, from this place, asking, if this is said by the head of the parliamentary group, the head of the ruling majority – in which areas and categories can an answer be found to the question of the mandate and work of the Administrative Committee in the Assembly? If this is not resolved by law and by the Rules of Procedure, which mechanisms can solve it, so that the SRS can be defined for these mechanisms? Either you've discovered the background of everything, or we've been sent a very bad and incorrect message. I would ask the chairman to inform me on which mechanisms are being dealt with and the process the SRS is asking as a question to this House?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14078	Mr. Stevanovic, of course you have neither explained nor said which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured. And I'm warning you, next time in this case, I'm going to impose a certain penalty. As far as your question is concerned, regardless of what was absolutely out of line with the advertising of the Rules of Procedure, you have called on a member of 27, so what was it, etc., twice you tell the same story, I can only tell you something that is well known to you. The Management Board, RIK and the courts are responsible for the issues you mentioned as issues you are interested in. You know that well. The board is scheduled for tomorrow. He's under the roof of the National Assembly and you know very well that the session is scheduled for tomorrow. Mr. Mirko Munjic has a word. Please, gentlemen of the Parliament, explain the member you claim to have been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14079	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I'm advertising Article 86. Rules of Procedure. I'll quote the first two points, so please don't count me this time. "The President of the National Assembly opens a session of the National Assembly and, on the basis of official records of the presence of MPs, notes the number of MPs attending the session. If the president finds that at the beginning of the working day, in the session room, at least one third of the MPs are not present, the session shall be postponed by one hour. "Mr. President, you were not at the beginning of this session, the Vice-President of the National Assembly injured this article 86, by establishing the quorum, establishing this one-third of the MPs, found that at that moment, at 15 seconds, there were only 82 MPs, so that he did not apply Article 2, of this Rules of Procedure, to postpone the meeting of the National Assembly for one hour. I think you'll be able to see that by looking at the stenogram, and you'll see that this is my explanation that's really appropriate. All this that happened afterwards, all these consequences, stemmed from such a violation and disrespect of the Rules of Procedure by you as the ruling majority. Perhaps the most important thing for you is to limit or reduce the public debate in this House, in order to satisfy, perhaps, the "Kacini" or some mentalist, Serbian friends, in order to reduce the number of MPs in the National Assembly, in order to abolish TV transmissions, in order to drastically reduce the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly to the expense of the work of the MPs, etc. Either it is important for you to transfer everything to some commissions, agencies, NGOs, but only on one condition, that all of this be independent of Parliament, even at the risk that such a political crawl introduces a dictatorship on a small door. There's something else I'd like to say. In your justification for all this, I'm talking about the ruling majority, by calmly accepting all this, there's no "d" from democracy either. It is said that at the court of some sultan there was one... (President: Time. I'm sorry, I've been quoting for half a minute. Will you let me? (President: Please. I'm gonna get this over with. At the court of a sultan, there was a government official, or court official, named Evet-efendi. That Evet-efendy was the only task he had to nod his head, just to nod his head, in a sign of approval for everything the Sultan would say. For the sake of the interest of the Serbian people and for the sake of the interests of those whose fates you have taken into your hands, I think you should consider this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14080	Mr. MP, the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the days when it begins to work is determined by an electronic system, or every MP is required to identify himself when entering the hall and to insert an identification card into the MP's unit, according to the Rules of Procedure. I'll get you a report on that. I have assurances from the chairman that today, when the session began, this condition was met in the Rules of Procedure. Jadranka Vukovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14081	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honorable Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I am reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. You weren't in the O.R., this deputy of yours, Gordana Komic, punished me. I'd like to, if you have the opportunity, to check through professional services why she punished me. I didn't bang the moment she warned me, that'll be confirmed by many colleagues. However, I must draw your attention, as a woman who does some work and who knows best the profile of a person, both mine and everyone in these benches, to a colleague. In her eyes, when I look at her, and you don't even have to comment on it, I've noticed a great deal of hate when she speaks to the MPs of the SRS. Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I reported that I would respond to Mrs. Nada Kolundzija's presentation, which has brutally accused Boris Tadic of this speaker. Imagine a Serbian radical defending the president of Serbia?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14082	I'm sorry, I couldn't figure out which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14083	Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14084	Try to explain that, because all of what you've been saying so far has had more elements of the violation of Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14085	Ms. Slavica, she said, in your absence, that she was behind this speaker – we will not allow some secret conversations and arrangements. Our MP group has been charged with this speaker by Tomislav Nikolic and some others that we received some money, two million. That was denied by Mr. Tadic. Mrs. Kolundjia says there have been secret conversations, there will be no more of them. She directly accuses Boris Tadic. Let Boris Tadic come forward again. I'd like you to say, he took this one and that one, so we'll attack him here, whether he's ours or yours. It is not correct to treat MPs in your absence. It's not a dispute, it can be us, we'll probably do it in your absence, we'll make it possible for us all to get 20 days off, and then, nicely enough, you finish 200 laws. It will be our next step if you allow this assembly to be run by Mrs. Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14086	Mr. Vukovic, as an MP and as my colleague, I very much respect you, but let me comment that Mrs. Komic is not this one, she is the Vice-President of the Assembly, she has chaired and, if she has injured the Rules of Procedure, you have the right to ask the Assembly to declare this in the voting day. That's the first one. Secondly, you really didn't explain Article 104 that you said was hurt, you were already talking about your impressions, which you can't handle under this. I understand humanly, but business isn't right. Okay, well, for you and your colleagues, I'm really asking you to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure in the future, otherwise I'm going to have to impose sanctions. Mr. Spasojevic has the word. He's not there. The word is Mrs Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14087	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising an article. 104 and 161 of this Rules of Procedure and I think it is a violation of the dignity of the Assembly throughout today, as well as a violation of Rule 161 relating to the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Assembly. The ruling majority presented to the MPs a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, explaining that this is in the interest of more effective work, but essentially, for us from the opposition, he, by means of his restrictions on the rights of MPs, is a violation of dignity both the Assembly and the Rules of Procedure. As for Article 161, I am not a lawyer by profession, but I have consulted a lawyer, this article refers to the adoption of an emergency procedure law. The Rules of Procedure are not a law but a general act, it may be part of the Law on the National Assembly, but it is not an act and it is not right to pass parts of a law that is not in the congregation procedure. It is a very vile intention of the ruling majority to silence the opposition, to cover up its active participation in Serbia's fragmentation and in the joint robbery effort to sell and destroy joint assets and goods by its ministers, directors of public enterprises, directors of various agencies, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14088	Mrs Plecevic, you do not explain Article 104 or Article 161 and you cannot, you are late, the law is by emergency procedure, or the decision to amend the Rules of Procedure is already by an urgent procedure, at a time that is in line with the facts in this Rules of Procedure. I'm telling you again, the promoter has both written and verbally explained the reasons for the emergency procedure, and I don't think this moment is the time to advertise Article 161.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14089	But it's not the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14090	Please, it is an act, i.e. a decision to supplement and amend the Rules of Procedure. The explanation for that you heard, received it in writing, and there was no objection to an emergency procedure. As for Article 104, try to explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14091	It refers to the dignity of the Assembly, by adopting itself before MPs such a proposal to amend its Rules of Procedure. I wanted to explain why you wanted to silence the opposition with new proposals to amend the Rules of Procedure. If you don't allow it, then it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14092	Mrs. Plecevic, you need to explain where the procedure in the discussion is damaged, of course, you can state your position. We've got time for a principle debate for five hours, but that's on the agenda, and that's not at all controversial. You advertise the Rules of Procedure, you say the procedure is damaged, I ask – where? Were there any private insults, was the dignity of the Assembly violated, by entering any MPs' private lives, by pointing out to Mrs. Kolundjia, or who you already cited as the reason for this breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14093	Not only during this day, but during yesterday and all these days since the debate on this agenda began.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14094	Mrs. Plecevic, you did not explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14095	I'd like to finish, Madam President, the story I started. I'm running out of time, and you didn't count on me to quote three members of the Rules of Procedure, so I had time to finish my presentation first time. Paragraph 2 of Article 161 reads: "The legislator of the law is obliged to state, in a written explanation of the bill, the adverse consequences that would result from the adoption of this law by emergency procedure". So, when the session was scheduled, the legislator did not specify what would happen in the state of Serbia if the decision to amend the Rules of Procedure was not made by an emergency procedure, how much damage the state of Serbia, how many Serbian citizens, how many jobs would disappear, how much more of this is left, how much more excise, tax and all that is left if we do not make this decision by emergency procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the point is to prepare for the asphyxiation of democracy both in Parliament and in the state of Serbia. One more thing to say, just the time I've exceeded, I'll leave those 30 seconds, when this morning the burning of the Assembly as a form of democracy may have been misread, perhaps DOS tried to return to the cradle of democracy. You know the mother of democracy is Athens. There were no buildings in Athens, but democracy literally took place in the amphitheater, and the amphitheater had no roof. By burning down the Parliament, by destroying that roof, the House of the Federal Assembly would become an amphitheater and then we would return to the roots and sources of democracy. Thank you, I'm leaving these 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14096	For the second time, I answer that the argument has been given both in writing and in oral form by Mrs. Nada Kolundzhija, a representative of the promoter. The reasons for the emergency procedure are given both in writing and in oral form to MPs. Mr. Dusan Maric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14097	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising a breach of members 23, 87, 103, 104 and 226. I will start with Article 23 - in the National Assembly to educate parliamentary groups, as a rule, no later than seven days from the day of the election of the President of the National Assembly. You know that the election was over on 11 May, and then there was the establishment of the National Assembly. We have representatives of the parliamentary group here, as the parliamentary majority called them, who established their parliamentary group in September. Item 2 - The parliamentary group consists of the MPs of one political party, other political organisations or groups of citizens who have at least five MPs. The moment the former SRS MPs, who left the SRS, informed the public and the assembly's leadership that they had formed a parliamentary group, they did not exist as a political party, another political organisation. Article 87 - National Assembly meetings, in addition to Members of Parliament, shall be attended by members of the Government, by authorised representatives of other legislators and by the Secretary of the Republic of the Secretariat for Law, as well as by other persons who are invited by the President of the National Assembly. Here we are discussing, as you claim, extremely important topics. We also argue that amendments to the Rules of Procedure are essential for democracy in Serbia, but we do not see any government representatives here. Article 103 – The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. Mrs. Nada Kolundzhija, who has now returned, has been out for this pay phone a dozen times and has spoken about various topics, but has not spoken about the subject on the agenda, these are the amendments of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Item 2 - no one may interrupt the speaker or warn him, except the President of the National Assembly, in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. At a time when my colleague, MP Munjic, MP of DS, lady or missus, who has a very likable voice and an even more likable tail, had thrown away at least five or six times – time, time. You did not act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and did not give her any warning. "During the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw, or interfere with the speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech. "Now I've looked back on one of those cases, where you've missed an opportunity to react. Article 104 - People’s MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I started to explain. I'm sorry, my time is up. Thank you for these six seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14098	Of course there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure. I will only read to you that the parliamentary group is established by submitting to the president of the National Assembly a list of members signed by each member of the parliamentary group. The list specifically lists the president of the parliamentary group and his deputy. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14099	I'm referring to Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mrs. Comic, now you've confused me. I wanted to talk to you about something that happened before you guys sat down. How are you going to interpret that now? I'm probably taking a huge risk of being misread. Take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, respect the Constitution and the law, that is, under Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the primary obligation of the one who holds the presidency, and that is the first among the equal. If the first among the equals thinks that he is the Most High and that there are no more equal with him, then such problems arise. They are manifested by the appointment of the session, through the establishment of the agenda, and by the work of the National Assembly session itself. Of course, I can't call on the Rules of Procedure when I have to comment on the view, the diction, the voice and the emotion, because it's a matter of taste and something that's a characteristic of a person, and I don't talk about it, it's not a political issue, but what, of course, is a political issue in Serbia, it's a question of the legitimacy of the work and the legality of decisions of the National Assembly. We, as the highlight of democracy and the view of the DS, are supposed to look like parliamentaryism and how MPs should fulfil their obligations in the National Assembly, get this initiative to change the Rules of Procedure, to shut up here, and someone has concluded that Serbia needs silence at this time, to keep quiet about KIM, to keep quiet about Vojvodina, to remain silent about the economic crisis, social misery and to remain silent about what is happening in The Hague tribunal, where the truth cannot live, because there is no place for it. One who is first among the equal must ensure that the National Assembly is a safe house for parliamentaryism, for democracy, and not that there is a kind of obstruction of those who are in power and who represent the majority in the National Assembly. If the chairman of a committee belonging to the opposition, or is a member of the opposition party, as a member of a committee, does not come to the board meeting and does not provide the quorum, it is in some way understood and understood, because the government is obliged to provide the majority. However, when representatives of the authorities do not want to provide quorum in such an important body as the Administrative Committee, that is the second. I have to draw attention, the people who have been following this transmission for a long time know, everything has been done under the recommendations of the National Assembly President, the procedure has been initiated before the Administrative Board. You see for yourself, almost a month, the Committee doesn't make a decision. Please, when you refer to institutions, to legality, take a look at what you are doing and what kind of obstruction you are doing in the National Assembly. Your obstruction yields poor results in the work of the National Assembly. (Chairman (Gordana Komic): Three minutes and thirty seconds. )I would ask you to put this proposal in the voting day – that the president of the National Assembly has violated Article 27, and I have cited a large amount of reasons to support that claim.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14100	No injured member 27. The congregation will declare itself, and you did not provide an explanation in your presentation. The content of your presentation is your perception of someone's intentions, except that you presented false information about who should provide quorum at a session of the National Assembly or at committee meetings. It is a practice that has produced completely poor results, and in order to facilitate co-operation and minimum bargaining between the authorities and the opposition, pursuant to Article 222. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to participate in the quorum, are required by all MPs, to whom any of the parliamentary groups belong, the ruling majority or opposition. I ask you to be careful of making false claims, since they are the basis for speaking criminally and according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin. He's not in the O.R. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic. He's not in the O.R. National MP Marko Milenkovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14101	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 100, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27 – The President of the National Assembly takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here I don't mean Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, who does it in a much more sophisticated, elegant way. I think of the vice-president of the National Assembly as chairman, Mrs. Komic, because it is obvious that yesterday is not yet at the level of the task, when it comes to taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. The ageing on the application of the Rules of Procedure by Mrs Comic is not objective, as she extended Mrs Nada Kolundžija and their golden reserve of Tomislav Nikolic, who could talk about the freest topics, while unjustly punishing MP Jadranka Vukovic, on the other hand, by applying double criteria. The application of the Rules of Procedure by standard of double criteria is a direct violation of Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In this way, Article 106, which regulates the moments when it is given and gives notice to the MP, has been broken and Parliament's work is being obstructed and blocked, just like yesterday, when a second warning was given to MP Martinovic, forgetting that it should appear to be in favour of applying democratic principles in Parliament. By the right to freedom of speech and of opinion, of the duties and duties of the MPs of the people, we must all point precisely to all the violations of the Rules of Procedure and to explain this in detail, in order to convince the MPs of your ranks to vote in favour of a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure in the day of voting. It must be for every chairman of the National Assembly to allow us. Of course, I ask that the National Assembly, in the day of the vote, be made aware of the violations of the members of the Rules of Procedure, 27 and 106. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14102	The National Assembly will declare itself, and there are no injuries to Article 27. Neither did you present the true information, nor explained what the injury consisted of. The People's MP, Nada Kolundzija, received the same, as you stated in the presentation, by the archival group president Dragan Todorovic, when he asked for the word as president of the group, before everyone else, and this is about a silent agreement within the heads of the parliamentary groups that, when the will of the MPs, only MPs appear in order to get word and talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, the moment when MPs and Vladan Batic reported themselves, give priority to them. It's a deal from the president of the parliamentary groups. If the president of your parliamentary group has not informed you of this, it does not give you the right to speak in your presentation of Article 27's injury. On the contrary, it violates the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 104, in dealing with the chairman. The National Parliament of Hope Kolundzhija has the same rights and those equal rights as any of the other representatives or authorised representatives and deputies of the parliamentary groups, when the presidents or deputies are not present in the sitting room. Article 106 cannot be the subject of a vote, since it is the duty of the chair to impose a warning measure on him. The violation made by MP Jadranko Vukovic was obvious to the MPs from your MP group and other MPs, and you can inform yourself about this with the MPs from your MP group who tried to restrain him and stop him in breach of the Rules of Procedure, so that there is no unpleasant process of speaking criminally. I now warn you not to abuse the right that you receive under Article 100, that you do not present false information in the presentation at the pay phone, and that you do not demean the National Assembly in general, anyone who presides. I really warn you that next time, a measure will be given in accordance with Article 106, if, following the warning of the chairman, the violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is continued. National MP Aleksandra Jankovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14103	I am very sorry that there is no categorization of these violations of the Rules of Procedure on Light, Medium and Heavy, because I would now report a serious violation of personal dignity, as a psychologist, as a woman, as a folk MP, since I have heard from the head of the DS Group that we are from the opposition, who are in a huge number of presence, and the positions, for a change, are still gone, we are dealing with irrelevant topics. First of all, what I wanted to say is that today we should congratulate the holiday of all those who, with heart and soul and baptism, belong to the Serbian Orthodox Church, who, according to information I received from the minister of religion, have 85% in Serbia. Happy holiday to you, happy Tri-Jerarch. What's important here is that it's three great saints, the Holy Gligor of God, the Holy Vasile of Great and Holy John of Gold, and the unique celebration of these three saints is established on the same day. Why? So in order to eventually prevent conflicts or friction among those we would say to the modern dictionary that fans are one of them and who simply competed in who is the greatest and the best. The lighthouses remained calm and modest, by example, trying to show that the goal of spiritual development is not to develop vanity, but to respect the dignity of the personality of every man, who is a godless being and who, however different he may be in appearance and attitudes, deserves to be respected and listened to. We don't need a new Rules of Procedure either, we don't need this point 104 at the old point – respect for the dignity of the Assembly, in order to be truly honorable people, who are truly in love with their people and their state of Serbia. What's really irrelevant about the topics we wanted to run? All recent research shows that 53% of Serbs are pessimistic and on the verge of depression, for at least nine reasons: price growth, dinar weakness, increase in euro-indexed credits, difficulties in getting new credits, reduction of regular earnings, late payment, lack of extraordinary income, less employment opportunities, and, of course, a greater possibility of firing. Are these really irrelevant topics? Maybe for the head of the DS Parliament Club, because she obviously doesn't live on the same level that her people live in, which is being dumped again today on these slippery streets, she's carrying bags on her feet, because she also has shoes that are so high-quality that it can be used mainly for funerals. It's something we're worth importing from EU countries for one-time use. My dignity as a Serbian woman, as a Christian and a folk MP, has also offended the fact that Manter is making a government for us, that Gross is making us a Rulesman, and Olli Rehn is visiting the "Worship of the Emperor" today, and then inspecting the Parliament, to see who are good and who are not good MPs. Then he's going to make a list of those who are people non grata, to bring her back to Bora, so he's going to sort of intervene. This is also an insult to all of those citizens of Serbia who have finally received a sovereign state, which, according to the UN Security Council Declaration, cannot in any way have violated sovereignty and integrity. If, for example, Obama now accepted that on the case of Serbia (President: three minutes and 30 seconds). )......................................................................................................... Just a little while longer, it analyzes all violations of international law, and in particular Resolution 1244 of the Security Council, it would be a serious black job for him. What has offended me more today, as well as a huge number of MPs present in the opposition, is information from daily newspapers that singer Miroslav Ilic will be our ambassador to Tunisia. The man, however, is still on vacation, and he is considering an offer, which certainly cannot have anything to do with his son-in-law, called the city's "girlfriend", the defence minister. The question is whether Miroslav Ilic is in the DS or SPS, which, in the end, doesn't matter, because they signed what they signed -- "Peace, peace, peace, no one's fault". It is obvious that a diplomatic offensive for the preservation of Kosovo is being conducted this way, probably through "I will break the glass of crystal".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14104	There is no violation of Article 104, nor did you explain in your presentation in which the procedure was violated, except that we have violated the Rules of Procedure together, because you have spoken almost a minute longer than the Rules of Procedure foresees. National MP Dragan Stevanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14105	Mrs. Komic, I would ask you to take advantage of your authority, position and position in this House and to protect the dignity of this assembly, the dignity of each of us MPs sitting in this House, unrelated to the fact that they are sitting on the left or on the right. Here's what my application is about, or my request. I was just talking about an orchestrated hajka, or tactics and strategy, which is aimed at demeaning, demeaning this parliament, the highest legislative body in Serbia, and creating, to say, something that would be the initiation and collapse of a system of values in this country. Today, in one daily paper, the text in which those representing, from my point of view, the social deposit, or social contamination, came down to this Parliament, to all MPs in Parliament, to all of us together, to his dignity, and in a serious way to question the credibility of this highest legislative body. Not the highest legislative body just because we are engaged in this legislative activity, but because of the fact that we were sent here by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Today, a text containing, among other things, this has been published – we require the highest representative body to stop humiliating the citizens of Serbia, to spend huge taxpayers' money on unhappiness and riding, it is time to say enough. The threat continues – we warn that, during the coming crisis and uncertainty, the representatives of the people can face the growing dissatisfaction of citizens due to irresponsible behaviour, etc. If you look back at the end of the text, I will give you this newspaper, and look at who sent the threat to the MPs, behind these threats are the Centre for Regionalism, the European Movement in Serbia, the Civil Initiative, the Helsinki Committee, the Committee of Human Rights, the Independent Society of the Journalists of Vojvodina, the Green Network of Vojvodina, the Open Faces and the Civil-War Relations Centre. Again, I will give myself the right to say, those who represent, absolutely, but absolutely, social contamination in this country, have held back and given themselves the right to collapse through a newspaper text on the most legislative body in this country. I think that, regardless of the political views, it is the responsibility of the president, or of the chairman, or of the Presidency of this assembly to respond to this text and to defend the dignity of the Assembly and to protect the integrity of all the MPs sitting here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14106	Another proof that the opposition MP and I can co-operate for the benefit of this assembly, because in most cases I agree with what you said in your presentation. What I can, as chairman, as a message from the President of the National Assembly, feel that the work of the Assembly is public and that everyone has the right and obligation to criticise our work, but that only through dialogue can we establish the measure of justification of criticism, and that through dialogue we can identify which language anyone can criticise, that is to suggest, if the president is busy, that representatives of the non-governmental sector who have made their critical reference to the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are invited to the Assembly, that with representatives of all political parties, or parliamentary groups, in a direct conversation, exchanges of views on what they are missing, and on our part – what they do not have on the work of MPs. Therefore, I would like to thank Parliamentarian Dragan Stevanovic. National MP Dusan Maric wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14107	Ladies and gentlemen, I must express my satisfaction that Mrs Comic is chairing the session again, because I really appreciate the way she does it. Reporting by article 101 and Article 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14108	People's MP, during this session, there is no right to receive words by calling on Article 226, because it is part of the Rule of Procedure which regulates the rights and duties of Members of Parliament, not injures the procedures and violations of members. You can get the word on another basis, but not this one. Thank you. You'll have to take your word for it again. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14109	Article 27. Rules of Procedure. Not only to leave the chairman, but to keep everything we do here in accordance with the Constitution and the law. I have to draw attention to you, especially the viewers who are following this, while this transmission is still happening, this is not obstruction, this is just an indication of something that is happening, which all Serbian citizens feel is wrong, but it's not being solved. We followed the instructions we received from the president of the National Assembly. We asked for the problem to be resolved within the framework of the institutions, according to Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. We've initiated proceedings before the Administrative Board, but you can see for yourself, Eurofanatics are blocking the Administrative Board, there's no quorum, there's no work, there's no warning on Article 222. We've already heard a very interesting interpretation. With God's help, Mr. Konstantinovic came to us, the sun warmed us up, now the Administrative Board will solve it, you can see that the criticism is bearing fruit. Martinovic, put yourself at your disposal, you see that the tenacity in politics is worth it, you see that we have also brought the chairman of the Administrative Board to finally go into solving this problem, in line with the legal lesson we have received from the National Assembly and the president of the National Assembly. That's the injury. Mrs. Komic, a word of advice is not good when you say that we cannot do it under the Rules of Procedure, and our subject is the Rules of Procedure, it is not good to tell the MP that what he is calling for is a member – in the part of the rights and obligations of the MP. How, then, can he fulfill his rights and obligations if he can't appeal to that member who regulates his rights and obligations? Of course, we are asking that what has been taken be resolved, in the only possible and legal way, Mrs Komic, because, you know, it is not the problem of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the problem is one political violence, and, you don't have to believe me, but also those from abroad, and these state authorities have more and more courage to say that what is happening in The Hague tribunal, in the case against Vojislav Seselj, and that it has something to do with what is happening to our mandates, and that it has to do with what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija and what is happening in the territory of Vojvodina. Of course, you'll say - there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, I have to accept that there is no, but I get the impression that we haven't convinced the public that everything is in order.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14110	People's MP, no harm done to article 27. It is your request to explain how the MP should carry out his duties and duties. By applying the Rules of Procedure, which we all bring together. This means, in particular, that the information and notices needed by the work of the Rules of Procedure - rights and obligations, i.e. rights and duties, and that the Rules of Procedure apply to the part which regulates the course of the session in the Assembly. Any attempt to interfere involves the intention of MPs to abuse the Rules of Procedure, any attempt to explain here that a member of the rights and duties of the Rules of Procedure can be applied, and for the course of the session of the Assembly, gives justification for being far from agreeing that we are together responsible for this institution. Since the agreement cannot be reached, then the chairman must take responsibility and save the institution from harm, and if there was any hope, I would ask you to believe me and that the MP group, which has a bad strategy, save it from unnecessary damage. People's MP Milorad Krstin wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14111	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President and Honorable Citizens of Serbia, reporting on the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, since I have, on several occasions, listened to the presentations of the head of the ZES Parliamentary Group, who has explained here that the SRS has been responsible for the obstruction since Tuesday and that this parliament is in a blockade. I have to remind the citizens of one thing. For a month and a half, Parliament did not work and worked on the moment Radovan Karadzic was arrested. At that time, no one came out to say that the obstruction was made by the ZES, no one said the real reason for the month and a half of this parliament's failure to work, but now shifts everything to the SRS, which is only asking to continue the famous 34th session of the Administrative Committee. I repeat, the parliament has not worked for a month and a half over the arrest of Radovan Karadzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14112	National MP, there is no violation of Article 104, nor have you explained in any part of your presentation, nor have you tried to explain, to which article 100 obliges you, consisting of an infringement of the procedure. I warn you that you do not abuse the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that you do not abuse the right to receive the word and to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which oblige you, by the same right to receive the word, and of what you must declare in your presentation to the National Assembly, which is - which is what the infringement of the procedure consists of. You have not done so, which is the basis for the violation of Article 104 for the sentence of Article 106. Please don't do this. National MP Momir Markovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14113	As I said in my previous presentation, Article 161 of Section 2 was violated when this session was scheduled. If something is scheduled beyond the prescribed conditions, there's no way to get out of it something that's good. Paragraph 2 of Article 161 states: "The legislator of the law is obliged to state in writing the adverse consequences that would result from the adoption of this law by emergency procedure." I have found an explanation in this bill – the reasons for the decision: "The EU accession process implies the harmonisation of domestic legislation with the legal assets of the EU... ", what has an emergency procedure to do with this sentence, further: "... and hence the passing of a large number of new laws." I ask you, Madam Chairman, can MPs get a list of laws that have come to the National Assembly, which are in the process and waiting for the National Assembly to pass them, a list of laws that the Government or other proposings have proposed to the National Assembly, and are just waiting for us to consider and adopt, in order to bring us closer to the EU. I am responsibly saying that, apart from those few we have received, there is no preparation for the procedure and in the procedure of any law. It is further said: "The more efficient and faster procedure for law-making contributes to rationalisation in the work of the National Assembly". They found hot water here. Of course, the adoption of the law contributes to the effectiveness of the work of the National Assembly, but the previous assumptions that the National Assembly would work effectively are not achieved thanks to the theft of the 21st mandate of the SRS, thanks to the fact that the Administrative Committee is not doing its job. Furthermore, it is said: "Being in mind that the working group is working on the new text of the Rules of Procedure to be adopted after the adoption of the Law on the National Assembly, which will have to be brought into line with the Constitution, the motion for these amendments considers that these amendments should be a transitional solution... ". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, who is passing by in this transitional solution? What does a transitional solution mean if the Law on the National Assembly takes a few days, in which week to come to the National Assembly, that we also discuss this law? Why, then, agree on the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure, and discuss the Rules of Procedure again in 20 days? Why don't you pass a law on the National Assembly, why don't you let him go into procedure? Make an appointment for an emergency procedure, and let's discuss it, to pass the Law on the National Assembly, and then to the Rules of Procedure. The Law on the National Assembly still has to be in accordance with the Constitution, because, as I recall, the Constitution is the highest legal act and the Constitution cannot comply with the laws, but with the laws of the Constitution. (President: 3.30 minutes. I'm sorry, just one more sentence. Of course, unless it's in DOS power, in any aggregate state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14114	People's MP, there's no violation of the 161st and 27th members you listed, and you've misused the right to receive words and violated Article 104. Neither have you explained what the injury is, nor is this the moment of the session when you can highlight the infringement of the procedure in the way the session is scheduled; all notifications are read at the time of the session opening. I am seriously warning you, the way you believe you have the right to seek word on the basis of article 100 and to speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure does not imply neither the submission of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the right to obtain the word, the failure of the chairperson to apply the Rules of Procedure, all Members of Parliament and the National Assembly in general. It is your obligation that, when you get the word, you say which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured and what the injury is, which you did not do. Because it's not about hurting the procedure. The saddest part is that you and I know it. Please make this the last time you abuse the right you've been given to receive a word. Any subsequent case will be punished by the measures laid down in Article 106. The word has been made by MP Zoran Popovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14115	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure, because I need certain notices from the Privatisation Agency, to be able to perform the function of the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14116	People's MP, you can't get a word based on an article. 226 and request notice during this session, which is under way. Thank you. National MP Dusan Maric wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not serve to abuse them, but to use them and thus contribute to the successful work of this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14117	Reporting under Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I believe that several times during her presentation, the president of the DS Parliament Club, Mrs. Hope Kolundji, severely injured the dignity of the National Assembly, above all, of the SRS Parliamentary Group. What's this about? Mrs Kolundzhija has repeatedly underlined that we here are discussing insignificant matters, on the one hand, while, on the other hand, adoption in this assembly, in the procedure, awaits extremely important laws that will allow Serbia to move closer to the EU and improve Serbia's standard of living. As Serbian citizens see what we are doing here, it is up to them to assess whether it is good, whether it is in their interest or not. I am obliged to show the other side of the medal, in order to show what the violation of dignity is, to introduce the citizens of Serbia and the MPs to several very important laws waiting for them in the procedure of the National Assembly. The first is the proposal for a law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and the distribution of hydrocarbons, then, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Rotterdam Convention on the procedure of granting consent on the basis of the prior notification of certain dangerous chemicals and pesticides. A million unemployed in Serbia are looking forward to the adoption of these laws. Then, the draft e-commerce law. The cattlemen at the cave highlands, farmers in Vojvodina and Pomoravlje, too, are looking forward to the adoption of this law, so let's start with electronic trade. Please be careful now, the draft law confirming the Agreement establishing an international classification of the figurative elements of stamps, made up in Vienna on 12 June 1973. If we don't adopt this, the state goes down. Fourth, the draft law on brandy and other alcoholic beverages. The Fifth Law is a proposal for a law on ethanol. Very important for 6,000 workers from the Great Plan who have been kicked out of work on the street; when they have nothing to eat, at least drink according to EU standards. The Sixth Law is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on reproductive material of the forest trees. If we are not already able to improve ethnicity among Serbs, we should at least do it amongst the letters. The eighth law is a bill on animal welfare. Five hundred thousand Serbian citizens, who, according to official statistics, live below the poverty line, are looking forward to the adoption of this animal welfare law. The next law is a bill confirming the Geneva Act of the Hague Agreement on the International Registration of Industrial Design, adopted at the Diplomatic Conference in 1999. So, in the opinion of Mrs Nada Kolundzhija, these are very important laws that will improve the standard of living for Serbian citizens, and we are preventing this from being discussed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the SRS' kidnapped mandates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14118	National MP, there is no violation of Article 104 if the injury could not have been treated that you did not properly address National MP Nadia Kolundji. So, the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundzija is the President of the Parliament Club of the ZES and the sensitivity to what we call ourselves is quite high in your parliamentary group, and I ask you to take care of that when you address other Members of the People, not just because we are bound by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You did not explain what the breach of the Rules of Procedure consisted of, except that you violated Article 104, because in your presentation you said that you knew exactly what laws of the speakers, the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, which was incorrect. People's MPs earn a phone book - a pay phone. "Specials" is the noun of a female, the noun of a male is "speaker." The Serbian language has extensions for women's names. I see that the overwhelming comment is to throw out the MPs of the people, and I take it as my right to remind you that one of the people's MPs behind this speaker was spoken of in the male race, and you are forgiven. Although ignorance does not release guilt. Please, using article 100 and wanting to say that there's been an injury to article 100, you're not violating that member alone. Otherwise, there will be coercion for the application of Article 106. National MP Boris Aleksic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14119	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I'm advertising a violation of article 27. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which reads as follows: 'The President of the National Assembly', also applies to the chairman, 'He does the work envisaged by the Constitution, chaired by the meetings of the National Assembly, took care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, took care of the timely work of the working bodies of the National Assembly', we see that we have problems with the Administrative Committee, 'and other tasks foreseen by law and this Rules of Procedure. ''Mrs. Comić, whom we all respect, has given herself the right to suspend the head of 16 - the rights and duties of the Members of Parliament, which is contained in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. When Mr Krasic asked why she did it, she said she had to take responsibility. I don't know which member of the Rules of Procedure gives you the opportunity, specifically, to take responsibility and to suspend part of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Watch out now...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14120	National MP, you have no right to speak of suspending any part of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, especially since it is not the case that happened during the session of the National Assembly today, yesterday or tomorrow. Please resist the ease of jeopardizing the way this institution works. No part of the Rules of Procedure has been suspended. It is a very serious accusation, and I ask you to keep your mouth shut until the end of the two minutes at your disposal to express such a weightlessness at the speaker of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14121	Mrs. Komic, I am truly grateful for this notification, but you yourself said that no members of the Rules of Procedure in Chapter 16. That's what you said yourself, and you said it a few times. So, why have you been applying them since June? Why did the June MPs have the right to report...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14122	National MP, it has been warned several times that the abuse of the right to a word obtained under Article 100(1) will not be tolerated. Several times it has been explained here why, since and in what way it is allowed to apply during the session of the article. 225 and 226. Your choice is whether you will be informed by your president of the parliamentary group, the deputy president of the parliamentary group or your colleague, who was in the O.R. while the explanation lasted. It is my duty to warn you that you cannot abuse the right to receive words and speak falsely, to inquire about the explanations already given during this working day. Thank you, People's Parliament. National MP Radisa Ilic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14123	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the article. In 198 and 199 dealing with parliamentary matters...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14124	The MP, more than clear, is that a word based on article 100 can be obtained if you specify what of the proceedings is injured during the session, in any other case. Members of 198 and 199 cannot be harmed during this session and during this session. Thank you. I'm setting a break for an hour. We'll continue our work in the afternoon at 15 o'clock. Thank you. [[After a break, in 15.05.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary clubs or vice presidents answering for a word? The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14126	I do not believe that Mrs Comic would make such a failure to ignore the list of MPs reported in the Rules of Procedure. I am reporting on the basis of article 27, and I absolutely support, Mrs. Komic, your efforts to adhere to article 27. Rules of Procedure at a time when you're sitting in the chair's seat. It is your obligation in any case, just, as many times as I've read the Rules of Procedure, I haven't seen any post script that says, "Apply to the MPs of the SRS." So the Rules of Procedure apply, and all that are the rights and obligations of the Members of the People, to all. I don't want to talk about the noise and throwing on the other side, for the simple reason that it is clear to each of us that this Parliament is not a library and that it is perfectly normal that there is even some communication between MPs, even some throw. It never bothered us, and we've never turned our attention to such a thing, but since it's common on your part, from the ruling majority, Mrs. Komic, it's amazing that you don't notice it, but you notice if you're getting something, or some MP speaking from this place, a MP from the SRS. It is not good, Mrs. Comic, to distinguish between MPs, we are all here with the same rights and obligations. All of us Serbian citizens have been sent to this parliament. You have a problem, you as the ruling majority, which has allowed this parliament to function in an unconstitutional state. You've allowed 21 people to sit here instead of 21 MPs of the SRS, 21 people, some who were once members, including MPs of the SRS. I am now addressing the ruling majority and sending a message through you to Boris Tadic and the citizens of Serbia – that is your problem, you have made an unconstitutional state in Parliament, and this is not the first time. You remember the time when you threw out a whole group of MPs, so when it was 310, instead of 250 MPs, it was voted from Bodrum, then from Thessaloniki. So it's all something that's been following you since you introduced so-called democracy into Serbia. Now, I ask you, Mrs. Komic, that when you apply the Rules of Procedure, you have the same archaic towards all the MPs. I'm sorry about that, but we're going to have to explain this more times on a specific case.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14127	People's MPs, no harm done to article 27. The impression you made is false, and I would ask that we take account of the composition of the exhibit and the explanations for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. We must respect the other members of the Rules of Procedure as regards the preservation and respect, not demeaning, of the National Assembly. So you would have to find at least one example if the Rules of Procedure had not been equally applied to any of the MPs who had violated the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately for me, the number of reminders that have been made is higher when it comes to the SRS parliamentary group than when it comes to the MEP Group for European Serbia, but I have given them to the members of both parliamentary groups. That's what I did, and that's what I'm gonna do. Please don't abuse the right to receive a word based on Article 100. If we want to explain the breach of the procedure, then let us explain where this injury was done, because what you have tried is not an explanation and it is easy to prove that I have the exact same attitude toward all 249 MPs of the National Assembly in the application of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14128	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 27th and Article 31 have been violated. Rules of Procedure, so I'll quote, which won't count in three minutes. Article 31: "The Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly shall assist the President of the National Assembly in doing business from his work. The President of the National Assembly, in the event of temporary prevention, replaces one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly, whom he appoints, which he informs all vice-presidents and secretaries of the National Assembly. If the President of the National Assembly does not determine which of the vice presidents replace him, in the event of temporary prevention, he will be replaced by the oldest vice president." As far as I know, Mrs. Komic, Mr. Novakovic is the oldest vice president, as a gentleman, he admitted it to me, and I didn't mind checking it out on the National Assembly website either. You are not authorized by the president, or is in some personal agreement with Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14129	People's MPs, you can't tell the lies behind the speaker of the National Assembly. I ask you to explain your attempt to comply with the other members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I immediately inform you that there has not been a case of temporary prevention, and I ask you not to abuse the right to receive a word, and under Article 100(1), it has been said several times that this is the basis for giving a warning measure, based on Article 106 - disregard and disrespect for the National Assembly and the collapse of the reputation of the National Assembly, so I ask you to take your argument of harming the rules and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14130	Then I ask, notice as vice-president of the National Assembly – why at this time the President does not chair the session, if it is not temporary...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14131	National MPs, you cannot ask for notice of this type if you have received a word per Article 100(1) – to explain the infringement of the procedure during this session. For the second time, I warn you that this is the basis for the application of Article 106 and the pronunciation of the warning measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14132	I give you my first warning for disrespect...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14133	National MPs, Natasa Jovanovic, I give you the first warning for disrespect of the National Assembly, for demeaning the right to word and for destroying the reputation of the National Assembly, because of the position that we can play with the rules, which are clearly written in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in which case and by which rules a word is received on the basis of Article 100, on which each MP is bound. People's MPs who you throw from both the left and the right and you distract me while I chair, please let us all read, if we haven't so far, the provisions of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure – what is allowed and what is not allowed when it comes to the session of the National Assembly. People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14134	Dear fellow Members of the People, the President-in-Office, I don't know, as you would say, 'what' you have warned your colleague who is helping you in your work, Mrs. Natashi Jovanovic, but about Article 105, which I am advertising, item 1, which says it's the turn at the meeting of the National Assembly of the Old President of the National Assembly or the Chairman, if the National Assembly is not there. In front of the entire Serbian public and in front of all these MPs sitting in Parliament today, you have proved that, not only do you not take care of the order, but you are causing chaos in the National Assembly. I don't know why you're doing this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14135	People's MPs, you cannot speak falsely of the speaker of the National Assembly in an attempt to abuse the right to receive a word on the basis of Article 100(1). He's sitting here, electronic system registered, us 47, visually, probably, no longer speaking that during this session, the moment you express your position that there's been an injury procedure, there's any kind of chaos. Please give your address and mutual treatment to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14136	The Honorable Chairman, here we are, taking care of, as you say, everything that's going on in the assembly. Do you not allow me to have my own opinion and opinion? Do you want to break the Constitution, by not allowing me to express my position and how I am experiencing your chairmanship of the National Assembly? I think it's absolutely my right, and you can disagree. You can answer me from the chair's seat, and you can ask for a word and come out on the line, which would be very good, to rephrase me and tell me what it is that you disagree with, or why my position is indisputable to yours, and to see who's right, and not to abuse the chairman's seat and to rule out occasionally, as you already wish, a speaker coming out for a pay phone. I just wanted to warn you there's no need to raise your tension and make a concentration camp out of this Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14137	Please take seriously the warning that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will be strictly applied. It is not the freedom of speech that you call the National Assembly a concentration camp, not even a metaphor, nor did you get the word to express your impressions and attitudes about how someone leads or does not hold a session of the National Assembly. You received the word on the basis of Article 100(1). You're under the obligation to state which member is injured and explain the breach of the procedure. There's no room for impressions, and there's no room for false facts. Please explain, in the minute that you have left at your disposal, what the infringement of the procedure, Article 105, consists of. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14138	Thank you, Madam Chairman, I will use this minute in the best possible way. So I'm going to read one more time, Section 105 of Section 1 says that it's okay for a session of the National Assembly of the Old President of the National Assembly. All of what you're doing, how many times you've interrupted my exposure, and you've failed to prove that I'm wrong that you're making a mess in this assembly, proves that I'm right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14139	There's no breach of Article 105. I really ask you that, in the exercise of the right to receive words under Article 100(1), we together respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to explain what the infringement of the procedure is and which member is injured during the session of the National Assembly, which is why the MP must seek word based on Article 100(1). National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14140	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 27, item 3) – the President, or whoever is chairing the National Assembly, takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would ask you, Mrs. Komic, to conduct a assembly session so as not to be party-defined when it comes to members of one party or another party, or your party, but to have the same archaic towards all. I think that would be, first of all, good for you and DS. As far as the SRS is concerned, we don't care. You've got your hands off and you're gonna do the way you do, we don't mind. We've experienced here, in this room, that the Special Police are also breaking in and bringing us out, what they haven't done, punished us, etc.; those who did so were sitting in these places where you are sitting now. It seems to me that the same fate awaits you, that you will move up, and in that place someone else will sit. Those who sit will be decided by Serbian citizens. At a time when I was not present, in the afternoon debate, the president of the ZES Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Kolundji, presented a great lie and I think you were obliged to act, as chairman, given that you had just intervened, believing that what the MP is saying is not true, although you do not have the right to judge and judge in any way whether something is true or not. It is a matter of the MP, or the public, to assess whether it is true or not. Mrs. Nada Kolundzija has expressed a view that is simply an inappropriate, completely reverse thesis, something that you try all the time – that you are responsible for accusing the SRS. You remember how much time was spent yesterday just to find out at what time the Administrative Committee was held, that some MPs were unjustly warned because they didn't know what time it was, regardless of your justification, that Hope Kolundzia would say today that we were blackmailing Parliament. Please, is that appropriate to common sense? We're blackmailing, because we're asking you to do business under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and you're the ones who are working in accordance with the interests of the citizens, with the law, with the Constitution, so you're deluding in such a way that as you did yesterday, you scheduled a session that you knew in advance would not be held, because you agreed that there was no quorum, which is completely transparent, you announce that it would be tomorrow, we're losing the third day of the simple matter. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm sorry, I didn't follow, I'll call back later. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14141	That is why there is a chairman, to monitor whether the speaker speaks as to how much the Rules of Procedure is intended to wish to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You said he was a injured member of 27. It's not. I take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and the strict application of the Rules of Procedure. Once again, for MPs who have not read, or have not been able to read, and notice that the procedure has been violated, Article 100, and the right to receive a word before others, in order to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, implies the obligation of the MP to quote which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured during the procedure and the work of the National Assembly, to explain what the infringement is, to listen to the explanation of the chairman, whether or not the injury occurred, and then, in the re-election of the word, declare whether he wants to hurt the Rules of Procedure, which he quoted and explained, the Assembly declared in the day of the vote. It's the application of the Rules of Procedure. That's what I do. Everything else is an abuse or an attempt to abuse the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since our silent agreements on the abuse and application of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have not produced any results and no progress in, in our opinion, the common idea of negotiating work, and the abuse is to apply art. 225 and 226, and not Article 222, from the part of law and duty, there will be no more violations of the Rules of Procedure by giving the right to a word. The abuse is to allow only a member to be quoted after the words, and not to be reasoned, and it will not be possible anymore, because it is not the application of the Rules of Procedure, and it is here with MP Dragan Todorovic that fully agrees. Every chairman is here to strictly apply the Rules of Procedure, and I do. Your observations, or the impression that the Rules of Procedure are not applied to the same arches, are incorrect and there is enough evidence in the stenogram to see this. I ask you not to abuse our right to a word so that we may speak falsely of the speaker of the National Assembly. That the National Assembly is called a concentration camp, that this session is called chaos, will not be allowed. This is a violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I warn you that using such a language will be the basis for the application of Article 106, giving a warning measure. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14142	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, since I haven't completed my previous announcement and I've exceeded my time, I'm now going to speak 30 seconds less. Please, if I don't notice for two minutes and 30 seconds, remind me to return to my seat. Mrs. Comic, before I go for an explanation, there's something I need to tell you. Of the living people of this world, only the pope is considered infallible, the other mortals believe that God is infallible. By explaining your role, you are in some way doubting that perhaps you have not taken on too many rights, which do not belong to you. I have no doubt that you believe what you're saying, but let me, we're mortal people, we're all wrong, so some philosophers will tell you that you're probably wrong, not because you want it and you love it, simply because we're human, so that's why you can get in the situation to make a mistake. What I wanted to say in my first report, about Nada Kolundji and the attempt to deceive Serbian citizens, is that you did not react, and you had the opportunity and the need to react, because Mrs Kolundjia and you were led astray yesterday, by the fact that she was from the pay phone, which no one knew about, nor the MP clubs, nor the members of the Administrative Committee. That is why such a crowd, a fama in the Serbian Parliament, was created because MPs, first of all, of the SRS, were provoked to find out whether the Administrative Committee would be held or not. Now, when we take the matter to an end, the Administrative Board is not held because it was prevented by the DS, not because there was no quorum, which is why you are trying to deceive Serbian citizens again, because the quorum was not needed. It's a follow-up to the previous session. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14143	Your explanation for the violation of article 27 is gone. I don't know if the Pope or God are infallible. I can doubt the Pope must be wrong. I don't know about God, but those two, one thing for sure, are dealing with a lot more complicated things than I am. I have a job to apply Article 100, which says - an MP who wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure gets a word over the line, based on Section 1. Paragraph 2 says - the MP who received the word must quote which provision of the Rules of Procedure has been violated and explain what the infringement is in. The next point is that the chairman is obliged to explain what happened to that injury. The last stance says the MP has the right to request that the Assembly declare whether the infringement occurred in the voting day, if he is unhappy with what the chairman explains. The thing is so simple, I don't believe the Pope would do it. I don't think you should. As far as God's concerned, I can only say he's worth seeing, more or less. Now you've got the word and you haven't explained what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is and there's no way to explain what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is, Art. 27, because those injuries were gone. The content of your exposure is not for the course of this session. Please, and I'm warning you, we're not abuse of the right to the word. The right to the word is precious and won the right. Let's not abuse him. We have all the space in this joint house that what we consider our right to achieve in the place where it is achieved, and here to follow the application of the Rules of Procedure, strictly. We don't need a pope, we don't need a God. Serbia is a world country. It's our responsibility to apply the rules. National MP Dusan Maric wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14144	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Article 104 because I believe that an hour ago my dignity as a National MP, the dignity of the National Assembly, and the dignity of all the MPs of the Christian religion was severely injured. An hour ago, from the professional services of the Serbian Parliament, the SRS Parliament Club received a calendar that rudely insults the dignity of the National Assembly with its content. What's this about? Serbia's assembly printed a 2009 calendar. I'm asking the cameraman to zoom in on this. The "Serbian Parliament" is written in a Latin letter. This not only violates the dignity of the National Assembly and the People's MPs, on this holy day, but is severely violated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 10. The Serbian Constitution -- in the Republic of Serbia, the official use of the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter. I would accept it as acceptable and would not interpret it as an insult that the calendar was printed in a bilingual letter, so that we had both Cyrillic and Latin. We of the SRS, who are tolerant and respect national minorities, would accept it as a gesture of reconciliation and co-operation. However, it is unacceptable for the Serbian Parliament to print a calendar with a Latin letter and thus violate the Serbian Constitution. In the past few days, we have had the opportunity to read in the newspaper and look at photographs of how the tablets with the names of the place in Hungarian are placed throughout the Vojvodina. No sign of the Cyrillic, no sign of the Serbian letter. Now I heard the information that the Vienna Assembly made a decision, they adopted the appearance of coat of arms in Latin. No Cyrillic, no Serbian. What is even more offensive than the letter used to print this calendar is the contents of the calendar. I'm sorry, since I'm running out of time, so I don't overstep it, I'm gonna report back to the Rules of Procedure, because I can't explain this insult in 20 seconds, how much time I have left at my disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14145	National MP, in the 20 seconds that you have left, you could have put a few sentences in which an apology would have been made to the National Assembly of Truths that you made during an attempt to explain the infringement procedure, Article 104. The National Assembly has not printed any calendars, and you know it very well, since you have received the calendar in your hands on a gift, you know that you have received it in parliamentary groups and that the National Assembly has not printed any calendars. The second part of disrespect for the National Assembly, mocking the right to receive the word under Article 100, is the second part of your argument, in which you were working on the design of a calendar that was not printed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and all you have stated is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, because none of what you have said has anything to do with the procedure and during the session of the National Assembly. If there's a good illustration of how we mock the institution we're sitting in, then that's the exposure you've now had. I am seriously warning you that such abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly cannot be tolerated and that, in case you try to mock the National Assembly like this again, I will be forced to apply Article 106. The Messengers of the people earn, and the gendarmes. Not to the gendarmes, but to Article 106, which implies that the measure should be punished by that MP who no longer leaves the chairman with any alternative. Please do not do this, because it is not good for any parliament, and especially for the Serbian Parliament, in which we want to build relations of shared responsibility for the functioning of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14146	Mrs. Komic, I am reporting on the basis of Article 27, confident that you will allow me to come to the end of my argument, to finally explain to you that we are trying to draw attention to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You didn't allow any SRS MPs today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14147	I ask you not to speak falsely at the speaker of the National Assembly. I'll quote you, you just said that no SRS MP is allowed to explain his position that there has been a breach of the procedure, that is, a violation of one of the Rules of Procedures of the National Assembly. By 15 hours, in the afternoon part of the Assembly, there were 59 announcements by all the MPs who wanted to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Of these 59, at least 49 were members of the SRS Parliamentary Group. I warn you that I consider mocking the National Assembly, demeaning the National Assembly, your position that you think you have the right to go out, you get the word based on article 100, and you say, "you have not allowed any SRS MP to explain what the breach of the Rules of Procedure consists of." Please do not repeat that attitude in the follow-up of your two-minute and 30-second exposure, because it will be a cause for a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14148	Personally, I feel now that you have violated my dignity, based on Article 104. Rules of Procedure, when you said you thought my argument was mocking the National Assembly. I wonder, indeed, what would happen to me and what kind of punishment would happen to me if I said that I consider mocking your way of running a session. Of course, I'm not going to say that, because you're doing it the way you're supposed to do it. Today there is Ollie Rehn, today you should probably show strictness towards the MPs of the SRS. I'll try to reach Article 27, item 1, point 1, point 2 and 3. Point 3 - The President shall take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. That's what you're trying to stop a MP who wants to tell you what it means to take care of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's not, Mrs. Comic, your unhinged right to say, "No harm, I'm getting very old."
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14149	People's MPs, please let's really watch what we say at the pay phone. At no point, at any point in time, I didn't say, "I'm getting very old." If you intend to explain in the three minutes available to you that the chairman has violated Article 27, then I ask you to concentrate your reasoning in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, expose it to the MPs and do not make it false. Not at any time, not at all, not today, not before, nor will I say – I am an excellent ageer. I say, there is no harm, and on the question of why I am bringing some measure, I say, on the basis of Article 27 and the fact that I have to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You have one minute and 15 seconds to complete an explanation of Article 27's injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14150	Thank you very much, if I may, of course. I'll remind you of a time when you were also vice president of the National Assembly, when, by the same article, we of the SRS said that someone in the National Assembly voted from Bodrum. From that place, you claimed the same thing you're saying now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14151	And it's a lie, People's Messengers. I give you my first warning. You've had two warnings that you're not giving lies to the speaker of the National Assembly. In addition to being false, it is not in any way related to the infringements of the procedure during this session and cannot be part of the reasoning, which indicates that you are violating Article 104 and the provisions on the obligation to respect one another in the conduct and the provisions on the respect of the National Assembly. You have 35 seconds to complete the explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14152	I'll try, of course, if you'll let me. What you're saying is that returning to the Bodrum affair has nothing to do with what's going on right now, that's your attitude. This is where I come out with the political attitude of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14153	The People's Parliament, I warn you, has not been given the floor to explain your political position, nor is there a debate on any part of the agenda. People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic says she said it. It's not. You said that I said you couldn't hold political burdens. We'll watch, by looking at the stenogram, that when you were told to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic said that I was saying that no political circulation was allowed. I said it wasn't true, and I repeat it's not true. I tell the People's Parliament to Veriqa Radeti that the word based on Article 100 has not been obtained in the context of the debate and there is no room to express a political position. It is your obligation to explain the nature of the infringement of the procedure, and this is a strict application of the Rules of Procedure, I repeat, on the basis of Rule 27 – it is an example of the application of the Rules of Procedure. You have 20 seconds to complete the explanation of the injury procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14154	Mrs. Comic, I'm gonna use eight more seconds. I've been quiet for 12 seconds. Since you do not allow me to explain in words how you are violating the Rules of Procedure, I have tried to keep quiet, but obviously, I will have to do it again during the day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14155	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic insists he has the advantage. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14156	Thank you very much, Mrs. Comic. I am advocating Article 104 of Item 2 - People's MPs are obliged to address each other with respect, counting on both ordinary MPs and those who chair the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Comic. Whatever the situation is, and what you're experiencing in some way, believe that, as far as the SRS is concerned, we have no intention of provoking. We simply need to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now, first of all, I want to tell you, Mrs. Comic, that your evaluations, really, believe me, can't be very modest. Take the Hague tribunal, which is the concept of injustice, the twisted judiciary, and even there, at least, finance some process, some attempts to act in accordance with some of the UN tribunal's statutes and procedures. I assume you're closely following the trial of Vojislav Seselj and, when the problem arises, it's a search bigger, which makes three judges, it's being arranged, so they vote, you see, two judges "yes", one "against". Mrs. Comic, since you currently have two other vice-presidents here, I don't think it would be a bad idea to consult, especially if you are in a dilemma, etc., so, yes, surely, make a fairer decision. But let me help you. If an MP came out and advertised a violation of members from Articles 1 to 27, it could really be considered an obstruction, as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, because you have nothing to say about how the National Assembly is established, the election of vice presidents, etc. If an MP appeared now and reported a violation of those members, it would indeed be insurmountable and obvious violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Komic, everything from members 27th to the last member, with these amendments and additions, is the right to consider MPs, because it stands in that Rules of Procedure and that is logical. Regardless of all the reasons, you must recognize that it is the right of the MPs. Article 104 allows, when a person is found directly offended, injured, and advertised, but has the right of a National MP... I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14157	I thank MP Dragan Todorovic for his suggestions. You're absolutely right that my evaluations don't have to be proportionate. That is why there is a day for the vote and the will of the MP to seek, dissatisfied with the explanation, because, I agree with you, my evaluations do not have to be proportionate, that the National Assembly be declared in the day of the vote. I also agree with the suggestion that if there is a dilemma, I shall consult my fellow vice presidents. I don't have any dilemmas about being a 100th member quite simply applied. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: That scares me. ) You say it scares you, but your expression says that you are looking forward to it, which the whole Serbian public can see. I really thank you both for your conduct and for the way you explained the idea of what the chairman should do. People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14158	The Honorable Presidency, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, I advertise the violation of the article. 100, 103, 104 and 105. Rules of Procedure. If you'll excuse me, I'll try to explain it in these three minutes at my disposal. Why a member of 100? Because this member allows the MP to specify which provisions of the Rules of Procedure have been violated, as I have now come out, to quote those provisions. He can talk about it for three minutes, he doesn't care about the time it takes to quote, and Section 3 says the president of the National Assembly is obliged to, after that, make an explanation. So, after those three minutes that are at our disposal, not during those three minutes, while we're talking here, and you're interrupting us. Article 4 says that if we are not satisfied, and you have to ask us if we are satisfied with your explanation, because you are obliged to give us an explanation, we say that we are not satisfied and we are asking that the Parliament in the day to vote declare it. You didn't do it in this afternoon's session once, you didn't ask us once if we were satisfied with your explanation, and everyone could see that you interrupted us multiple times during the presentation. So, I believe that you have violated the Rules of Procedure and, while I am still at the speaker, I pray that in the day for the vote of all our advertising Rules of Procedure be put to the vote when the time is right. Article 103 says that no one can interrupt the speaker, nor warn him, except the president of the National Assembly, in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. So, not according to some subjective notion of yours, in order to cause some excess, some conflict, I assume it's in your interest, my personal, subjective feeling is such, and it doesn't necessarily mean that I'm right, and those members are, I suppose, interpreting the Rules of Procedure, and I believe you'll agree with me, Art. 106, 107, and 108, those who speak about how certain measures are expressed, if the chairman considers that the MP has done something that deserves a warning or some other punishment. So don't abuse that place of yours. I think you've broken Article 103 and again, while I'm at the pay phone, I'm asking that in the voting day, we say that. Don't let the fluids of democracy in this bizarre way, as they do today, collapse. I thought we'd laid those baby goddesses a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14159	There's no injury, sir. 103, 104 and 106. As an injury, the MP explained the interruption of the speaker or pay phone during the presentation, or explained the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Only when, with a sentence, a MP or MP who has the right to speak, violates the Rules of Procedure, I act by my obligation from other members, interrupts, and I warn that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are not violated. It's a warning for debate. As far as the MPs are concerned, I believe that no warning should be made before warning is given that there is a possibility, or that there is room for measures. That's the reason. When I see that there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I don't say a warning, we can see for ourselves, but I'm just saying a warning, please don't do that. I have no obligation, no business, no practice, to ask the MP if he's satisfied. When a MP concises his statement of injury, he has the freedom and full right to express his wish, in a situation where he first explains the injury, or to seek word and then to say that he wants the assembly to plead. Please, with careful reading, you can see that I strictly apply the Rules of Procedure in all its provisions. You have expressed your desire to declare what you have explained as a violation of the Rules of Procedure to the National Assembly. Yes, the National Assembly will declare an objection issued by Parliamentarian Gordana Pop-Lazic on the violation of quoted members of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I announce the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 33, where it is said: "The Secretary of the National Assembly helps the president and vice-presidents of the National Assembly to prepare and conduct meetings, manages the Service of the National Assembly, takes care of the implementation of the conclusions of the National Assembly, performs other tasks by law and this Rules of Procedure. "Mrs. Comic, I'm sure you didn't do it on purpose, but, with a glimpse of the stenogram, you said that these calendars could have been brought by anyone and you don't know, about who brought them. I consulted the MP's group's secretary and said the calendars were brought by an official of the Republika Srpska Assembly, or a courier. Look, gentlemen of the Parliament, and look at you, Mrs. Komic, this picture, on your left hand, with this red tape, with these signs (the National MP shows the calendar), which can be interpreted however he likes. The first association is on a cowardly cross. Someone might say it's four Ss, but I'd say it's just abused, and this means to me, a cowardly cross. I'm asking you, Mrs. Comic, to determine seriously where these calendars come from. How is it possible that if they were not printed by the Serbian Parliament, they would reach the Assembly and be distributed to parliamentary groups? I didn't get a chance to look at all these pictures, but look what kind of joke is going on. Look at the five-pointer, and inside the five-point cross. How long do you think you're destroying everything that's Serbian and all that's sacred to the Serbian people? This really crosses every possible limit. Instead of taking care and protecting this institution, you are doing everything you can not to find the one responsible for this, the one who allowed this calendar to enter the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Take a look at the next picture - diploma, says the EU. Is this the end of Morava open to the EU? I'm not going to break the Rules of Procedure, but I want to hand these calendars over to the Secretary of the National Assembly, get them back and let this never happen again. (The MP gives calendars to the Secretary of Parliament. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14161	People's messenger, you've brought lies to the speaker of the National Assembly. All that you have said is contrary to what I have said as a comment to Ambassador Dusan Maric. National MP Dusan Maric came out for a pay phone and said the National Assembly had printed the calendars and then, in an attempt to explain that it was terrible and that it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it showed calendars. I said it was a mockery to the National Assembly. Unfortunately, I must repeat, you have continued to mock the National Assembly by saying that the infringement of the procedure is the fact that the secretary has allowed some material to enter the Assembly. Your attempt and the Group of Members' strategy to mock all that is happening in the congregations and otherwise, represents, unfortunately, a failed attempt to show it through an injury procedure. Given the applause that's coming to me while I claim you're mocking the Parliament, MP, I think I've taken your parliamentary group. He wants me for the president, not you. Thank you. (All the time the speaker spoke, the MPs of the SRS applauded. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14162	Now you've spoken, so we must first, Jadranka Vukovica, so you, as head of the parliamentary group. You can't do this right now. Mr. Jadranko Vukovic is advertising his Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14163	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Slavica, I will now be more precise, Article 104. I will quote attitudes 2 and 3 - the People's Messengers are obliged to address one another with respect. The use of offensive expressions is not permitted, nor is it allowed to give facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, Vice-President of the Assembly, Mrs. Gordana Comic, chairing this session in the afternoon, accused me of banging and punishing me without any evidence, without any facts. Of course, she provoked me to react from the bench that I didn't do it. I wanted to tell Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, vice president, that she and Mr. Novakovic are leading the Assembly very correctly. In order for your associates to successfully lead this congregation, when you punish me as an apostle, as a man, I should be pleased to say, "I am guilty, I am punished." Mrs. Comic, when she holds the presidency, keeps on lurking whom she will baselessly punish. I am taking this opportunity, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, to tell you that on the Committee on Agriculture, Srboljub Zivanovic sat next to me. It's the same about this member. Srboljub Zivanovic has not said a word. By task, I believe it is not yours, the chairman says.Srboljub Zivanovic needs to go outside, and security comes. That's when I reacted for him. He didn't say one word. I draw your attention, you who lead this House must not be personal. You must be correct; when I was wrong, when I was pounding, punish me, no problem. I didn't do it today, so I have the impression that Mrs. Comic has something personal against me and my parliamentary group. Turn her attention so that the future, when she changes you, acts correctly, if she wants us to be correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14164	The word is Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14165	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I am reporting under Article 104 of Item 2 - People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. Mrs. Comic, you must know that we are parties to the democratic province and that we do not have to think the same thing at all. When we express satisfaction or dissatisfaction over an attitude or speech, you need to understand it in the best possible way. As for the fact that you could take over the MP's club, Mrs. Comic, it would be an extremely great pleasure for me to have you do it, with some advances to be done. So, you need to get out of the DS, join the SRS, get your mandate back, because we're not gonna take anybody in with someone else's mandate, but we're not giving ours either, so that's clear to you, Mrs. Comic. Therefore, you are welcome to the SRS, you must meet these conditions that I have told you, and, by signing the accession, it is understood that you also accept the Statute of the SRS. Let's go back to what I advertised here, that you're obliged to address with respect. Yet, in some ways, you are milder or rougher, as anyone experiences me, underestimating your attitudes regarding my performance. This isn't about a breach of procedure. The member I advertised speaks of duties, duties of the Secretary of the Assembly. One of his duties is to keep an eye on what is happening in the congregation. Its obligation is to look at what material arrives in the Assembly and react before it happens, before the MPs are disturbed, in this way the public reacts, because it is his obligation. I don't believe it's someone's personal interest or the Secretary of Parliament's interest. I don't believe that. This is how it turns out that whoever comes to the Assembly can come to whoever they want, bring the material, it's delivered to the MPs' groups. Take it just so it happens that, for example, national minority parliamentary groups arrive at some material that would be provocative to them. God forbid, Mr. Omerovic, no one would wash us off without saying someone did it on purpose. (President: Time. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14166	Mr. Markicevic has the advantage, because he replaces the president, the head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14167	Dear Presidents, fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, I appeal to Article 226 and ask for a notice. We almost didn't notice...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14168	You can't speak per article. 225 and 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14169	Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14170	It's been explained several times today, so you have to or some other member...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14171	Is article 226 suspended? I need a notice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14172	You can't. Nothing in the paper happened from yesterday to today. It was on that article yesterday. So there's no new...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14173	You don't think this is the reason? I want Serbian citizens to see what they put in the National Assembly in the offices of parliamentary clubs. We are the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are the national representatives... (The People's MPs of the SRS stood up and stood by their benches. [[Disabled microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14174	Mr. Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14175	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honored Chairman, I advertise Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, where the President of the National Assembly takes good care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For two days now, we have been present here with the strange leadership of this assembly, and you have authorized, I presume, the vice president, Mrs. Comic, to lead these parliamentary sessions of ours. Mrs. Komic, absolutely, does not respect the Rules of Procedure. I have pointed out the breach of this Rules of Procedure, Article 100, where it can be clearly seen that after our presentation, when we point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it is necessary to determine whether we are satisfied or not with the answer and interpretation given to us by the Vice President of the National Assembly. Mrs. Comic has denied us this right and puts us in a position to intervene and ask that in the day to vote, the Assembly will declare a possible breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think this kind of authoritarian leadership of the Assembly, especially something that now appears as a newspaper, which is that you forbid that we here speak, the opposition, something that is not appropriate to any parliament. The word Parliament is from the verb parla – speaking. The essence of parliamentary democracy is that a national forum, by the people's representatives, is being led here, and that the control of the executive authority and the position by the opposition is being carried out through the debate. You don't let us do that and that's something new, it's the introduction of totalitarianism and darkness. You are giving us penalties not because we are violating the Rules of Procedure, but based on subjective assessment, the authoritarian evaluations of an authoritarian person, who makes an assessment of whether we are telling the truth or not and then reaches for punishment. You forbid us to be mistaken, you forbid us to tell the truth, and that is the end of parliamentaryism. You insult us with this calendar. In Article 10 of our constitution, the official use of language is a Serbian and Cyrillic letter. Why the Latin on your calendar, which you signed. I don't mind the Latin... . I'm lying? Here, they get behind my back to lie, and that lady who protects the integrity of this Parliament. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14176	It's been three minutes, Mr. Momchilov. Gentlemen, I'd like you to sit down, continue your work, and I'd like to invite you to work on the agenda. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: Until you return our rights, we will not sit down. I'd like to ask you to sit down, if you don't throw away. Don't throw it away, Mr. Todorovic. Mr. Momchilov, you've been talking for a while, essentially, about hurting the Rules of Procedure and more about your own observations. I warn you, I'll give you a measure next time if you act the same way at the pay phone. Mr. Mirko Munjic has a word. I'm just asking you not to interrupt your colleagues, so that they can speak and that I can follow.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14177	Ladies and gentlemen, member 27 has been injured. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Madam President, you have just injured the Rules of Procedure, Rule 27, in the morning work and session of the National Assembly. Namely, I called in this morning and advertised a violation of article 86. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, done by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gordana Komic; she injured Articles 1 and 2. Rules of Procedure. It's an old rule that you know each other in the morning. It started by breaking the Rules of Procedure, and you've been doing it all day, and in the afternoon, and here you are, in the afternoon session. I'll explain it. This morning, article 86 was injured by the fact that in 15 seconds 82 MPs were present in this room, so not enough for the start of this morning's session. You have explained that you will provide me with proof that there have been enough MPs, but I am telling you that there have only been enough MPs in the 38th second session, which is a flagrant violation of this Rules of Procedure, and that is exactly what the infringement of Rule 86 consists of. After that, you hurt Article 27 by giving me the explanation I just said. So, I ask that in the day to vote, the Assembly declare itself on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, both Mrs Gordana Comic and by you. So, the SRS doesn't have any problems with what's called the so-called SRS. to political subsistence. Who's got it, let's think about it. We don't have a problem with Ollie Rehn, or Solana, or The Hague tribunal, or anyone. It is simply our statute and ideology of Serbian nationalism that requires us to do so. We don't even have a problem with that story I'm about to finish my exposure. They say: When the bird saw the worm on the top of the tree, she asked him, "Where did you come from? Whoever's got a problem with this, imagine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14178	Gentlemen, please get serious. I'm interrupting the session for half an hour. [[After break – 16.50.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, the atmosphere that has been being built in the congregation for days has indeed led to an incident situation that is destroying the reputation and dignity of the Assembly. One of our fellow Members is injured, and that is something that is truly inadmissible. Please, let's work on the day-to-day work, get to work on the agenda. It is obvious that the abuse of the advertising of the Rules of Procedure and the intimidation of MPs results in a way that cannot possibly be in line with the needs of the citizens of Serbia and our country and with Parliament's reputation. Please, let's strictly adhere to the agenda. In case you advertise the Rules of Procedure, please state which member is injured and explain what the injury is. It's the only thing I'm going to tolerate as chairman and president of the assembly. Mr. Dragan Todorovic, head of the SRS parliamentary group, is advertised by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14180	I'm advocating the violation of Article 104, Madam Chairman, and this is attitude 2, which says, "The MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. "First of all, Madam Chairman, I think this member and this position obliges you to really address the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and you show, slightly, an inappropriate way of assessing events in the Serbian Parliament. After five years of this Rules of Procedure, today you have lifted the right of the Members to appear by some of his members. If you look at this Rules of Procedure, Madam Chairman, you will see that by article 27, any announcement would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure, obstruction and all that you call it. Everything from Article 27, and beyond, is the right of an MP to advertise every member of this House. At the moment when you took Mr Markicevic's MP, who is not a member of the SRS, but answered and asked for an explanation under Article 226, you took away the word, in protest we stood up and we had no intention of sitting down, because it was the only way to express our protest against this kind of torture you're doing over the MPs of the opposition, first of all, the SRS, because we're not going to give you the legitimacy to reintroduce special units to get us kicked out of the Assembly and to do everything they did. When you were brought to a stalemate, when you didn't know what to do, Tomislav Nikolic appeared suddenly, with Igor Becic, but before that, the head of security entered and the accused was the man who was sitting in the O.R. I don't want to get into any grades, but, ma'am...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14181	Please, don't win and don't interfere with the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14182	Don't be mad at people who hurt the truth, I understand that. Madam Chairman, the truth works, it's Zoran Krasic yesterday, I'm extending now, but I can leave, so I can go back... All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14183	Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic. Just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure and explain the injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14184	Dear People's MPs, Madam Chairman, I advertise Article 27, because you are in charge of order in this assembly. In fact, today is the cross glory of the SRS, the Holy Three Gerards. You have not honored to congratulate one of the MPs' groups on their fame. You know when events like this happen, it's not the first time. In 2002, if you remember, the head of security was removed after incidents in the National Assembly, and all these incidents, including those that took place in the Federal Assembly in 1995, were directed by the BIA. Why do I say that? Where did the head of security at the door of the Assembly come from? How does he get in here first and introduce Tomislav Nikolic, with whom he drinks coffee all the time? Where'd he get Igor Becic into the O.R.? How could you let that happen? Only MPs can come in here, and the head of security, or security, only on your call. Nothing happens. This is blasphemy, gentlemen. This is where Christianity appears to be dead. Don't forget that today is the glory of the Serbian Radical Party and you were to embarrass us...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14185	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, you don't explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14186	I'm explaining, Madam Chairman, you just don't understand what you've done. You've allowed officers to enter the O.R. and present to you something that's happened, instead of being rude and bringing that officer back out, take a break and then give a warrant to examine the truth here, or what happened. Srboljub Zivanovic did not leave this room. What happened to that MP you call an MP? And who has led to this state of affairs so that they may still be in Parliament - the parliamentary majority. Now you want to make us people who are subject to some incidents, who want incident situations. If someone suffered all these 18 years from different regimes, they suffered from the SRS. You beat us. Your colleague, Natasa Jovanovic, had been insolent since security in 2002, here, while you were taking us out of this House. Now we're thugs? You're the thugs from the moment you burned down the assembly, then on. All your power, along with those who are now helping you...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14187	You're not advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. I'm warning you, you haven't advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14188	Madam Chairman, since you were not here yesterday, and if you had taken this letter seriously, then probably not only today's incident, if there were, but any incident would have been avoided in the Serbian Parliament. We showed you this letter, I'm showing you just a photocopy, but I'm going to try to read something that can be read, because the words that are written are such that they're not for a pay phone. It refers to Srboljub Zivanovic. "Calm down so we don't liquidate you and kill you everything you have alive. Ambassador, we're gonna cut you off, and they're saying something, "and we're gonna get our tongues out." Calm down, Srboljub Zivanovic, because you will, and they say what, like all your family. ''Mr. Chairman, if for you, or for the chairman who chaired at the time, this is not enough for you to react at the same time and do everything to make sure that the perpetrators are discovered, I know you can't find out, but you could have done anything to initiate the procedure, to see who sent this letter to the Serbian Parliament today, and not just today, we wouldn't have these problems. If they were able to detect those who sent threatening letters from Chicago, why can't it be done with those who wrote a letter from Belgrade? How is it that the ruling majority and the services responsible for this do not respond to warrants that stick to Belgrade? How is it that, the moment the warrants with Boris Tadic were glued out, the perpetrator was found very quickly? I welcome that, but if you do this in one way when it comes to a particular person, and in another way for others, it's obvious that someone is behind this and it's obvious that you don't want to solve it, that it suits you, because what you're doing with the Administrative Committee is the best proof that you're slowly introducing the Assembly into chaos. All that matters to you is that you get in a position to charge someone. What's going on, it looks like a scenario to me that should end so that it's all responsible for the SRS and to accuse the SRS. Therefore, you have contributed to this and you are responsible. Mr. Nenad Konstantinovic, who was gone all day and day yesterday, could have finished this job however you wanted, and the matter would have been over. No, you need an incident. You want him to get to him, but you're responsible for running this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14189	Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word, but I would rather inform you, given the information we have on the calendars, that the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the chief of the Service Stevo Likic, who I wish to read to you. "The painter Obačina Radoje - Kenta brought 200 pieces of calendar to the entrance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on 14 King Milan Street, with the motives of his paintings, stressing that the calendars were donated and asked to be distributed to the MPs. He brought the calendars before the start of his work hours and left it at the Security Service, in the building. On 11 February 2009, the Assembly's Office purchased 200 deposits for table calendars and was ordered to share them for the needs of parliamentary groups and employees. At that moment, there was a misunderstanding, so the head of the office department, with the expedition and the archives, Mrs. Zorica Simic, transferred the couriers to share the calendars, not stressing that the building calendars of the painters of the Obavina are not being shared, because there was no approval of the secretary of the Assembly. The couriers, because of the misunderstanding, also shared the cartridges for table calendars, as well as the wall calendars provided by the painter Obačina." Please don't throw it away. "In the hope that such a failure will never happen again, we apologize and point out that it is only an unfortunate event of circumstances and misunderstanding," said Chief Stevo Likic. You were also interested in finding out from the Office of Electronic Voting and Records how much this morning, when we started working, there were MPs. At 10 o'clock and 16 minutes, here are the documents, when determining the quorum, there were 84 MPs. Miss Jovanovic can see, as well as those who are interested, too. So there's the answer to that question. Mr. Todorovic, it is obvious that the sounds that interfere with the atmosphere in the Assembly come from the SRS and I ask you to influence your colleagues that this is not happening.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be good if the MPs of the SRS would stop at banging on the assembly inventory, it could somehow be tolerated, but today there has been a tragic event in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for wanting to hear what happened. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic attacked MP Igor Becic on the stairs leading from the basement to the ground floor, near the side elevator. With his first blow, he threw his glasses off his face and then hit him several more times, as Becic without glasses saw nothing. Becic managed to catch Srboljub Zivanovic and stop him from hitting him again, and then the workers of Serbia's TV, three of them, who saw them at the end of the fight, came across. Now I come from the Emergency Centre, your colleague is badly injured, MP Igor Becic. I would feel the same way if Srboljub Zivanovic hurt a cleaning lady in the Serbian Parliament, since he does not choose. Yesterday, he insulted Ljiljana Miladanovic, with the worst possible words. Yesterday I informed you that at least 500 times he cursed everything I have in my house. What's his goal? What was done by your president's security guard when he couldn't hit someone on his own and defend the honor of his family and his wife, he was going after others. So you told a lie to the camera and from this pay phone, in a pointless attempt to prove that Srboljub Zivanovic did not participate in it. There are family people among you, there are hosts among you. Srboljub Zivanovic is an insult to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and you must understand that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14191	Mr. Nikolic, please don't insult Ambassador Zivanovic. Take care of what words you characterise any MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14192	I'm sorry, I'm stressed, and I'm trying to use words of an appropriate situation. This hasn't happened since Punisha Racic. What is your wish, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS? He attacked Dr. Mijatovic on the street. He insulted all the living here, especially the women of our MP group. You're applauding. You give him support, because they're not your wives, they're not your sisters, they're not your daughters, they're someone else's. That's who you are. You choose, if someone is yours, they can do anything, they can do anything. If he does anything to someone else, he can do whatever he wants, he will be protected by a powerful SRS, I apologize, by obstruction of the work of the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Please, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, the drop spilled the glass. MPs are fighting in the Serbian Parliament. Think about whether this congregation even exists anymore, can this banging replace a reasoned discussion? Will this help the unemployed, the poor, the sick, or will it only help the ladies and gentlemen to justify themselves in front of their families for buying new shoes? I'm telling you, we won't take any more beatings. Listen to me, radicals, don't let you attack any more of us physically, because then we'll fight you all the way. This was the last time you broke one of us. Just please and don't choose... (During the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the SRS MPs were banging on the benches. [[off microphone]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14193	Mr. Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14194	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 104. This is because of the citizens of Serbia, you've had opportunities to be witnesses. All that said, said by the predecessor, could somehow be estimated to be someone else. The man who ran into Srboljub Zivanovic in this room, pulled him by the hair, that's true, is enough, I guess, to apologize for this assembly speaker. The one who said he would destroy the SRS, the one who does everything to keep Vojislav Seselj in The Hague as long as possible, says that the SRS is a winemaker and initiator of events in the Serbian Parliament. It's not. The Serbian Radical Party is only subject to the processing of the secret services of the ruling majority, foreign embassies and all those aimed at destroying Serbia, because they are the only one on the way to the SRS. They thought the process was over in September, when they realized that all their attempts had failed, that it was clear that the citizens of Serbia had all seen through, that all lies and delusions had come to light, that slowly, but surely, things had come to their place. That's why the ruling regime was panicking. He realized that they failed to do what they were going to do, and now, at any cost, they want to put the SRS on a pillar of shame, except they won't do the dirty work themselves. They make sure they don't do it on their own, but they're looking for those who are suitable for it. Unfortunately, they find them, and that's why we're in the situation we're in. If this parliament had worked in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the law, this would not have happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14195	Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14196	You can accuse me of everything and everything, you can make all the political speeches you want, the President of the Assembly has given you this pay phone for four months to promote yourself, and here you are as long as you've come. This is about, Mr. Todorovic, that you said in the cameras that Mico Rogovic attacked Igor Becic and that Igor Becic was in an alcoholic state. You know very well that Igor Becic hasn't tasted a glass of alcohol in his life, and today, at the Emergency Center, they took his blood out to determine if he was intoxicated. So you said that Mico Rogovic attacked Igor Becic. I ask you, Mr. Todorovic, if it were your family, that they were cursing both your father and mother and wife and daughter, would you defend this Serb Zivanovic? I'm telling you, he cursed us everything that exists alive in our houses. The people around him, who sometimes tell him – no more, Srbo. Did I attack Srbo Zivanovic? I didn't, but I got all broken up to attack him; he sat down, he wouldn't get up. If he had stood up, I would have attacked him because, like you, as a good Serb, I would not have allowed anyone to curse my wife and mother, and I will justify you whenever anyone swears to you; attack him freely, I justify it. If you don't justify it, ask yourselves, do you have an archaic for me, and the other for you, or may you have a bodyguard who will give you light after half an hour, because someone has cursed your mother and wife? So remove Srboljub Zivanovic, because this is all causing it. They have nothing to do with this. Whether something worked or didn't in September, the Prepolje elections, the Vrnjačka Banja elections, the Kljažvac elections, the Krtkovci elections, in which you were weaker than the SNS. Doesn't that tell you anything? How long will your behavior be the basis of your policy? How long will you stand here in the hall collected, while life passes and goes far? How long will you send people to provoke and beat other people? Is that politics? Is that a political party? Is that the ideology of the SRS that you stayed with? Remember the ones you're throwing at me when there could have been a conflict in the SRS, and the physical ones, who prevented them, Fire's Mihajlovic? Yours, for example, with Wolfie, who stopped her? I did, because I never allowed you to physically conflict, and now you've entered the worst possible action, which you want to restore to some of your mandates. What mandates? Has Dragan Todorovic's term been taken? It's not. What are you fighting for, Dragan Todorovic, for someone else's term? (President: Time. ) Igor Becic is fighting for his mandate, I'm fighting for yours, and you, Dragan, are fighting for yours, because I heard that when my cabinet was robbed, the resignations were missing and that they were being held by some who are now being told by Seselj whose resignations to send and whose resignations are not. (At the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14197	Gentlemen, colleagues from the SRS, besides banging, it is obvious that you are using certain devices for certain sound signals that disrupt the atmosphere. I'll be forced to deal with identifying these devices. Please don't use them. It's crossing that line that can be tolerated. I'm really asking you to try to work on the agenda. Mr. Todorovic, first of all, then Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14198	Article 104. First of all, I would never charge anyone until I had an official service report that was in charge. If I had been present for any event, I would have testified about how I saw, and convinced, it was like this, or prepared a story, I would never have. I never said in the camera that Igor Bečić pushed Srboljub Zivanovic, but I said that Mico Rogovic pushed Dusan Maric, because he came to the Parliament Club and regretted that Mico Rogovic pushed him in the hallway. I'm saying this because of you, to see what kind of situation you've brought to the Serbian Parliament, I'm telling you because you've been trying to put everything that's happening on the back of the SRS all the time. You found those who would do it for your account. Yesterday, four of the heads of parliament's groups, not the SRS, but other political parties, came out for the speaker of the Republika Srpska Assembly and asked the chairman to resolve this problem in a simple way, to set a break, to schedule a session of the Administrative Committee and to solve this problem completely. What's the reason? You, Mrs. Kolundjia, made a lie. You say we use blackmail. Are these members of the parliamentary groups also used by blackmail when they say – schedule a break, let the Administrative Board do, or is it a pledge to work by the Rules of Procedure, or is it a pledge to work in the interests of the Serbian Parliament, that there are no problems like this?- I'm sorry. Before they interrupted the session of the Serbian Parliament, the chairman began to take the floor away from the MPs who reported to the members of 225 and 226. For what? Who made that decision? For five years, that Rules of Procedure has been valid, and all of a sudden it doesn't work. By whose estimate? By the estimate of Boris Tadic and you, because it suits you? Should you be here, to the most normal apprehension of the Rules of Procedure, whether you like it or not, to make warnings, penalties? What do you want, to send us all away? Call the police, kick us out of the Serbian Parliament and finish the job. (President: Time. I'm telling you again, we're not giving up until we get everything that's ours back.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14199	Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, twice yesterday, calling for Article 98(2)'s provision, I suggested that a break be set, because it was not necessary to countercipe the events. It was obvious that you can't work, and then you turn us all into hostages, you idiots, you insult common sense, you insult intelligence. There's no way to work. It may be blackmail, but how do we get out of it rather than by interrupting the session or by taking a break, as provided for in Article 98, paragraph 2, until conditions are obtained to work normally. I also appealed this morning. I also feel this as a personal humiliation and personal insult, I feel ashamed, ashamed and uncomfortable to be an MP for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in which something like this is happening. 14 years ago, in 1995, something happened in this same hall that I believed would never happen again, when 15, 16, 20 people, or I don't know what, in their sweatpants, in their jackets, in their purses, with guns in them, entered this hall and forced Tomislav Nikolic. The door was locked. There were several MPs outside the SRS, I think the MP was called Dusica Nikolic, who was also brought out. It doesn't matter who's here, I'm talking about something that didn't happen, I remind you of something that I believed would never happen again. Guys, this is Europe in the 21st century and Serbia that wants to go to Europe. With a parliament like this, with events like this, we are far from Europe. That is a wonderful message when EU officials and the European Commission were in Belgrade today. We're sending a wonderful message. I again urge that this session be suspended until the conditions for normal work are met, and then, as far as the MPs are concerned, I have already said in advance, I propose only one thing: strict respect and tightening to the final conventions of criminal provisions on the conduct of MPs, because, apparently, the second language, unfortunately, is still not worth it in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14201	You spoke a little longer, but I didn't want to interrupt, because you said something that was in the interest of respecting Parliament and all of us. Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14202	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MPs from the Forward Serbia Group will leave today's session and hall. It really doesn't make sense. If you don't want to be big and say, "We're sorry, it shouldn't have happened, determine what happened," you've already come up with a lie that can't be proven, because there are a lot of people who have seen it, we really don't belong in the hall with you. We're going out now, and you're going out after the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14203	Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14204	Before this forester, man, father, grandfather, comes out of the hall, citizen Tomislav Nikolic, let me tell you, Mr. Nikolic, what you've been doing for months, you throw the worst insults out of my bench, compared to me as a woman. He went out, but probably listens to his family members and those who know that the familiarity of all of us with Tomislav Nikolic lasts 17 years, and the marking of our baptismal glory, the Holy Three Gerards, today, when six years as the president of the SRS is in The Hague tribunal, is something that is most sacred to us. The fact that he broke his oath in the church, that he got wings, because today, as I hear it, Ollie Rehn praised him for at least five minutes, so he went round and round, so he thinks it's European to make incidents, to stage events, to attack honest people on their cross glory, to honor him. The dignity of the Assembly, Article 104, has been injured. I'll be done in three minutes. Explain where the injury is. I'll tell you. Tomislav Nikolic has been insulting my dignity for months. I never said that to Mr. Todorovic, as president of the Parliament Group. I told my colleague Elena Christmas-Talian and my colleague, Marina Toman, once upon a time. The DSS colleagues sitting in front of him, SPS colleagues, all of them from the NSC, sitting behind him. Every time, Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, I tell you first of all as a woman, as a mother and as a grandmother, when I go out for a pay phone, Tomislav Nikolic points the worst possible terms to my account. That's what I Googled because, the moment he betrayed Vojislav Seselj and the SRS, he represented nothing to me, just one wicked person, a person non grate in this assembly, anywhere in political life. He knows very well that what he did today had been done before him, and here is the unpleasant event mentioned by Mr Batic. (President: Time. ) Milorad Mircic, Branislav Vakic and Miroslav Dramalic were in 1995, Mr Batic, in those locked rooms, when they were also incurring, accused of holding a certain Ac Đuric, who was beaten by a Serbian radical... (President: please. I'm finishing up, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, these are major incidents. The man came in, and before him, security. The same scenario is repeated. You know, he's giving us moral sermons, and I've been silent for months, because I don't care, he doesn't represent anything in political life. In moral, for me, as a Kragujevčanka, as a Serbian woman, and especially today on the sacred holiday of Serbian radicals – nothing, because he betrayed Serbia, betrayed Vojislav Seselj, betrayed everything he has sworn in the past 18 years. Thank you, and I'm so sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14205	Mr. Dusan Maric. I'd like to ask you, I'll strictly stick to the Rules of Procedure. You can explain the injury of a member and that is the only content allowed, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Maric, I believe you will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14206	Mrs. Djukic, I respect what you said, and I will strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure. Reporting under Article 104. The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. It is not allowed to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons." I'm skipping the members so I don't waste my time. Article 106: "The warning shall be made to the MP who interrupts the speaker in the presentation, or throws out, or interferes with the speaker or otherwise endangers freedom of speech." 15 minutes ago, while behind this speaker was the head of the SRS Parliamentary Group, Mr Dragan Todorovic, the people sitting in the back rows, members of the SNS, repeatedly threw: "a liar, a liar". You heard it and you were obliged to apply the Rules of Procedure and give the measure of warning. Yesterday, we were called donkeys from this congregation pay phone. It's also gone without a warning. A few days ago we were called maniacs, you didn't re-apply the Rules of Procedure. Two minutes after you took a break, I went out into the hall of the Assembly, quite normal, calmly, because in politics there are various things happening, including these unkind things that happened today. Mico Rogovic was on his way to see me. We haven't exchanged a single word. The man pushed me into my chest with a curse, I apologize to the citizens of Serbia - mother, we will kill you all. I've spoken to you in words, Micho, what's the matter with you? He's done it again. We'll kill you all. I have a very correct relationship with this man. Never to him, nor to any other person who enters the congregation have I given a single bad word. I'm sorry Mr Tomislav Nikolic got out of the O.R. I wanted him to listen to the members of his political party and ask, I don't want to speak my name, the man sitting with him in the bench, which is at least 20 times, and that's what the DS MPs heard a month ago, threatened in the assembly benches. He threatened me and the members of my family, mentioned the children to me, mentioned how he would swear to the church that he would mutilate me. I asked him - what for, man? I didn't get an explanation. When someone comes out for this pay phone and calls for morality, for honesty, for honorable knightly conduct, they first need to look into their own backyard, and if they speak to one of the MPs' clubs, then they should first look at how members of what they call their MPs' club behave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14207	National MP Ognjen Mihajlovic, sorry, has the advantage of Mr Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14208	President-in-Office, honourable Members of the People, a little smile, to be in this assembly a little bit of dignity, to return to what this high house deserves. Please, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, be serious. I've sent you that message several times. Serbia is in big trouble. You see what the Serbian Parliament looks like. No problem solved, problems just stick under the carpet. Everyone in the government is wise to remain silent. You keep trying to push through the Rules of Procedure in one illegal way, very bold and undemocratic, and to change something that has its own procedure, the way it changes, and it's starting to prepare. You can't solve it, you can't put the boards together. The board presidents don't do anything, they're not in the O.R., they're not coming, you can't find them, they have their own business. During that time, Serbia is in total ruin, in total dissipation. The institutions of this country are losing their functions. The functions of institutions in this country are taken over by individuals. This is where it happens. Today you've had a visit to Ollie Rehn, who advises us to adopt the Rules of Procedure, these changes, and it's out of the brain that someone so significant comes into the EU is proposing what we should do, as if we're being stupid here. It's nice to have them coming to us, but we're starting to be a thruster and the EU thinks we are, because look what we look like. Why can't you maintain the Administrative Board for months? President, resign. Why are you sitting on a committee that can't sit for six months? Mr. President of the Administrative Board, resign, don't throw up! You have a majority on the board from the ruling coalition. Why don't you keep it? Whoever is not satisfied with the decision, let him complain to the judicial authorities. What does this look like? The Legislative Committee can't, this Mr. President, the man's in business, he comes by here in passing, last time he couldn't hold the board, the man's busy. This doesn't lead to anything. See what we have received today, the People's MPs of the Serbian Parliament – one call. At Meeting, the Day of the State of Serbia, the celebration is in Orasc. The invitation sends us a ministry whose Minister Rasim Ljajic, a friend of mine, is very much appreciated and respected. Understand you from the ruling coalition, you are going to visit Karadjordju, to Orasac, and invitations are being sent by Rasim Ljajic, my friend, all honours, but it is an insult to the dignity of this country. It's an insult to Karajorgia... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... It's an insult to everything that's Serbian. It just doesn't look like the kind of Serbia we stand for. (President: Time. ) I apologize to Minister Rasim Ljajic, I apologize, it was written on the invitation, it writes well – the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is the organizer of this celebration. Gentlemen, don't make a freak out of the state. This is our country, we don't have a spare. Don't play with her. We won't talk again, if we have to, we'll never answer the word. I overstepped a little. I apologize to the president. Please understand that you've gone too far, too far. You've gone too far. No more patience to put up with all this and put up with it. We listen here to insults. You're acting crazy. Nothing's going on. The government will shut up. I don't think we have, who knows where the man is, nobody sees him or hears him, I have no idea. Only that Dinkic shows up is that he solves all problems every day, and we get worse and worse every day, and we're in a bigger mess. He's fighting in Parliament, bleeding in the halls of the Assembly. (President: Time. What does that look like? What's this all about?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14209	Time, Mr. Ilich. Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14210	Your Honor, Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 101, 103 and 104. I don't want to get into what kind of hatred there is for anyone, if it's another religion or another nation. It is an insult to Parliament to speak in hate language, and what we have heard now is exactly that. What could bother you, apart from hating someone who's other faiths, if someone called for a national holiday ceremony. I'm asking you not to allow it from this assembly pay phone. So you can have your own political position and you can present it in your political campaigns. This is the National Assembly. You have no right to speak in hate and intolerance here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-12-0.u14211	I just want to inform you, the board of directors was scheduled yesterday in 15 hours. Also, I'd like to inform you again that tomorrow, at 10 o'clock, there will be a session of this committee. It seems to me that this is crossing the borders of the dialogue in Parliament. We'll continue work tomorrow, 10:00. I'm asking the heads of Parliament to come to my house at 9:15.
