ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17121	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, first I must commend the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, because it is among those ministries that are quick to draft new legal proposals, or drafts. We've already had several draft laws at this meeting, which were made at the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. We also know that several other legal proposals are being prepared, e.g. draft laws on the state electoral commission, on local elections, on a single polling list, and that is commendable. It is also good that Serbia will get, after almost 20 years, a new law on political parties and SVM believes the bill on political parties is fundamentally good. As you know, Mr. Minister, the SVM has not submitted any amendments to this bill and, as you can see, you can draft a bill on which we will not have amendments. So far, only one such proposal has been referred to the congregation procedure in the last meeting – it was the law on the capital. We did not have an amendment to that law because we are not overly interested in this legal matter, and the law on political parties is another such bill that the SVM has not submitted any amendments because we believe that solutions are good. It is also good that we have already passed the Law on Parent Books in this National Assembly meeting, but I have one question for Mr. Minister right at the beginning, before I move on to the Bill on Political Parties. The issue is related to the draft law on associations, which was withdrawn on 17 December 2008. You remember that I criticised that solution, I criticised that it was withdrawn from the assembly procedure from the bill, because we believe that Serbia should have a new law, there should be modern solutions regarding citizens' associations. I have a question for you – when will the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government create a new draft law, i.e. a draft law on associations and when the National Assembly will be able to begin the debate, not only start, but also end the debate on the law on associations and vote on this bill. For years, the civil sector has been waiting for the new law on associations to be adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to return to the basic subject of today's agenda, the draft law on political parties. As we know, valid legal solutions are charred, unhomogeneous and anachronous. No wonder, if we know that the laws that regulate the establishment and operation of political parties are now in force in 1990. These are the Law on Political Organisations and the Law on the Association of Citizens in Associations, Social Organizations and Political Organizations established for the territory of the SFRY. Already from the names of these, now in force, the law can conclude that the solutions under these anachron rules and that Serbia should have a new, modern law on political parties. Both laws that are now valid and which regulate the work of political parties and the establishment of parties are not only anachronous but also contain solutions that are contrary to the current constitution and that is the additional reason why a new law on political parties should be passed. As the most favourable, best and most advanced solution set out in this proposal, the law may specify the solution regulated by the parties of national minorities. First, the establishment of national minorities' parties requires a drastically smaller number of signatures, and on the other hand, the names of national minority political parties can also be entered in the language of a particular national community that it wants to represent a particular political party. This solution did not exist in the applicable laws that regulate the establishment, operation and operation of political parties, and this solution is certainly commendable. The proposed solution with regard to the parties of national minorities is in line with one of the basic constitutional principles that the state guarantees special protection to national minorities in order to achieve the necessary equality and preserve their identity, and also enables the implementation of good practice for the participation of national minorities in political life, and this principle is foreseen by the resolution of the 2007 CoE Parliamentary Assembly. When it comes to the number of signatures needed to establish new political parties, and among them the political parties of national minorities, it should also be said that we are talking in principle about a figure of 500 for the parties of national minorities and 5,000 for the other parties. We also know that amendments have been submitted (the opposition parties have also submitted an amendment and some parties that make up the ruling majority) to increase the number of signatures needed to 10,000 and 1,000 to the national minority parties. Regardless of what we're talking about other figures, 500 and 5,000, we know that the passed law will say that national minority parties will need 1,000 signatures, and for other parties 10,000. In yesterday's debate, colleagues formulated a dilemma regarding national minorities' parties, whether 500 solutions should be left behind, or should this be increased to 1,000. On behalf of the SVM, I can say that it is acceptable for us to have that number as 1,000 signatures, because we believe that for a number of major national communities, for those national minorities who have established political parties and who participate in political life this should not be a problem. The Alliance of Duchy Hungarians has collected more than 10,000 signatures in previous elections, so it should not be a problem now to collect 1,000 signatures for the establishment of a political party, i.e. to re-enter the SVM registry. The same solution should match the other parties of the duchy Hungarians, which are currently five. We believe that those parties of the duchy Hungarians who cannot collect 1,000 signatures for re-registration have nothing to ask for in the political life of the Republic of Serbia. We also know that there are far fewer national communities, which may not currently have political organisations, do not have political parties. Perhaps it should leave this possibility for them to form a party with 500 signatures, but I don't know if it is legally possible to do so now, because no amendment has been submitted that otherwise regulates the parties of national minorities that are outnumbered. We are ready to support those amendments aimed at increasing the number of signatures for national minority parties to 1,000 because we believe that the political scene should be more serious, that it is simply not normal for the state of Serbia to have more than 570 parties. That's why this censorship needs to be increased. Also, the seriousness of the political scene of the Republic of Serbia does not depend exclusively on the number of political parties, but this solution, we hope, will bring together the political scene and the seriousness of the political scene in the Republic of Serbia. To that end, it is also the solution set out in the bill that the parties will be obliged to submit applications for renewals to the register every eight years from the date of entry into the register. Those parties, which will win seats in the National Assembly or in the assembly of the AP Vojvodina, will be exempt, and that is a solution that we consider to be good and logical. When it comes to transparency, the public work of political parties, we think it is acceptable that the parties will be obliged to make publicly available, via the Internet, a founding act, the names of the founders, the name of political party representatives, the programme, the statutes and other general acts of the political party if they adopt them. Minister Markovic certainly knows that he had serious problems in previous years because the statutes of certain political parties were not available. Not only were they not available to the public, but they were not available to the leaders of certain political parties. This has produced many problems in the political life of the Republic of Serbia, and this has produced many problems for the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. During yesterday's debate, colleagues have formulated the view that it may be worrying that the founder's names will also be available on the Internet. Simply not all political party founders are politicians. For me, of course, it is not a problem if I are possibly among the founders of the SVM, among those people who will sign that request to re-enter our party in the register, but among the founders of certain parties there may be people who are not politicians, for whom it may be a problem to figure on the internet as founders of a particular political party. Also, Mr. Minister, I'm sure you know there are a lot of political parties that don't have their own Internet presentations, and this bill simply obliges all political parties to have a website, to have Internet presentations. That's not a problem for us, but it can be a problem for smaller political parties. That is why, eventually, we should also think about this solution. I'm going to talk about one more topic, one solution from the bill, and that's the distinction between political parties. In the current law, there is no such solution as is provided for by the draft law regarding the distinction between political parties. As a result, certain parties under certain names were established and entered in the register, which may not have been allowed, but simply the Ministry had no legal basis to refuse to register certain parties. Here, I think of the solution now envisioned by the bill – that the name of the political party cannot be identical to the name of the other political party, which is understood and which is natural; it is normal, but under the new law, the name of the political party will not be able to cause confusion in the public. Now there are parties registered in the ministry's register of political parties whose name can cause confusion in the public. In this regard, I will formulate one question for Mr. Minister, to whom I expect an answer immediately after my presentation, after my address. How will the Ministry act... I know, of course, that the Ministry will pass sublegal acts that will specify certain solutions under the law, after the adoption of this law, and before the application of the law on political parties, but surely the minister has an opinion on the issue as well. How will the Ministry do so if, after the entry into force of this law and after the application of this law, someone knocks on the Ministry's door and requests registration of the political party ZES? Because such a party is not in the register, such a legal person does not exist, but there is one coalition that participated in both these elections and in previous elections, which took part both in parliamentary elections and in elections for the President of the Republic. What happens if someone asks for the formation of the party ZES? Of course, I'm not asking this question by accident. You have entered the register of a political party whose name is the same as the name of an electoral list that participated in both parliamentary elections and the province elections, both in local elections and in elections for the President of the Republic. You entered that party, of course, and you did the right thing, because under the applicable law you couldn't refuse to register that political party's register. If we consider this provision serious and if we believe that the political party's name should not be such that it can cause confusion in the public, then I think that under this law you will have the grounds to refuse the request for re-registering of a political party that has a name identical to the name of an electoral coalition that participated in these elections. The Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians will support the draft law on political parties, and I expect Mr. Minister to answer this question that I have asked before and to ask why has not yet been returned to the assembly procedure of the draft Association Act and when can we expect a debate in the National Assembly on the Proposal for Association Law?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17122	The word has Minister Milan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17123	Thank you, Mr. Pastor, for your presentation. As far as the Association Act is concerned, I think within seven days or two weeks, that law will be in the government again. We have an agreement with the Ministry of Finance on a provision concerning property, i.e. vomiting, restitution of assets for those associations that existed before nationalisation and their reregistering into social organisations. So there is one small dispute and this dispute will be resolved very quickly and the law will be found in the procedure. We'll take advantage of the opportunity and make a few changes in the law. Part of the amendment refers to your amendments that you submitted the last time he was in the procedure, and we're also thinking about leaving the registration to the Agency for Economic Registers. We are still checking whether the Agency has the capacity to take over the registration, given that it is a fairly complex procedure and decides on the rights and obligations of people who establish associations. As for names and the Internet, if in this country the political party will not use the Internet, then, really, who will use it? So we want to motivate the application of modern information technologies, and that's why we asked political parties to use web sites and to highlight their general acts. As for the name, I still think, like yesterday, that it's just a personal name and last name, there's no personal data on residence, home number, etc. These are data that are otherwise available to the public. I don't think it's a dispute, but we still want the votes of the citizens, that they know who we are. The Founder is the Founder, not anyone. The founder is the one who shows a strong degree of will to establish one party with such a political idea, so I hope it will not be controversial in practice. Your question is excellent, about parties, or names that cause confusion. There is no dilemma that if someone set up a party for European Serbia, it would cause a complete confusion in the electoral body, as it would appear in polling stations as a party for European Serbia. I know the case you're talking about, the registration of the Hungarian coalition has been made. This will certainly no longer be possible, and if we sin as the Ministry, the dissatisfied party will have the right to initiate an administrative dispute, and then, according to today's solutions, at the Supreme Court, and according to the solutions that will take effect in 2010, at the Administrative Court. At the very least, it is the court who will make the final decision. As far as the ministry is concerned, as a minister, as a person authorized to decide on this, I will not allow records which, in my deep confidence, cause confusion, and this is one of those, certainly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17124	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vlatko Ratkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17125	Thank you. Madam Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must first of all express my satisfaction that the law on political parties has been found at this session, at this assembly session where we are discussing very important laws. As we are discussing and deciding on environmental laws and regulating the area, it is necessary to edit all segments of society, which have so far been decorated with over- and anachronous legal solutions. By adopting this law, whether in an integrated form, as proposed by the Government, or by incorporating certain amendments, which we will determine in the course of the debate, we will eliminate the two paradoxes that exist in our constitutional and regulatory system. The first paradox is that we have two regulations: one is published in the 1990 SRS Official Messenger, and the second is published in the "SFRJ Official Journal". For a society in transition between 19 and 20 years, it's not two decades, it's one eon, because things in a sociological sense, politically, in changing cultural models, change daily, monthly, and a period of 20 years, we have to admit and realize, is a period that represents a plus-squamperfect and therefore it's necessary to regulate this very important area by a new regulation. We heard the proposals in yesterday's debate that it might have been necessary to regulate the issue of funding political parties, some aspects of the electoral system. This would mean some kind of codification of this part of the legislation, where we would also involve political parties, and the financing of parties and the issue of elections. As far as I know, there is no coded system in comparative law. I believe that this solution to a roof law, concerning political parties, is good and positive. Political parties, their creation and development are inseparable from representative democracy; they are inseparable from the electoral rights of citizens and the election of representatives of these citizens through that right. I must say, from a broader sociological aspect, that the dialogue between citizens and citizens themselves cannot be limited to the moment of voting, to the moment of the election. Meanwhile, citizens are trying to influence the flow of public affairs, making the impact effective. They gather in different groups and organisations, some of which are political parties. The right to organise political parties belongs to the constitutional human rights Corps, which is contained in both relevant UN documents and other supranational organisations. So the political parties are the element of the democratic model of society, beginning in the 17th century, when embryos of political parties appear, such as in the 17th century of England, the Torians and the Viggos, from which conservatives and the Liberal parties later appear; in the French bourgeois revolution they are the juridicals and the Jacobites; in the United States, during the American Revolution, federalists and anti-Federalists. So this is the period when political parties begin to create social relations, and in today's sense of the word, the 19th century is the period when political parties are profiled as forms of association of people, association of citizens, with the intention of creating social relations. We live in a world where political systems exist where exactly the parties are the organizations that create social relations. Through the elections, citizens choose not only their representatives in parliament, they directly elect the government, as executive authority, through their people's representatives. Unfortunately, or fortunately, there is no alternative to this system, there is no better political and cultural model for managing social processes than there are political parties so far. That's right, Malten, in all countries. I'll remind you, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, of a certain typeology of party systems that exist in the modern world. There are so-called. One-sided systems, which are mostly a relic of the past. We had them in Nazi Germany before and during World War II, Fascist Italy before and during World War II, and in the Eastern Hemisphere today there are several countries with one party's monopoly. There are so-called. Two-party systems, such as the political systems of the United States, where we have a Democratic and Republican Party. We can also put the political system of Great Britain into this typeology, where conservatives and laborists exist. He's interesting, so-called. A two-and-a-half party model, such as in the Federal Republic of Germany, where we have two strong political parties: Social Democratic and Democratic, and then a scale tab when forming a parliamentary majority, or forming a government, is a smaller party, as in the recent past was a party of green. The political party, not to enter now into the analysis of individual members of this law, but sublimely speaking, is an organisation of people that includes people with the same political ideology, with the aim of full or partial public conduct democratically, based on the election. These are three constituent elements in the definition of a political party that distances and distinguishes a political party from other forms of association of citizens: from social organisations that do not participate in elections, from stakeholders and from political movements. The passing of this law is necessary, I said, because of the anachronous legal solutions that we have now, then, for the consistent materialisation of the constitutional norm that speaks of freedom of political, union and any other association contained in Article 55 of our Constitution and, on the other hand, we need to eliminate one system that has arisen from these anachronic solutions. I guess we're the only country with this many, record numbers of registered political parties -- about 600 of them. That's one, let's say, the semi-virtual system of the existence of political parties, so the idea of democracy, the idea of joining citizens is beginning to lose its meaning. Such legal solutions as we've had so far represent, in fact, antithesis to such an idea. In the light of this law, the Proposer stated that we had liberal solutions regarding the conditions for the establishment of a party, but I would call them quasi-liberal solutions. So it's easier to organize a political party... According to the solutions so far, a hundred people come up, come up with a programme and say: we are a political party; they exist in a political life with a claim to participate in the elections and to exercise public office through their representatives, i.e. to win power. It is necessary to introduce order into this area and it is necessary to comply with some of the laws that we have adopted. For example, the Constitutional Court Act contains a provision prohibiting the work of a political party to be decided by the Constitutional Court, not by the Supreme Court, as was the case under the current solutions. Just a few more sentences. The role of political parties is not only the political formation of citizens' will by democratic means through participation in the elections. I must say that the function of political parties and the notification of voters is one interaction between the political party and the citizens, i.e. the voters who have defined themselves for this political option. Political parties are not their own goal, we must stress that. Political parties are one tool, a tool for creating and functioning democracy. Contrary to the insolent opinion of a large number of our citizens that the parties are uniting society, that they are breaking up monolithity, unity, I must say that it is the opposite – the parties do not divide, they unite citizens. There's no community, no society that's monolithic. It is a gathering of its citizens, and every citizen has his aspirations, latent aspirations, intentions. It is these aspirations of these citizens that are sublimed by association, among other things, and by political parties. So, as Professor Lukic said, our prominent legal expert, the parties do not divide, they unite. The synonym for the party is also the word "party", which is used in a colloquial way. The word party etemologically stems from the word "particular" and means one part and one segment of society. That's why every party gathers a number of people and their ideas sublime into their own program and their ideology. The importance of political parties is that they allow civil sovereignty to be demonstrated. Sovereignty belongs to citizens, not to political parties. Political parties also allow and express the global legitimacy of state authorities. Through their programme, through their ideology, ideological society, the parties determine the direction of society's movement and thus channel social energy. We must also say that in a society that is highly politicized, we must bear in mind that we can always fall into two traps, and we must never fall into those two traps. The first is for the principle of rule of law to be replaced by the principle of party rule, political parties, partocracies, and we, as representatives of citizens, always have to take care of it. The other kind of trap that exists with political parties is that the political party goes through its work into demagogy. That, too, cannot be allowed. Instead of demagogy – responsible social policy. With this, I will complete my presentation, my colleagues from my Parliament club will analyse and speak more about the individual provisions of this law, just refer to one of the provisions. We have heard certain remarks regarding transparency regarding the establishment of a political party and the internet presentation of a political party. We live in a society of modern technologies, today and local communities have their own websites. I don't see the reason and I don't see any excuse for someone who claims to run public affairs not having an Internet presentation. I also see no reason to fear any citizen because they will be on the Internet presentation as the founder of a political party. If we are building Serbia as a free and open society, we must promote the idea of freedom from any fear. Along with my colleagues, I welcome this law. In the amendment debate, we will see whether the better solutions, which concern the number of founders, are five thousand or ten thousand, depending on the arguments that MPs will make in these amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17126	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? If not, I'd like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the principled search for a written statement, and with the order of the MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the PUPS Group, the LDP MP Group, the SPS-JS Group, the DSS Parliamentary Group, the G17 Plus Group, the SRS Parliamentary Group and the ZES Group. We move to a part of the debate by application for a word, and by order of the MPs, in principle, a review of the draft law on political parties. The first registered speaker is MP Đuro Peric, followed by MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17127	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when we talk about the role of political parties in democratically forming the political will of citizens and freedom of association, it was quite logical and necessary to pass such a law on political parties. Not only has the current Law on Political Organisations been passed long ago and anachron has been overcome in its being, but it is in many ways contrary to the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is very important that the explanation that Mr. Minister gave yesterday – that this law was not resolved, nor proposed, the issue of party financing and that there would be a special law on party financing, a new law, as well as electoral laws, which will in a certain way legally round the continent and allow us to have much better solutions than we have so far. The fact that only a hundred full - age citizens could have established a political organisation, or party, has certainly directly affected the fact that more than 600 parties have been registered so far. There's about 570 of them right now. There's a variety of reasons why it was like that. Of course, the reason was that in an easy way any party could be formed. There are also very interesting names and very vague reasons for the creation of such parties, we know that in practice things have happened. That is why we think it is a realistic proposal in the law that the political party can establish 500 full-time and business-qualified citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Certainly, if it were 10,000, it would affect a more radical reduction in the number of political parties, although, in some way, 20 parties appeared on the political scene and now most of them – in the previous parliamentary elections, we had only 21 lists that were submitted. In Article 21. The draft law has been adopted in accordance with Article 55(5). The constitution states who cannot be a member of the political party, adding that they cannot be other persons whose function under the law is incompatible with membership in the political party. We think that, as far as other persons are concerned, it is not in practice quite clear who could not be a member of the political party, because the question is what is considered a conflict of interest. Many of those mentioned in the second part of the law, other than what is stated in the Constitution, are formally outside the parties, but are in fact in the parties. So when it comes to these questions, we would have to be more specific. As regards the provisions of Article 30 under which the political party is obliged to apply for renewal of registrations from each eighth year following the date of entry into the register, the PUPS is of the opinion that it should not compromise the procedure for the party's statements and the overtures of their signatures, as that is, on the one hand, a large cost, but also a party that does not have five (or if there are ten) thousands of members or sympathisers, difficult to survive on a political stage. We think it is a good thing that this bill regulates in a certain way that the political party can have symbols of visual identity, which most parliamentary parties have in fact and now already, with these symbols, in our opinion, to be adequate to other symbols that are in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Finally, since the law will represent the setting up of an extremely important area in the country's political system, the PUPS Group will vote in favour of the law, which would, indeed, have to be improved a little bit, as Mr Minister has already promised in his previous statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17128	The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17129	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the respected citizens of Serbia, we finally have a law on political parties, and it is truly commendable that Mr. Minister managed to make this one point of the agenda, not united with many, as we had a case in very important laws on ecology, which we discussed in such a short way, rather than dealing very easily with each of them individually. I would suggest one thing to Mr. Secretary, which is that laws, especially those concerning the political organisation of citizens, are brought to me when I'm in opposition one day. It's an old rule that should always be respected in politics. However, this law has not been passed quite so. Of course, we respect what they are, causing the law to be passed, and I'm going to talk about real motives and reasons for this law to be passed. Mr. Minister said yesterday that until now, most of it has been regulated since 1990, when the first time in these areas was arranged, of course, in post-war history, the organisation of a multiparty system. These laws are, of course, confirmed by practice, already overcome in many ways and of course that every legal regulation only shows in practice what is missing and what can be fixed. However, we have over 600 registered political parties on the political scene of Serbia at the moment, and we have perhaps a dozen truly organised parties. The elections and the election cycle show who is politically in some space, whether or not it exists, so that the registration of political parties itself is not on the political scene of Serbia's rules of any kaphony, has not really hampered the possibility of serious and responsible political organisation of Serbian citizens. First of all, the constitution guarantees the right for Serbian citizens to be organised politically. The minister said two things yesterday, which I find unacceptable. First, I welcome what he said he wanted to make order. It's a bit like the fact that so far there's been a political jungle in registering political parties, and now it's going to come down to a "cheese" that's going to be quite cultivated. The order is certainly necessary, but so far in the elections, we have really not had any visible obstruction of the political scene and the appearance of political parties in this number that this has caused any confusion among citizens. If you go out on the street and ask the citizens to name you political parties in Serbia, you know exactly a dozen of the names of political parties that every citizen knows, recognizes and will likely be declared in some subsequent period, or will not plead, they will criticise their work, support it or dispute it. What I find unacceptable, even somewhat offensive, is that Mr. Minister said yesterday that this law is trying to gain one seriousness of political organisation. First, in Serbia, the seriousness of political life has always been present. It has never been possible for Serbian citizens to argue, especially on important political issues. We may have been naive sometimes, we may have been fooled sometimes, but in this country, we've always thought seriously. So the seriousness of political life, in the political definition of citizens, has never been controversial. Citizens will give their support, register, reregister political parties, and then we will have something that I think is the goal of the current government, I really resent, and that is an accurate insight into the personal commitment of each citizen of Serbia. I resent, indeed, that every party's website should be the names of the party's founders, because by entering each party's website, we will be able to, whoever will be able to see who publicly supported a political option, which is the right we cannot get into. First of all, it will be the subject of many abuses. Don't you think there will be really competent candidates in some competitions and then someone will once press the button to check their definition and say, you know, you are competent, but you have something that makes you unacceptable to us. That's what the lack of this law is. As a political party, New Serbia has submitted a significant number of amendments, and I thank you for having adopted a large number of our amendments, which shows that we have worked seriously, thoroughly and responsibly on this law. We're one of those who advocated an increase in the number of certified signatures. First of all, it is a message to our voters and citizens of Serbia that one such test, one such test, is not feared as a political party, which we have so far in several election cycles and shown, both in the presidential elections, and in the republican elections, so we can respond to that task. We believe that this will make a significant contribution to making political parties qualitatively different on our daily political scene. We don't mind it, as we've never had before, that a political party registers anyone who wants to. So far there have really been 600 and some political parties, 580 names no one in this country has ever heard of. What would we even mind if someone registered a political party of harmonica fans or whistles behind buses to show up at the election? If he gets 200,000 citizens who support him, then it's a matter of really serious interest. What is deficient in this law, which goes on its own and indeed the minister will have the opportunity to hear many important debates, many of the things that will help him, since he is a resolute minister who implements this law, is that, in parallel with this law, no law on the financing of political parties has been passed. It's a law that will have a crucial impact on the application of this law, and it's a law that truly interests us. New Serbia will be very responsible for monitoring the whole debate on this law, we will follow the amendments that have been accepted and thank you once again for accepting our amendments, which have been constructive. Compared to how much the law will be corrected by these accepted amendments, we will define ourselves in the end whether we will support it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17130	The word is a folk letter from Vesna Pesic, followed by the MP of the people, Mile Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17131	In my discussion, I wanted to point out that you failed to explain why this law was necessary. It is really strange, when we have DS in power, to pass a restrictive law that encroachs on the right to political organisation, and it is a more restrictive law than the laws that Slobodan Milosevic and King Milan Obrenović had. Why are we passing a more restrictive law when the first law that was passed by Slobodan Milosevic is excellent? We don't have any problem with that. You stated that your problem is that we have a variety and charm in Serbia. Man, you're getting into the basic right of the citizens to association! What do you care? The more diversity we have in association, I guess that's more pluralism. You have no right to interfere. So it's really a big mess. The Democratic Party apparently had other intentions when it passed the electoral law to introduce new restrictions, when it comes to the fundamental right of citizens to association. What does the old law say? The old law says it's enough to bring together a hundred people, especially people at a bar; according to this law, it's completely disabled, political activity in the local community. It's the basis of some kind of merger. I should register 5,000 signatures in the future so that in my municipality, Pancheva, Palilula, Smedereva, I can join a hundred citizens to represent a clean river or clean air and to fight for it in my municipality. That won't be possible now, in your opinion. It seems to me, already pointed out by Mr Ruzic, that it is amazing that at the local level people will no longer be able to join together freely and represent some of their local interests without passing your restrictive procedure, which has completely compromised the right to association. What problem do you solve? Is there a difference and diversity? What's your problem with these parties? Do you mind the 500 parties? Are you asking for state funds? Whose interest are you defending, besides some administrative interest? Let me tell you, Mr. Minister, you best put that black on your sleeves. Because whether a party exists is decided by voters, not by the administration. We have the right to join together, and whether we will succeed, how real the party will be, that will be decided by the voters. Come on, because you've passed such a restrictive law, you show, how arrogant you are, how arrogant you are, how the state interferes in everything and everything, you're asking for parties that have literally joined together and that exist for 20 years (let's say, like your DS, people have joined together 20 years ago, they've registered themselves), you're now looking for, rotten grandmother flax, like we don't have other jobs in this crisis, to run, to collect and register 5,000 signatures and to pay 50,000 each signature. Is this some kind of budget activity you want to impose on us here? There is no need for parties that exist for 20 years to run to register again, when they are already registered. If you were going to clear up some of that register, there were very easy methods, if you wanted to see if any associations really existed or didn't exist, and I don't think that's any of your business. Secondly, you've introduced some very incomprehensible restrictions to bring together citizens. For example, my colleague asked Article 4, where you say - a violation of the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. You didn't answer the question, what does that mean? Is a parliamentary party such as the Serbian Radical Party, which represents unification and large Serbia, and does not hide it at all, unification with the Republika Srpska and the non-existent Republika Srpska Krajina, disrupt this territorial integrity? Will you forbid it? When it spreads, it's good. When it shrinks, it's not good. Understand, all targets where non-violence means are allowed and I have the right to represent them. The moment a radical party or any other party uses violent means, then you can ban something like that and other political goals... I must remind you, Rugova was registered during Slobodan Milosevic. No one slowed him down. Under the Constitution, Kosovo was not a republic. He has the right to represent Kosovo as a republic, if he does not use... and so he differed, and other parties at the time represented non-violently certain political goals. Slobodan Milosevic did not ban Albanians from representing the goal -- the Kosovo republic. You're making some kind of incomprehensible restrictions here, which may be restrictions for you as a civil servant, but you can't forbid me as a free citizen and a member of a party, not even to prescribe those goals. You haven't answered that question, so you've reintroduced that the parties can be banned on that same basis, which is why I see that you're just now preparing the ground for the new restrictions he's planning, apparently, the DS and this ruling majority, that with electoral law, with some kind of nebuloses, you're introducing further restrictions into our political life. The law is completely unnecessary. Do you have no other, smarter business in the crisis to work than to listen to how many political parties there are in Serbia? I don't think that's any of your business. I think you've done unwarrantedly, in this way of thinking, that the parties are some organizations that manage life and death. In law, you yourself have forbidden direct exercise of power by political parties. Of course, it has already been pointed out that it is not in accordance with the Constitution and that it is practically made possible by the parties. What's this about? Mr. Markovic, I told you that if this many states are interested in regulating the work of political parties, if you interfere with everything and everything, and you say that the party has to stick to the Constitution, the law and the program... As far as you're concerned, is he sticking to the political program? Does that interest the law, your ministry? Do you need to keep an eye on whether or not I'm sticking to a political program? Believe me, that's what voters decide. It's none of your business. You just have to say that it's free and give a few items, as it has been so far, that the law is brief and allows everyone to team up. What you are trying to limit political organisation in advance, and then by electoral law, even more liquidating parties in Serbia is something we should think about. I will only illustrate to you and show you that you are obliged, as minister, to defend only the public interests of citizens in every sphere, even in this sphere. What do I mean? From the moment the state introduced to allow certain parties to finance, you regulate where we don't have any problems. There are no problems with 500-600 parties, but where there is a problem you will not regulate, where party financing is, where political parties have become frozen in the people, which is because of political corruption. When it comes to party financing, you've done nothing, but solve where there's no problem. You said the minority had the right to organize. What do you have to say if he's going to do this or what, is he going to represent his minority interests? It's none of your business. You say the party's work is public. Is it not every time a meeting of the party's authorities can be closed to the public, for journalists, but at every party meeting they have to attend? Maybe we want to develop some campaign strategy, some tactics, and we don't want to have a public presence. You must leave that as our freedom. If I'm affordable, it's none of your business either, because I'm going to be punished. That's what voters decide, not administration. I just forgot to tell you what's very important to me, and that's -- when we discussed three and a half hours ago here whether the president of the political party is a public function, you said it wasn't, that it was a secret, that it was a private function, so you let the President of the Republic have another public function, and now you say it's terribly important. Everything from word to word you prescribe, and then you allow that possibility, that he has this other public function, because it's obvious that, according to what you've prescribed, it's super public and super important. Let me get back to that question. You need to worry about whether the state might be giving money out of a budget to an association, to some party that really doesn't exist. You're not going to impose order here, you're going to allow parties to tow, so those parties that don't exist say they have a mandate. So, you can pay through the tow truck. No party that is in the coalition, if it has no name, if it has come out under someone else's name, has the right to do so, but you continue to allow that tow to harm citizens, that such parties are paid out of the budget, as shown in that re-registration article. You didn't take care of the interests of the citizens and what is paid out of the budget, because it really doesn't make any sense that a party whose name wasn't in the coalition, which was tossing in, can then be singled out and asked for money from the budget. You haven't solved this problem, but you have, on the contrary, kept it going. Why do you need that, I don't know. I'm just gonna show the people how you guys do it. First you put in some kind of surveillance. The construction company falls off those skates, they have no inspection, no labour inspection, and you've introduced a customer inspection. What are you looking for? You're the party supervisory authority. Are you the head of all parties now? What do you want anyway? What you're doing is completely absurd. Then you took the penalty points, and you said, “If we do not report to you that we have established a territorial organization, for example, in the town of Smederev, or we have disbanded.” We need to keep you posted immediately. Are you baptized, are you even normal? Why should I inform you where I have a territorial organization and where I don't? Did you realize that you're the most drastic in the basic civil right to organize? You say the old man is the law. You're a new but stupid and absurd law. Milosevic's Law... For the first time in my life, I have defended Milosevic, a hundred times better law has passed than this one of yours. Why are we wasting this time on citizens? To make a new law. Well, in England there are all old laws. What difference does it make what was brought in 1990? That's not even 20 years old. If it doesn't change every five years, you get upset, so sooner or better to pass a new law. You could have cleared that register by asking these parties to give again, if they wanted to keep their registration, to pay 500 euros (who wants to pay, let them pay you), but not to ask the party in parliament to go and collect signatures, to fine the party cash if they don't put those names on the site. What's that insolence, that I'm setting everyone up to spy on these people who are in which stranger, that you have all his information?- I'm sorry. This is an unprecedented repression. Please withdraw this idiotic law you gave us. No normal man who advocates democracy would waste his time getting into the political right to organize like you did. Please don't make us give you new examples of inspections, fines, that you're in charge of us. The executive power cannot be in charge of us and civil rights; you should be the one to serve the people and protect the resources of the citizens, not to control the parties in such a brutal way. Is it possible for you to prescribe and what the application will look like? Now to all of us who have existed for years, we've joined together, you say we'll look like one. Now we have to change, LDP writes in Latin, you prescribed us what we're going to look like here. Do you realize that this law has completely failed you in the fundamental right of citizens? We didn't give amendments, because we would have to give each member an amendment, because the whole law is completely unnecessary. There's no reason for you, Mr. Minister, to make order when it comes to freedom of political association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17132	The word has Minister Milan Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17133	It's been a pleasure listening to you. No doubt you have extraordinary energy and you've shown it all these years and I congratulate you on that, but I have to tell you that you're wrong. Unfortunately, you're not quite right about what you said, except maybe what I realized was that I'm not very smart. Let's go in order, under the Constitution are forbidden secret associations, party work is public. When party work is said to be public, it means that the public must be informed of what the parties are doing, in the way the parties write it by their internal acts. This does not mean that someone will enter your party presidency, but since you say Milosevic's law was good, I will tell you that Milosevic's Law in Article 3 wrote – the work of a political organisation is public. It's standard. So I hope I've removed that remark. You say - why this law. I can't agree with you that everything is fine with us. I just don't think everything's right with us when it comes to political life, political parties and election processes. We can't go into improving our lives, political processes, election processes, unless we start from the beginning, which is to make a register of political parties. If tomorrow we say there's no need to harass citizens and spend huge money and harass the judiciary by collecting 10,000 certified signatures for the election campaign, we need to know first who has the right to the election campaign. If we say - has the right to register under this law, then there will be 650 more lists in some elections and we will practically devalue our entire election process completely and make it a circus. So first we need to see who really exists in our political life, so when we see if it's really 20 political parties... Because we have 20 political parties in the election. You know why? Because it's a high censorship of collected signatures. If there wasn't a censorship of collected signatures, I know that out of the last ten registered, all ten would be in the election, people are full of elan. If you think it's okay for us to have a list of 600 and some political parties, so 600 of them and something to send their observers abroad, so we can pay for the observers in the country, so for them 600 and something to form election committees, believe that we can't. I don't know if you've been involved in the election. We have to start something. What we're starting from is a register of political parties, which has to be arranged. When we talk about order, we think we can arrange a register of political parties, see who's a real political entity. In order for someone to gain the status of such a political entity, to participate actively and democratically shape the political will of citizens, he must be registered by the political party, and to be registered must skip a certain censorship. We've predicted that this censorship is 5,000 certified signatures, and we'll see what happens to the amendment relating to 10,000 signatures. That's why we need this law. In addition, this law is needed because it defines a number of other things that colleagues here have talked about, such as the name issue, the confusion that causes different names, such as the issue of re-registration, such as the issue of party representatives, such as a number of other issues, the issue of decision-making on the ban on the party, etc. You're talking about freedom of political association. The freedom of political association in every country, even in our country, is supported by certain organisms. It's not the same political association and association of citizens. Freedom of association is something else and we have prepared a law that provides for absolute freedom of association. When it comes to any physical, any legal faces, three are enough to build an association. Moreover, they don't have to register the association. It's the ones you're talking about, whether it's going to protect a clean river, clean air, and that kind of thing at the bar, form an association of citizens, protect whatever they want, it can be yoga flyers, whoever wants, form an association of citizens. These are citizens' associations and there is complete freedom proposed by the new Association Law, which you have supported as a political party, so we had to withdraw it because of the budget. Then, you say it was good in Milosevic's law – a hundred people forming a party. Who guarantees you are not the founder of two or three parties? Who guarantees anyone in this House that he's not the founder of a party without even knowing it? Of course I care. It's about protecting the fundamental rights and freedom of the citizens, my constitutional right. No one has the right to put my name on a list, get it out of the ballot and hand over and register a political party. So, Milosevic's law doesn't even have a system of checks, or requires signatures to be certified. This law requires signatures to be certified, so I don't know why you like the 1990 law so much. You're saying why we're asking the party to stick to the program. Because, on the basis of the party's programme, it is decided whether its registration will be accepted or not. If a party's program is to cultivate a national socialist ideology or fascist ideology, we won't accept it. If someone writes in their programme that it is for a democratic, liberal society, freedom, etc., and then does not adhere to the programme, but starts to advocate the abolition of the democratic system, we say – he must adhere, because if he said so immediately, he would not even be registered. I don't understand how you think that... Don't throw it away, so it has to be a program. You're saying why we're asking for a change in territorial organization. Because a significant number of parties choose their organs according to certain procedures. I assume you have some procedure in your party as you choose organs. In our parties, it comes to the parties being divided and then to come to the Ministry of Two Men, and one says: write me down as a person empowered to represent, and the other, enter me. This has to be solved by the Ministry. You see, you don't believe something the Ministry does. Then he has to solve the Ministry. In order for the Ministry to solve such problems, it has proved in practice so far that one of the key things is that the party organisation is regularly updated and presented. So do we have 180 municipal defenses or do we have 24? Has the congregation been defeated by one who had 35 municipal boards as a majority or by one who had 65 as a majority? It's something we meet almost every day, both for parties and for citizens' associations. I convey what problems we have in practice in resolving disputes within political parties or within the citizens' association that have won in some elections. Why is this important now? Because the person authorised to represent the party most often has resignations where resignations have been handed over, has the money, etc. You know, it's not a party to any association. It can't just come with some seal, push the ministry and say, "Sign me, Milan Markovic, that I am a representative of the Democratic Party; or, let's say, Cedomir Jovanovic, it's not possible for him to be a representative of the Democratic Party either. Do you think that's possible? Of course not. Therefore, the ministry is carrying out a certain prot-contra evidence procedure and on this basis makes a decision, and on the basis of that decision, after that decision, someone may appeal to the Supreme Court and resolve in the administrative dispute as well as further. You say why we didn't say - give 500 euros, so who gives 500 euros, we count him as a registered political party. Indeed, when you come to power, that's not how the state works, that's not how the state works. You can't say -- now you pay a fee of 500 euros, so you're registered. It's just impossible, I'm sorry. As for what a public function is, we discussed what a public function is. My argument at the time was about public authority. I still think that a public official is the one who has certain public powers and I stick to it. I think that's completely true and I don't see any problem. Therefore, I still think that the president of the political party does not have public authority in this regard, in which it would be a conflict of interest with the exercise of public functions. I really admire that after so many years of criticising Milosevic's law on political parties, which we have all criticised by saying that he made the political scene of Serbia what he did, you now say after 20 years that it was a great law and that it should not be changed. We just have a different attitude. I think we should change it the way we suggested. As for Mrs Djeric's remarks, I don't think it's necessary to make a name now because the founder's names will be on the site. The founder's names are present in the registers. They're public registers and everyone has the right to see them. There's no state of any special... We have so far, and you as MPs, and I as a minister and every citizen passing by, we have been able to see who are the founders of any party. We are, in principle, all proud of our founders, there is no dilemma. The question of founders is a matter of tradition. I believe that people in their party will want to be the founders of the party, that it is they who will be enrolled for all time that they were the founders of the party when they were registered. Don't let us scare anyone with that. It has nothing to do with the state having insight. What Mrs. Vesna Pesic says, the state wants to have some kind of surveillance and insight, it doesn't matter. The state has insights anyway, like every citizen, of who's the founder of a party. Party membership is something else, it's internal acts, and it doesn't have to be public. No one has to say whether he's a member of a party or not, but the party's founder is something else and there's no dilemma. Most of these things exist in positive regulations. There's nothing to argue about here. The things Mrs Pesic has now criticised have been passed by the Association Act, for example. At the time, it didn't bother the Association Act, and now in this law it bothers you. I think this is a purely political attitude. I think it's a complete delusion that political organization is absolutely free, it's not absolutely free in any country in the world, it's subject to certain restrictions everywhere. The association of citizens is absolutely free. In the end, it is the right of the state to ban political parties. It's the right of the state to ban the association of citizens. This right stems from two international documents which we have ratified: one European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and another document is the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, where it is said that the achievement of association can be subject to the restrictions provided for by law, which are necessary in a democratic society in the interests of national security, public security, public order and in order to protect public health and morals and the rights and freedoms of other persons. It's the international standard that we're calling on as a state, that we've ratified, it's now a positive regulation with us. Yes, it is. Mrs. Pesic says she didn't. All right, in Africa probably not, but I'm telling you what's in Europe. I don't understand at all, you get up and talk for 20 minutes, you absolutely haven't hit any of the topics related to this law. So I really have no intention of answering you anymore. If you have a problem with who charges as much of the state per month, whether it's a problem in the Social Democratic Union and LDP or not, you solve it internally, but don't attack me, or this bill the way you attacked him. At the very least, you can do that, but you won't get an answer. You need to know what's true. If you have a problem, solve it amongst yourselves. I, truth be told, have a problem because I don't see what states and taxpayers finance monthly with 973,000 when it comes to the Social Democratic Union. We'll see after re-registration, maybe Mr. Korac and show that he really has a political party, so we know why we finance a million dinars a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17134	The line was sought by Cedomir Jovanovic, Vesna Pesic and Zlata Djeric. As a representative of the parliamentary group, or do you want to go first? I'm just asking you to press charges one more time so I can give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17135	Mr. Minister, I have to say that I want to apologize if my tone was maybe a little too pronounced because I'm really amazed, and you could see and that I was very excited because I couldn't believe what and why this was done. Now I ask you a question - who is the founder of the Democratic Party? This client was founded. Are the founders, for example, Zoran Djindjic, Vladimir Gligorov, Vojislav Kostunica? It's a historical fact. Are you now looking for any new founders of the already joined parties? I tried to explain to you that you don't understand what the right to political association of citizens is. That's the fact that they've already joined together, the Democratic Party. You have no right to ask them for a new founding act. Why the new five thousand people, when the party has already joined? I told you, if you have any doubt that some associations don't exist, you could somehow clear that register if it bothers you so much, although that registry doesn't cause any trouble for you. So, you're making a new establishment of existing parties and denying our current merger, that we're united citizens fighting for certain political goals. You have hereby annulled it. The new 5,000 founders. We're already the founders of our own parties. Why do you deny it now? First of all, I don't see why you came up with a problem where there's no problem. Let me explain something to you, there is no fundamental right to association of citizens because there is a judo organization, because there are sports organisations, pigeons, fishermen, these or them. This came to the end of the internal wars in society because of the question of different beliefs. So different beliefs are the basis of political pluralism, not, you say, the association of citizens, fishermen or others. No, just political parties, political organizations. That's why, in modern society, it's come to a confession. You are now denying it and bringing it down to some special atmosphere and a special domain. So that's enough: political organizations. From what you said, we see that we can no longer organize ourselves politically at the local level, that you have completely abolished it, that you will not allow more groups of citizens, which we have had since the beginning of 1990, that citizens of ad hoc association, register and go to elections. Something is acute, they've joined together, and they're going to the election. You're forbidding it now. You will forbid them to go to the polls. So I pointed out that there was no need for any technical problem... You're now talking about someone coming to your door. No one comes to your door. If you have a problem, why don't you do a little? You're doing something. Why are you complaining here now? Do you have no other business every day than to settle party issues? (President: three minutes. People's MPs, replica time has been used. ) Let me just say that you have not yet answered the constitutional question – the basis for the abolition of the party, the vague formulation of territorial integrity and the integrity of the territory. We've been asking that question for the third time and you haven't answered. So, I apologize for the tone, but I think the other MPs understood my arguments and would not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17136	The word has Minister Milan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17137	Mrs Pesic, other MPs could only understand that you are not making a difference between a group of citizens and a political party at all. I don't know what further discussion is. After 20 years of politics, you don't tell the difference between a group of citizens and a political party? Mr Jovanovic says: "40 years", but 20 years in a multi-party system and you do not distinguish a group of citizens and a political party! Now you want us to discuss here and take time away from everyone, and you don't know the basics. I can't explain now what a group of citizens are and what a political party is. As far as the constitutional provisions are concerned, it is forbidden violently. If I'm not mistaken, in 2003 or 2004, I was defending your particular party, explaining that it was violent (when some people attacked your party because of your political views) the destruction of the constitutional order, the violation of territorial integrity, etc. It's a constitutional provision. I didn't answer, because I just thought you asked that as a question. I can't believe you don't get that. I just answered your question. If that had to be answered, then I won't again, I'll refrain from any further response.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17138	MP Cedomir Jovanovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17139	I asked for a replica, Mrs. Comic, because you weren't ready to explain to the minister how he could talk to the MPs in the Assembly. The way the minister addresses lawmakers who criticise his law is devastating. In fact, in such a relationship with the congregation, there is an answer to the fundamental question: Why is such a senseless law being passed? At this point we are discussing the law on political parties without any need, for no reason whatsoever, without any explanation of why it is done, unless the explanation is that the minister has to show us how something works. A year and a half ago, the minister proposed a law that caused chaos at the level of local self-government. Now he's already writing a new law. No one has spoken to the MPs in this way, where, of course, there is a great excuse for revolting MPs because of the way we are confronted with this law. He's full of nonsense. The ministry needs someone to report a relationship to local committees in Serbia because the minister is seeing people with two stamps. The parties that exist for 20 years need to wipe out their founders in order to get the names of new founders on the Internet. Why do they have to throw out new founders' names on the Internet? The minister here explains that the public office is different from the party president's. The president of his party is being heard by the minister. When asked -- on what right you do it, he says -- not as president of the state, but as president of the party. Let's see what the basis for the debate is at this point about this law. All the questions asked are absolutely rational, reasonable. Why are we making life so complicated? We need freedom, above all, freedom in political action. The fact that there are 500-600 parties cannot be considered an excuse to pass such a law. Ask for a financial report from the party, they must submit it by 15 April, and parties that do not have to be deleted from the register and some new ones can be established. What does playing with the Social Democratic Union look like? Why didn't you just tell everyone in this country that you're making a criminal a little bit so you can get out of the drawer when it suits you? Is the SDU breaking laws in this country? Being on the LDP list makes nothing less important to that party than any party that has been with you in the coalition. You're going to take one news story out of your semi-mafian newspaper and then you're going to shock the public for three days. We will not vote for such a law, among other things, because this law speaks of the character of the current government, which would subdue to itself and its incompetence all that is different from it. I expect other members of the ruling coalition to consider this. There are some principles we must protect. Since 1990, the parties in this country have been free to organise themselves. It's one of the few laws that isn't challenged. You challenged RIK. It is disputed in this country whether it is Wednesday or not today, whether we are before noon or before midnight, but the election results are respected in this country, first of all, by the work of the Republic Election Commission. You will now take out nine or 11 experts that Serbia will accept and respect their final will. That's not true. You're bringing chaos into the system, in those segments where he's never been before, and for no reason or reason whatsoever. It's a long debate. We'll be able to discuss this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17140	People's MP, if you want to talk about hurting the proceedings by the chairman, then you have a chance to look for a word based on article 100. Rules of Procedure. Then it's another kind of procedure. You have obtained the right to reply on the basis of a direct mention in the presentation of Minister of State Administration and local self-government Milan Markovic. If the minister present in the hall or any other minister violates any other business provision, he will be warned, as well as any MP. The exchange of replicas between the Minister and MPs has so far taken place in respect of all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to mutual respect and conduct and MPs and ministers participating in the work of the session, and you are free to point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure only in case you consider the chairman to have violated the procedure. Minister Milan Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17141	I would never turn to you in a way that would offend you. I have defended 16 or 17 laws and in this assembly no one has ever offended me except Mrs Vesna Pesic. This isn't the first time. That's what happened when I was a minister in the last term. So that no one in their right mind would do what I'm doing, if this was idiotic what I'm doing, that's what you can say. You think you're above the others, and you can't be told anything. You can't be told you didn't read the law. Now I can't tell you that you obviously don't know the matter. I cannot tell Mrs. Vesni Pesic that she does not distinguish the association of citizens from political association and that she does not distinguish a group of citizens from a political party. I insult Mrs. Pesic because I say she doesn't know it, and she herself says she doesn't know it. You're saying we're gonna overwrite some founders and sign up new ones, and I'm telling you we won't, because there's a six-month deadline to reregister, and it's reregistered by members' statements. That's what the law says. We're not going to wipe out the founders, so we can put in new ones. They're not founders in re-registration, they're members. You haven't read the law, but it's important that you speak so strongly against this law. I'm telling you, if you have any other problems, you handle it yourself. That's what I said because Vesna Pesic said that we as a state cannot arrange who receives money from the budget. He says someone's going on someone's list, and then they're out, and they're getting money from the budget. According to the report I have, I know that, let's say, Mr. Zarko Korać's SDU went with you and took money from the budget on its own. Mrs. Pesic asked me to handle it. I can't handle it. I'm not saying anything, Mr. Jovanovic, that you didn't initiate your MP club. I've done no insults, but I take offenses at my expense, and I'm asked to solve something I can't solve. Therefore, if I defend 16 laws in two terms and I am never offended, except for LDP MPs, Mr Andric, who now throws away, and Mrs Vesna Pesic, who directly insults me, means I can only conclude that you have a personal problem with me and nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17142	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn and not to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If the minister had lied in his statement, I would have warned him. Whether the minister will say the names of all party presidents who receive, and on the basis of the law, the amount, it is a free choice of minister, or it will say one or two or three names. I ask you not to deny the minister to lie. If he dares to do so, he will be warned and punished. He can't lie in the National Assembly. National MP Zlata Djeric has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17143	I will only remain on this minister's remarks...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17144	Sorry, MPs, MP Cedomir Jovanovic asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You will be entitled to a replica once MP Cedomir Jovanovic has used the right to replicated on the basis of Article 100(1). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17145	Mrs. Comic, I answered the replica precisely because you did not warn your party colleague, Minister Markovic, of violating the rules of normal work here in the Assembly. That by criticising the law he signed certain standards of the law, MPs qualified in the way LDP MP Vesna Pesic did nothing to give Minister Markovic the right to react in an uncultural way. There are very correct and clear questions here. Basically, why this law is passed and what its purpose is and what the meaning of it is. Parliament's Pesic cited anomalies that persist and remain in the air today. We've been asking for two years to regulate the area of party financing by law, and that doesn't seem to be, that then the minister here might point his finger at LDP MPs, the president of the party that's with us in the coalition, and in times of crisis, he's making a man who's responsible, I guess, for general poverty. Why hasn't it been regulated by law so far, why doesn't this law regulate it? The name of the party shall be prescribed in which language. What if it's not? What letter? Why does it have to be on a Cyrillic letter? The law is full of nonsense, and when it comes to this nonsense, then these questions require answers, not personal qualifications and insults, especially those people who provided, among other things, Minister Markovic today, that he can freely do his job.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17146	National MP, you are required to specify which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured during the session, directly. (Kadomir Jovanovic: Article 100) I can let you know I don't hurt the Rules of Procedure. The discussion and exchange of arguments between MP Vesna Pesic and Minister Milan Markovic was in respect of business provisions, as lively as it should be in one parliament. Just as there is no reason to warn and warn when the MP asks the minister if he is baptized and whether he is normal, so is no reason for warning and for warning when the minister responds that the argument of the MP is showing ignorance or that the law has not been read. These were exchanges between MP Vesna Pesic and minister, after which the MP with dignity and respect for the provisions said she was sorry if anything in the previous presentation offended the minister. If any of the participants in the session crosses the limit of tolerance or clearly violates the provisions, they will be warned and warned. It will not be prevented from being reasonable, and from time to time, a funny and lively debate between the MPs and the minister, whoever the minister is. I ask all of you to keep an eye on the words we say in the National Assembly Hall because we are bound by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17147	I really only have a fundamental objection to the public of the founder's data, so that they can be pointed out on the party's website. First of all, the minister said one thing, they were all registered and anyone could come to the Ministry and see the register to see who the founders were. Yeah, it's just one store people rarely practice. You'll admit that you haven't had such cases very, perhaps spordically, very rarely. But entering the site today is something that is a positive option for every electronic Serbian citizen (thank God we have many), a possible source of many abuses in the personal life of people who want to be founders and do not want to be more active in politics and influence, as we said yesterday, publicly on other people's lives. They want to clearly and publicly express their political position, but to some extent they must be protected. And so far, we have had checks, certified signatures and checks, when the lists are handed over, all those who support a particular political list, all who support a certain candidate for the president of the Republic could also give only one support. It has not been disputed so far, but it has left no space outside the Republic Election Commission to make those names otherwise... Unless someone's very intrigued, so they come to the Department of Local Self-Government and check out a case individually. That is the only reason why we remain on the fundamental note that this is certainly a kind of precedent and inadmissible possibility of abuse of citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17148	The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Korac. Right to replication based on direct reference. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17149	My party is mentioned, and not for the first time, yesterday without a name, and today with a full name, I'm going to take a stenogram. I don't have any personal problems with the minister, and I suppose fellow Members of Parliament and MPs know that I don't insult anyone, I'm not a man who acts like that. I'd like to know why it's being declared here, and I'm going to give a stenogram to the minister, because he doesn't seem to know what he said, that the relations in the group that I'm in are vague and unarranged, which can qualify as one completely incorrect claim, are quite arranged. I notice that a single daily paper, which is very specific, has also used it today and said that my party is taking something from the people, although all accounts are subject to financial inspections and at any time these financial institutions can enter the party and see if the funds are legally or illegally spent. By the way, I personally don't make any financial profits in the party. I was going to say the following, responding to the proposal of this law. We've waited a long time to gain the right to freedom of political organization. There are two rules that need to be balanced, like most laws and most rules. The first is freedom of political organisation, which has a precedent in pluralist society so that people can organize freely, their political interests of the dam, and the second is to introduce some order. There's a fully-relocated claus on the side of the restrictive. We're in a situation where people... Pay attention, it's not about us, it's about Serbia's political future. Some group of people who want to start a party they don't have yet, some young people, it doesn't matter if they're young, they have to have money to verify 5,000 signatures. Why limit them? Another thing, when you take experiences from the region, in Montenegro is done differently, I apologize, as far as I know, that 5,000 signatures are probably in Finland, in Slovenia there are 300; if we multiply Slovenia's size with Serbia, then there would be 1,000 in Serbia. Slovenians, Montenegrins have much less requirements with signatures, when it comes to the region. In Montenegro, it is arranged so that all parties that are in parliament (they took in municipalities, there are many more municipalities in Serbia, in our case it would probably be a province) are automatically registered because they have already passed the election cycle. And it could have been done. This is where it went very restrictively and it makes it impossible... Not to us, the parties you see here will probably collect those signatures, they exist for a long time. It's about people who want to deal with politics. How are they going to raise money to verify 5,000 signatures in the municipality? Especially since counterpart Ruzic, here he is, to quote from the SPS yesterday, showed that the party can act locally and that 5,000 signatures can be the total number of voters in a local Serbian region. It's an anomaly that's already been implanted. Once again, my fellow Members and fellow Members, I ask you to think carefully about whether we are now with this strict restriction on the rights of people to organise politically we have failed the spirit of democracy and pluralism. That's why we act this way, because this law is much more important than it looks right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17150	Right to replication and violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Andric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17151	I answered because I was mentioned, of course. I continue to claim that this is an abuse by the minister, and now I will try to explain and how, and what will you look like on behalf of that ministry to us to review the programmes. So whoever criticises the law will be on the front page of the mob newspaper "Pres" today, and his picture will be found everywhere, and those who do the same, and members are ruling coalitions and silent, will be kept silent by the minister. That's why I reacted so hard, and that's why I was yelling from my place, even though I had no right to do so, and I provoked you to give me a warning. It wasn't done once. The minister did it three times in a few minutes, clearly accusing Mr. Koraq as the main culprit for the crisis and the failure of the society that is happening to us. The intention is clear and we are asking the question of the reasons why this law was passed, with a very clear intention. So, the minister is in a certain way blind and obedient to the idea of Boris Tadic, by which two parties must exist in Serbia, so when it is not possible in the elections, then we will first amend the law on parties, then the law on elections, so the law on the Republic Commission, and you can immediately pass the law under which the parties Tadic and Vukic exist. There's no need to talk about anything. Is that the ultimate goal? Everything you do goes that way. It may be for the country and it's better to have fewer parties, but it'll be decided by the citizens. In countries that have two parties, the ruling parties have not decided on this, but is the result of decades of development or hundreds of years of democracy. It can't be passed by restrictive laws. Of course, once again I warn, Madam Chairman, I really think it's about abuse. If there's anything that's prof. Korac worked against the law, then it should be resolved in the way it is handled, but Mr. Zarko Korac operates under the law proposed by this minister, in the assembly where most of the majority who chose this minister and ultimately uses the same thing as at least ten other parties from the coalition of Mr. Ministers. The marking of Zarko Korac as the culprit is a persecution, and the minister has no right to do so and it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17152	The word has Minister Milan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17153	I don't know what happened in the paper this morning, and in which, I didn't really look at the paper this morning, but I'll say something. There's no dilemma that there's no abuse in the fact that some political party gets what the law says, or anyone here is talking about that kind of abuse, or I said there's an abuse. I said there's a illogicality in our political system. I wouldn't mention that Mrs. Vesna Pesic didn't say that we should solve it. I took a decision on redistributing funds from the budget and realized that there are several groups, it is nothing controversial, there are 20 parties receiving money from the budget, and 20 lists did not enter this parliament, a much smaller list entered parliament. So, it's not Mr. Korać, there's other parties, DHSS, so I don't know any further by coalitions. I don't know who was on the list and who wasn't. Far from Mr. Korach... Let me tell you something, no matter what I say now, everything Mr. Korać has done in the past 20 years, ever since there is a multi-party system in Serbia, as well as Mrs. Pesic, I deeply appreciate and I think most people who have had the idea of developing a democratic society in Serbia think like me. I only reacted to something repeated by Mrs Pesic several times. I can't even say that I'm angry or that I have the right to be angry, I respect Mrs. Pesic too much to be particularly angry. But you have to understand that someone was working on this. I worked on this, we worked for months, we had a public debate and more than 20 parties participated in a public debate, hundreds of people participated in a public debate, we worked on it, and it's not right to say if I was baptized, whether I'm normal, whether this is idiotic, etc. You understand, someone's been working on this, someone's been trying, someone's invested in knowledge. I'm a graduate lawyer, a lawyer. I specialize in security. I kind of have a basis for doing this, maybe more than someone else. I was the president of the municipality, I was a councilman, I was an MP, I was vice president of the Assembly, I know what I'm talking about. I've participated in all the elections, from the one that makes the posters, puts the flyers in the boxes, works at the polling station. I know what I'm talking about. And you're so critical of my work, with such qualifications, and it turns out that you don't distinguish a group of citizens and a political party, and you still resent why I answer to that. As for one thing that Mr. Jovanovic said, which comes to mind, so now I'm not helping him, nor getting back at him, the Law on Local Elections is probably the best we've had so far, and I can't figure out why you're bringing such a lie to the public that it has caused chaos in local self-government. This law has endured the secession of a party that has over 1,000 council members in the Republic, 620 committee members were disputed. Do you know what would happen under the past law, when the state didn't have, when the law didn't know any instruments to solve such a situation? Well, we'd have chaos, fighting, who knows what would happen all over Serbia. This law provided for clear instruments, transferred decisions to judicial authorities, instead of to administrative authorities, to executive authorities. We made the perfect law for our time. The lack of our law is our electoral system, and when we discuss the electoral system, we will see which party observes its relationship with the citizens. I propose a change because now the ruling coalition is such that it agrees to change the electoral system, and the change in the electoral system that I now propose as a promotion of our local self-government system is that citizens decide who will be their committee rather than the political parties decide on it. Citizens vote, and political parties choose. Do you think that's fair? Of course not. I'm sure you'll think twice about this bill. I've been to your place, and I've talked about it, and I expect you to support this crucial, revolutionary change in the political system with us, to give the citizens the right to choose. They should choose the name and last name of the man who represents them in parliament. We're not the ones who are smarter than them, so we're gonna choose people on their behalf. That's why we're changing the law now, Mr. Jovanovic. I repeat, the law passed by the Assembly in the last term is, believe me, the only law so far that would withstand what happened to us on the ground, which is 620 controversial mandates in local self-government units. That law went through. We have several temporary organs in place, which is nothing controversial, and in others, it is resolved without the introduction of temporary organs and we have really no problem. We have only 5% of the court's decisions that are slightly deviating from what was the spirit of the law, which is why temporary authorities were finally introduced because there was a labour blockade. In any case, I apologize to Mrs. Pesic, especially Mr. Korač, if I have done any harm in any way. I repeat, everything the party receives, each in this House, has been established by law. That goes for Mr. Korać's party, and for my party, and for the DHSS, and for the other parties, G 17 plus, SPO, DS, everyone works by law, it's nothing controversial. I'll tell you one more thing, under this law, the status of the political party will be able to have, without re-enrolling, only one who won parliamentary status under the coalition agreement. Not on the basis of someone on someone's list, but on the basis of a coalition agreement. Let's go forward. This law is the basis for changing our political system. You're asking why this law is needed. Well, this law is necessary because under this law we can change the electoral system tomorrow, we can deprive parties of the need to collect 10,000 famous signatures before each election. Remember the circus we had here, and it turns out that in some elections, the leader of one party supported the candidate for mayor of the other party. Have you forgotten what kind of circus we have in the political system? The Republic Election Commission has been mentioned. Mr. Jovanovic says it's great, and I say the Republic Election Commission is not good. It does not meet the standards of democratic society in any way. I remind you that this same Republic Election Commission has delayed the inauguration of the President of the Republic in an extremely illegal manner because one single citizen voted with an expired ID card. That was completely illegal, because it doesn't change the result of the election, absolutely insulting the will of the citizens. It has been postponed for 14 days by the president's inauguration. Mr Jovanovic, are we waiting for a situation when this same Republic Election Commission will postpone someone's inauguration by six months on the same basis, by sending someone 20 of its own and organising to vote with an expired ID card? Is the good Republic Election Commission trusted by citizens less than 5%? It's not a good Republic Election Commission. This Republic Election Commission depends on our will – if we agree correctly, everything is fine. Look, Mr. Jovanovic, we didn't make any arrangements at the time, so it wasn't good. That's why we need to change it, it needs to be a professional body, it needs to be independent, it needs to work solely on the basis of the law and the Constitution, not on the basis of instructions from political parties. It is the body that implements the most important process in a democratic society. It's the body he's carrying out... (Ivan Andric, from the place: Sonja Licht. Don’t mention such names now. So that's what this is about. It's not my idea just like that, it's not hot water invented, it exists in other countries around the world, and we need to be like those states, at least when it comes to the political system. Citizens don't trust our political system. Citizens don't trust our political parties. We've had elections recently. A group of citizens got 18 or 16%, doesn't matter, does that tell you anything? Does that tell you anything, does something tell you that citizens' turnout is 40%? What are these individuals, which political parties, in general, how much does our political system give citizens confidence? We have the legality. Are you sure we all have legitimacy? You have a party leader. The party leaders have legitimacy. What about the rest of us? We offered the citizens leaders, and then we all made our way through the lists. The electoral system needs to be changed. Our political system needs to change. The political party system needs to be changed. The Law on the financing of political parties should be amended. Those are the reasons, Mr. Jovanovic, which is why we're doing this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17154	Right on line, MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17155	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has seen all sorts of things this assembly has seen for 80 years as long as it exists. I think what you said will still find some place in history. I must remind you that in 2000, we won 176 seats in the elections, and that the formation of a government, the constitutional session of parliament, was waiting for the re-election of several polling stations precisely because we respected the law. We respected the law, Mr Markovic, and in 2000, including in 2008, when the vote was repeated because of the illegal vote in one polling post. That fact goes in favour of RIK and goes in favour of the winner of the election, President of the Republic of Tadic, because it is a proof of respect for the law in this country, in which the law was very little respected. You're talking about the right of citizens to finally choose their own representative. In what conditions and in what atmosphere? In Serbia, in which the media are under absolute control of the regime; in Serbia, where normal political action is impossible; in Serbia, where you, among other things, are in charge of solving the problem that the country's political life is being followed, you have not held any consultations with the parties, you have discussed, you have seen what they think about the need for reforming the country's political system, but you have come before us with the law on political parties and with the written law on local elections, the same you who came out with the law a year and a half ago. Well, you wrote that law for one single reason -- not to protect Serbia from partitioning in a party, if these divisions come, but to raise a censorship on local self-government and thus force a whole series of parties to obey you and to go to elections on your list, because otherwise they could not cross the censorship. That's the only reason to change that election law, raise the censorship from 3% to 5%. The Liberal Democratic Party amended the law in the election year, without any prior agreement, cost its presence in the 80 local self-government of Serbia, as we were between 4.8 and 5% in the May elections in Serbia's municipalities. In what atmosphere are elections held in this country? You're saying that a citizen has the right to choose his own representative. You did not propose this in future amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, but citizens will choose party representatives, and parties will decide who will eventually enter parliament. I'm sorry, in 1990, we had such an electoral law and elected MPs for the Serbian Parliament in the majority elections, and by 2000 we had an election law by which local councils were elected in the majority elections. You can't, Mr. Markovic with 25 or 30% support to take all the power in the country. That's not good. Not because it's not good for one political party to have power, but because in the last six months you've made a mess out of that government. You've come to us with a 12-page law that you've worked hard on for months. Maybe it is. Where is the Statute of Vojvodina? It'll be by the summer, that's the last story. We're worried about that kind of relationship. See how much chaos the Constitution has produced itself. You've been working on the law for months... (President: Three minutes, MP. ) The Constitution was voted longer than was discussed. This is your authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17156	National MP Miroslav Markicevic wants to use his four minutes, which he left at his disposal as a representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17157	Dear Vice-Presidents, Mr. Minister, respected fellow MPs, New Serbia MPs, considering the law on political parties, want to draw attention, on behalf of them, on behalf of the MPs' club, to a phenomenon that I think is very important for the public to work on Serbia's political scene, which has not been mentioned at all. That's what they're called. NGOs, which are founded by political parties. I'm asking Mr. Minister if he thinks it was important for the citizens to know. All the honours of NGOs, many of them are involved in humanitarian work, which New Serbia has great respect for, but I don't think that this humanitarian work should make political points. For this reason, the public, and you as a resolute ministry, would have to answer some questions to the citizens. For example, on your ministry's website, there is a display of deleted organizations, or political parties. There was, or was, a political organisation called "Our Serbia". The person authorized to represent and represent this party is Dragan Gilas. The organisation was deleted from the register, listen well to the date, citizens and fellow MPs, 25 January 2007. Is that the same Dragan Gilas who was director of the People's Office of the President of the Republic? Was he at the same time the leader of a registered political party in this country, in state authorities? Does this political organisation "Our Serbia" have anything to do with the NGO "Our Serbia", which seems to me to have some camps in Zlatibor or I don't know where, where many celebrities and athletes have come to promote the idea of helping children without parents, which we respect, we just want to know, it seems to me that this is important for the public, whether it is a double representation of one man. Is "Our Serbia" an NGO or political party? First of all, the DS, you should have told the citizens that the Director of the National Office... I don't know if it's still working. It's not current right now. For a time, it was very current in the media, people's offices were being held in many cities in Serbia, and we, who are professionally involved in politics, know that they were the outposts of the Democratic Party. Mr. Minister, I have a question: can two organisations with the same name be registered, an NGO and a political party? The political party "Our Serbia" was deleted from the register on 25 January 2007 and its representative, i.e. Mr. Dragan Gilas – is that Dragan Gilas, who was the director of the National Office and the current mayor of Belgrade? What do you think of this, anyway? I think the public in Serbia has been deceived; someone who represented himself as an NGO is, in fact, a political party. Should this be sanctioned by some sublegal act within the framework of the political party law, to regulate it, peopleally speaking, that they do not wander into the peoples of cowardly eggs through some NGOs? I can talk a lot about it. I can also talk about NGOs set up by the Democratic Party to defile political opponents. These NGOs have lasted like... Their life lasted like the life of a butterfly cabbage, a few days. If it's necessary, I'll talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17158	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The time available for the president of the parliamentary group is eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17159	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in this unnecessary debate, we must try to find, among other things, some meaning, because it would be worse to agree to a meaningless law. So there are some amendments that have been written and I think it would be good to focus seriously on these amendments and thus try to correct the draft law on political parties. It is important to highlight the need to reform our political system, among other things, and to better regulate the law on political parties, given that there are obviously some problems. But the way you, Mr. Markovic, tried to do that has led us to a position from which we cannot assess your initiative differently, except that we consider it harmful. We'll tell you what's the key to this law. It is a threat to freedom and imposing criteria which, even in much more developed democracies, like those you say, produce many problems, which is why they are not the rule of political work throughout Europe. Mr Markovic, when it comes to political parties in the country, then citizens, which we are talking about, are thinking about funding parties, or the way parties and businesses in Serbia connect, are thinking about party privileges. When it comes to political parties in Serbia, here, among other things, the parties also discuss leadership and individual rights to control the entire party. This law has not been treated. The political party law practically defines only the party's formation procedure, sets out the grounds on which the party will operate and define the party's suspension procedure. Why are we now discussing this law, not all the laws that are necessary and which would have to follow this debate in order to be able to say that we have reformed the political system? In your previous address to parliament, you spoke of party leaders as party rulers who trample on the will of citizens, their voters, imposing some internal rules and assuming them rules stemming from respect for public interest. What right does such freedom come from the party leader, among other things, to replace or appoint MPs and councilors? Who gave this right to the leader and did we who opposed that right that you gave (I don't mean personally, but your party and you as authority) today have the credibility to tell you that you must seriously consider this law, because it is obvious that in the past we were right? This is not the way to reform the country's political life. In this way he's just hermetizing himself, moving away those who need politics, which are generations of some new people, with fresh ideas. The political system is preserved and the parties are pushed into each other's arms or, worse than all that, the parties are pushed into violation of the law, and the authorities will, in accordance with their needs, assess whether they should respond to such a thing or not. That's why we can't agree to something like this. The country's political life has been regulated since the 19th century. When you analyze the liberal value of what you are proposing to us today as law and in the 1990 law, and the "dark" SFRY, then you will see that there was much more freedom there than we offer to citizens today. Do you need order? Yes, it is. Are you right when you say there are too many parties? Yeah, you're right. This was, among other things, knowingly nurtured, the relationship in which chaos was produced, in order to harm those who are seriously involved in politics. But there are other ways for those who have misused political freedom of punishment without jeopardizing the political freedom of those who will not abuse it. That's what we need to think about. It is enough to ask the parties that have registered the financial report, to see if they participate in the political life of the country or not. whether they run in elections, local, province, republican, presidential. If few simple criteria are not met, these parties will cease to exist, similar to the fact that they do not participate in the political life of the country, but will not close the door to those who may join us tomorrow in political life. You should understand that, too, in the criticisms we put forward, you need to find some benefits for yourself, not an explanation for the division of power and opposition. Neither the representatives of your ruling coalition are satisfied with this solution. Whether they will vote for him because they have no choice or because they will make internal arrangements with you that will exclude them from the application of this law, we do not want to enter into it. It's hard for us to understand what it's going to be like. LSDV, who has his logo for 20 years, is now changing that logo. I don't understand why the Liberal Democratic Party, which is almost four years old, would have to do that. We don't understand where the point is in such a provision, unless it's intended to create a problem where there's no problem, because you don't say what's going to happen unless it's done. Will you ban a parliamentary party from registering, if it insists on its party mark, if it uses the Latin? So what kind of land are we making? Are we going to do something worse than that, submit to you, in accordance with the law, our acts, and then break that law at every second step? That's ridiculous. Let's go back to a few key questions in this law. This is the need to publish on the website the names of the founders of the political party. This is not a problem in the case of the Liberal Democratic Party, but we are interested in the extent that the state is able to protect any kind of integrity of people who thus present their political views and represent political commitment. That's what I'm asking you because 100 LDP committees have been attacked and destroyed over the past year. Our client's presidency is on fire. No one was responsible for that. How do you expect us to introduce to you our founders, with names, addresses, to endanger them and their families, and why is such a thing necessary at this time? I'm obliged to tell you because we have to obey the law, so we're going to go out with those five grand, and then we're going to have to think about whether someone at their door is going to put a bomb, like they put on the judge's door in the Bookman. Who does something like that come in favor of? We cannot agree with your finding that we have actually supported the law on associations of citizens in which some criteria are defined that are contrary to what we advocate today, because something like that is not true. We want today the law on citizens' association, and it is not, not because we had to start a debate on the budget, because the debate was closed nearly four months ago, but because the government does not want the law to regulate the area of the civil sector, so that every actor in that segment of our public life would be criminalised and exposed to suspicions – how it is financed, which are the objectives of his work, from which he receives the tasks. That's what we talk about when we criticize your initiative. There is a list of priorities, and you have ignored that list, and in the first place you have put a law for which there is no clear need and which produces a lot of problems, endangers civil liberties, primarily fundamental freedom to uninterrupted political action, by raising the scale, sharpening the criteria and thus making it impossible for citizens to deal freely with politics. You violated the Constitution, which you had previously imposed on us. Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for letting me finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17160	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17161	Very briefly, in legal traffic and registration, a Cyrillic letter must be used. No one's going to make anyone change; if G17 plus, LDP, LSV or anyone has, they'll have as much as they've done so far, it's nothing controversial. In legal traffic and registration, a Cyrillic letter is used in the register and for the parties of national minority languages and letters and national minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17162	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17163	I just wanted to tell Mr. Secretary one more time that that question was cleared up. I really didn't mean you, but I was making remarks, and my intensity was that MPs understood when I used the term "a group of citizens" that it was better in that first law, when it comes to political organisations. For example, the first political organization I was in was the famous UJDI and we registered and participated in the elections. There's a danger that by singleing out political parties... We've also had political organizations, and that's the broadest notion, and under that firm there can be parties and various forms of association, and that shouldn't be something to worry about the state. I pointed out that this country's excessive interference with the fundamental right of a subjective citizen to political association, because it is freedom, political unification, all other forms are more or less disturbing to anyone or causing any conflict. If you don't understand me here, I think I've been clear enough and I've shown that this law is excessively restrictive. A name was mentioned earlier, as Cedomir Jovanovic said, you see, a fine should be paid when I say Democrats, because it is said that I can only use the name as written in the register. When I say radicals, here's a fine. Wait, is that in the law or not? You told me I didn't read the law. I read it very well. So why are you getting so involved in this? We say, "Democratic." Here's the fine because I called them that, and the register says the Democratic Party. What's wrong with you? That's why I was so surprised. Why is that so exciting? I can ask you a question about this article 30 - re-enlisting. You said there was a coalition agreement, but please look, I am not holding the Assembly back and I am not taking the time, absolutely, Mr Markovic, not to mention any coalition agreement, no coalition agreement, no question of the coalition of political parties here is being discussed. The political coalition can be that way when the names of those on that ballot mentioning the name of each party, say the SPS-PUPS-JS coalition, that's one way. Another way is when the party does not appear, however, it is not precise here. No contract is mentioned here in order to clear this matter up, but, on the contrary, it remains unclear. If that question remained unclear, you can see from the last position of Article 30, where you say, "The ministry determines the facts and data of the 5th position of this member under official duty. "(Chairman: Time, Mrs. Pesic, please finish. ) So, you will, by your official duty, decide who received the mandate and who did not get the mandate, because the issue of political coalitions has not been clarified. I'm on it at speed, because I'm running out of time, and I'm getting distracted. Afterwards, you mentioned some political contracts, and this article does not say at all when you release the party registrations that are in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17164	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the SRS, Miss Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17165	Mr. Novakovic, thank you. Because of the regime campaign against the MPs of this prestigious home, I must say, I apologize for sitting, but simply, the technical possibilities are such that the voice is best heard while the MP sits and speaks from the scene. Yeah, that's true. I spoke to the technical service, Mr. Novakovic, I have technical experience, eight years old, not negligible. The microphone radius is recognizable, so the microphones for the payphone, as you can see, are much bigger than those for the place, and the Rules of Procedure are not foreseen whether they are standing or sitting while they are being exposed. Until that is defined, I assume that parliament and the public in Serbia will respect these arguments. Also, there is another possibility – to talk at a pay phone. For example, I fellow MPs who speak from the lower ranks don't hear or hear every second or third word. If that were true, it was confirmed by a man who was responsible for the technique, who was sitting behind me. I hope that problem will be resolved soon. I know that people from technique work every day after 18 hours to some late evening and night hours, but that is a huge problem, Mr. Novakovic, and, for your information, the only accurate and precise information when it comes to the technique in the Assembly. What I am also pleased to say now is that it is definitely clear to the public in Serbia that the Boris Tadic regime is creating a political scene with two parties, the Democratic Party and the party so-called. Adversary. Mr. Minister, I must tell you that your behavior is completely unacceptable and inappropriate. I felt like I was on Belgrade streets, in certain Belgrade areas, not in a congregation home. So the way you address the MPs is really inappropriate. I don't think you're here to go into controversy with the MPs, but to answer questions, whatever she may be, which doesn't justify any of us crossing the boundaries of domestic education. Mr. Minister, you didn't bring us yesterday, not today, nor will you convince us that you would bring work into the state of Serbia. Even home education requires that at least look at the speaker talking to you, I speak to you personally. The degree of ignoring is sufficient evidence for the Serbian public of the Serbian government's attitude towards the SRS. You, in fact, took your right to continue talking about this law yesterday because you have crossed the electoral will of citizens, have not answered my question of what parliamentary elections the SNS participated in. When I talked about it, you were, like now, laughing and making fun of it. So, I'm really glad that the Serbian public is daily confident in a state project that is trying to erase the SRS, in fact, from the existence of political parties in the state of Serbia. So, I almost don't need to talk about it anymore. I am also pleased to see the tolerance of holding a session of the National Assembly – allowing MPs to earn speakers, banging on benches. Because of the "living style" that Mrs Comic spoke of some time ago, the MPs of the SRS were expelled from this parliament. We will be able to prove the procedural mistakes made in giving the most severe punishments. What cameras are now recording in the part where SRS MPs should be sitting is definitely a picture and an opportunity of democracy and a degree of democracy in Serbian society. I would like you, Mr. Minister, to answer my question on behalf of some 1,200,000 votes and 78 mandates won by the SRS in the May parliamentary elections (and we are in the Serbian parliament and not in some local one) – when did the SNS, in which parliamentary elections, participate? How is it that you yourself call SNS MPs and thus exceed the will of the citizens expressed in May 2008? I know this is probably causing an allergic reaction with you, but there you are, you have to bear with every question I have and in a civilized way provide as many qualified answers as possible. I have to admit that you did a good job of derivating your knowledge yesterday. What I'm also interested in is - what has the Ministry of Justice been doing so far when it comes to checking the founder's lists? You were saying, if I was right, that the list of founders in electronic form should be found on the Internet, so as not to reduce abuses in the sense that man and not knowingly can be on the list of founders of more political parties. I'm interested in what the ministry has done so far and whether the electronic form on the Internet only makes it possible, because it also seems to me that part of the surveillance is precisely that such abuses do not occur. What was also very recognizable to me is that you have, on condition, spoken about turnout in the elections, about the need to bring order to political life in the state of Serbia. I will try during today, and especially during the debate on details, to tell you that you are unable to do so, because in Mr Tadic's regime, what did not happen in Milosevic's time, which is that the electoral will of citizens has definitely been reversed. You are trying to pass laws that should regulate political life and respect the free and democratically expressed will of citizens in the elections, and you have given all the arguments and reasons for the SRS and the Serbian public not to believe it. It is also an answer to that semi-argument of yours why the citizens' turnout in Serbia is low, why the group of citizens wins. Citizens do not trust you, the executive government, the Democratic Party, because what citizens express in the elections ends later with political decisions in parliament. You've finally looked at this side. Thank you. Of course, I hope I get answers to all these questions that I asked you yesterday, but I'm guessing because of the end of the session you weren't in a position to answer. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17166	The word has a minister, Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17167	Mrs. Ragush, don't get me wrong, but as you can see, there are big screens here. I think you understand. At the very least, you spoke yesterday and I didn't notice. You saw there was no ignoring, so there's no ignoring now, of course. I understand one part of your questions, but I'm not in charge of answering them. The issue of the dispute over the mandates between the SRS and the SNS is in the jurisdiction of other authorities, certainly not in the power of the executive authority, nor should it be in the power of the executive authority. As far as the coalition is concerned, we have put in law not to reregister those who perform their own participation, or in a coalition with other parties. The coalition will be defined and defined by election laws, and I mean even some RIK instructions, I can't be sure, but it will certainly be defined by a new law on the election of MPs. Certainly, defining the coalition is no place in this law. As for the term "political party", this law on political parties is in line with the provision of a constitution that defines very political parties as actors and implies the adoption of such a law. As far as abuse is concerned, it's not a suggestion to put it on the site... I mean, if most MPs don't think they should, there's one amendment to Mr. Colakovic that can be adopted and I don't think there's gonna be a problem. We'll talk more on the board. It's not to prevent abuse. Abuses will be prevented by certified signatures. It would be far better if we had those names on the Internet, not because of abuse, but because of that commitment and closeness of citizens and political parties. So there are all kinds of recommendations for people who went through all of this before us, so there's a parallel experience. And they have had and sometimes have crises of the legitimacy of actors of political life. One of these recommendations is precisely to try as widely as possible to open the doors of political parties to citizens, to make sure that citizens have as much insight as possible into everything that makes up the political party. My opinion remains that there should be a name and a last name, without further data. But if this is so slow, I suggest we talk to the presidents of the political parties. In the end, to adopt the amendment by Mr. Colakovic and resolve the name and last name issue on the website. I say again, I don't believe anyone will be at risk of security because he's the founder of a political party. I'm almost sure of it. Nor do I believe in any way that we are being brought, as people dealing with politics, into an unequal position. We do public work, we want people to know who we are. We don't write our address there, blood type, birth number, we only write our name and last name. I still think it should stand, but in the end, MPs will decide on the amendments and we will discuss it on the Committee on Local Self-Government. As far as this dilemma is concerned whether we want to introduce a two-party system or something, it's really not true, nor is this the way of introducing a two-party system. Political parties currently have too many in Serbia. Political parties should be organised and have some potential. It is not right that someone who has less than one prominence of his political idea has the status of a political party and is running for office tomorrow without any qualified criteria. Imagine an election where we would give everyone a run for office and have, say, 200 or 300 presidential candidates! Nor is political life and representation in parliament a proportion, a statistical review of various opinions in the public. That's not true at all. Political elections are a game where the biggest and strongest political idea wins. Because if otherwise it were true, then a question would be asked what kind of parliament it would be, we should have eight million people in parliament; the laws themselves should have a percentage of these, of those, of some third ones, and we know that laws are passed by the majority of those present. I think it's a well-known thing, many wrote about it, above all Slobodan Jovanovic. So it's not a political game, a political race and a political representation relative to the representation of ideas. It's simply a game between ideas, among those who take responsibility for their ideas to be realized in public afterwards. That's why it needs to be open, it needs to be completely clear and precise, maybe a little bit and rigorous, because when you get the result of every political cycle, that result has to be such that the idea that won can be implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17168	The breach of the Rules of Procedure indicates Mr Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17169	I'm advertising a violation of Article 93. A Rules of Procedure, which regulates the way the word is given. Minister Markovic has been our colleague here for many years and has repeatedly advertised this same provision. Mr. Secretary, you don't have to answer after every speaker. It is not your obligation to report after each of the Members of the People, so go ahead and apply the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17170	Thank you. We've received this well-intentioned warning, and you're right. Miss Marina Ragush is entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17171	This is another picture of how the technical system should improve and I look forward to it. So, of course, Mr. Minister doesn't have to appear after every speaker and answer the dilemmas and any questions that are raised before him, democratic procedures and interactive relations, but I expect that you will finally answer the two questions that I ask you on a regular basis. Obviously, that's my basis for replica, you and I don't understand. You are also how your own, not to speak of mandates, of course it is not your jurisdiction, which has been disputed here since the end of 2008, but how you are own to speak about political parties, the political atmosphere and the situation in this House, by breaking something that is the electoral will of citizens and thereby insulting almost 1,200,000 citizens who voted for the SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj in the May elections in 2008. With a detailed explanation later, in terms of the legitimacy that only takes place in the elections, Mr. Minister, you are to the entire Serbian public and to me in part, although not so precise and clear, because you are very likely not to be able to answer that, you gave the answer. What I am also interested in, in accordance with all the things you were saying earlier, and I have missed asking it as a question, I expect you to answer this question for me, is – which commission, who will determine whether the party represents a policy that diverts from the proposed programme that was adopted when the political party was formed? Are we slowly but surely entering a period of ideological commissions? What we can express as a doubt, because it is the experience of the SRS all these years, especially since the end of 2008 and this 2009 but not at all different from, say, 2000 or 2003, is that it will be an abuse of interpretation whether the political party is propagating, conditionally speaking, a policy that can morally insult one of the authorities, so I would like you to answer my question – who are the people who will decide and supervise in this way?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17172	I give my word to Mr. Milet Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17173	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I do not think it is necessary to specifically talk about the importance of political parties in our society's political system, because it is clear and understandable to all and it is potential in yesterday's and today's debate in particular. In addition to politicians, however, political organisations are also concerned with legal theorists, i.e. scientific workers, legislators and citizens. I think everyone has good intentions and clear goals. The theorists want to establish the best concept, the legislator to regulate this area legally by respecting the Constitution and declaring the rights of citizens and modern experience in this regard, and citizens want to exercise their rights more effectively through political parties in the institutions of the system, i.e. through the authorities, although it seems to me that only 3% of the citizens are organised through political parties. All these entities have been dealing with political parties for a very long time in Serbia's political space. In 1881, as is known, the first authentic political parties in Serbia were formed, and now, after 120 years, there are 570. We have great experience in this respectable period, which needs to be analysed when adopting this law. After all this time, I am convinced that today we are passing a modern law on political parties. I wouldn't talk about political motives for passing that law. I would stick to the conceptal and legal reasons why the political party law is being passed today, because in earlier discussions, there was talk about it. This is the only time I'm going to bring up seven of those reasons. First, an earlier law was passed in 1990. I was also a national MP in this assembly at the time, and I remember when the Law on Political Organisations was passed in Serbia. I am pleased that we have had the opportunity to hear here that this law has endured a check of political practice and that there are good solutions in it as well. It has led to the development of a multi-party system in Serbia and the formation of so many political parties. At this point, the law has been overcome in a certain way, as political opportunities have changed, social conditions, political circumstances in which the law has been implemented. And sociologists, and politicians and everyone else knows that new social relations have to be governed by new legal norms. Of course, there have been major changes in social relations, and here's a new law on political parties. Secondly, on some issues, an earlier federal law on social organisations and associations of citizens has been applied to the political organisation of society. In Serbia's legal system, we had a kind of legal nonsens to apply the law of a non-existent state to legal relations in one country. That was probably our specialty. Of course, that's also one of the important reasons why the new law is passed. Under three, a new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted. There is a need for existing regulation in all areas, including in this area, to coordinate and regulate by respecting these constitutional norms and constitutional principles. That's perfectly understandable and normal. Fourthly, during these 18-19 years, certain specific regulations have been passed that regulate issues that are tangling and political parties' position, so that certain changes in the law need to be made in this sense and bring it into line with the new legal solution. Fifthly, some relations, as could be heard, could not be regulated at all, so there is a obligation and a need for these legal gaps in this area to be governed by a new law. Sixthly, it is necessary to harmonise our national legislation with European principles and standards in this area, which through this law appears. Finally, in this period, there was further democratisation of social relations and strengthening the position of citizens in our society, and this reality should have been expressed through the new law on political organisations. You can, of course, talk about other reasons, you can talk about political motives, but I've stuck to concept and legal reasons. I think it's very good that the Serbian Parliament has political party law on the agenda. If we have determined the need to establish and organise political life in Serbia in a different way, respect the position of citizens, then with several arguments, and with several key arguments, I would like to talk about why this is a good and modern law, of course, while respecting the fact that details can be discussed and that some legal-technical formulations can be reacted to, as the minister also spoke. First, in my opinion, the law is not restrictive, it is not rigid, it does not stifle, nor restricts any of the rights established by the citizens or any right of the former constitution. I think it provides the greatest opportunities for the political organisation of citizens in line with their political goals and political motives. Secondly, I think the law abandons the poor practice of atomising our social and political space, where it was possible for 100 citizens to educate a political party. At that time, it was believed to be evidence of the highest level, the peak of democratic rights, the peak of democracy if the possibility of the smallest number of citizens being able to organise a political party. On the contrary, I think that today we can talk about the evidence that the political and democratic maturity of a society is precisely an increase in this number of people who can organise a political party. I'm personally very close to the idea of being 10,000 citizens. I think that this atomisation of the political scene of Serbia would be relativised and in such a way we enter the stage that we can characterise ourselves as a democratic society that reaches these most democratic standards in this regard. Third, the law gives, in my opinion, a correct definition of the political party. It is constitutional, but it is theoretically justified, and there are as many as 94 different definitions of political parties. Whoever deals with these issues, he could see it. This is a definition that is at the level of constitutional principles. I think the way the political party is defined in the draft law should right now allow the political objectives of citizens to be achieved. It's a form of political will and it's a part of the election. Political parties, if we want to be honest, exist to go to elections and achieve election results. Meanwhile, political life is through different forms, not just through political parties. Fourthly, restrictions on working or banning the work of political parties are almost identical to the former constitution, or they may be entirely identical. It only comes down to three cases. I think that's normal. I must remind myself of what it is: firstly, the political party's action cannot be directed at the violent destruction of the constitutional order (that is to say) and the violation of the territorial integrity of one society and one state. That's the goal. This is one of the fundamental elements of the existence of a country -- to preserve territorial integrity. Secondly, guaranteed human and minority rights must not be violated. Of course, and that's understood. Third, national, religious and racial hatred must not be challenged and encouraged. That's quite understandable. Beyond that, there are no restrictions, no bans. Fifth, the law provides a normative and legal framework for the organisation of a political party: a founding assembly, a founding act, a statute, a programme, statements by those forming a party. It is normal to give on a legal basis the possibility of organising a political party. This is not what the statute, the programme, the founding act, will be, which will be dealt with by the political party. These are normal elements of the organization of any system, whether it's small or large. So, the political party, if it claims to be a political party, must have all this. If we are saying that both associations of citizens and social organisations who are voluntarily educated, with far fewer citizens, should have all of this, why not have a political party and why it would not be one uniform way of looking at it. Sixthly, political parties are educated exclusively on a territorial basis under this law. Those who remember when the 1990s discussed the formation of political parties know that there were ideas about forming political parties and on an arbitrary principle, which would have major negative consequences. So this is an appropriate solution, normal and logical. You can talk inside about these details that were spoken of, but the basic principle has to be that. Seven, the registration of political parties is on the principle of application, not approval, not certain other restrictions, to allow or not. The application, unless there is a reaction, is the silence of the administration, the party is formed; therefore, the most liberal conditions for the formation of a political party. Some other details can be discussed, even bigger issues can be discussed. Personally, I'd like to ask the minister to consider very well the proposal that I think he gave to me last night, Mr. Shami. I saw it on TV because I wasn't here for college duties. I think the idea is close to me, that registered political parties do not need for any elections, from local to presidential, to re-collect signatures to support their candidates. No matter what comes from the opposition party, I think you should seriously consider it. I think that approach should be accepted. Of course, you can speak, as I have said, of some other clarifications, improvements to this law, but for these conceptal, legal reasons and certain solutions that have been defined as defined in this bill, I would like to point out that the SPS-JS parliamentary group will support this law and vote for it. It would be even better to include some elements of some amendments, to make it even better. I have the impression that the minister with great respect is approaching the analysis of all these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17174	Mr. Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17175	Thank you, my fellow Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, an extremely important law is on the agenda of the Assembly. Yesterday, our authorised representative spoke, and we asked why we are not fully discussing this matter, why we are not discussing in the package the law on elections, the law on the financing of political parties and the law on political parties, because it is the only way we can fully discuss the matter of this extremely important area. We've heard a lot of details from you today. It's obvious that both laws are at some stage in your ministry, but only when we know all the solutions and all the individual details can we come to terms with it. What are the basic reasons for this important law? You stated that, above all, it is a stabilisation of the political scene, which will be achieved through a reduction in the number of political parties. We didn't even know how many parties went into parliament until you told us you had a record of 20 parties getting funds from the budget. How many parties really exist on the ground, and they function outside this House? Most likely, in those six months, when this law is passed, of these 600 parties, as much as you say exist in the register, all maybe five percent will be registered, most likely 570 will no longer exist. The Finance Committee, which until the establishment and adoption of the agency law controlled funding, could not contact the largest number, nearly two-thirds of those parties, which means that they were not actually on the ground. How can the situation be regulated on a political scene if we delete from the register parties that otherwise do not exist? Do the parties organise political life through various registers in which they are formally registered or are they parties that have a foothold on the ground? You're saying we don't know it from the law again because we haven't had a chance to see what the ideas for party financing law are, we haven't seen what these ideas are about election law, but you're saying that some solutions will be adopted when there's an optimal number of parties. That's what I found in your statement on the government website. What is the optimal number of parties? Who's going to determine that optimal number of parties, any independent bodies, any agencies? One of the colleagues cited Britain as an example of a stable political system. It's been said to be a two-party system. Do you know how many parties participate in the UK elections? Do you know how many states are registered in the UK? The record was made at the end of the 1990s, 157 parties participated in one election in the UK. There were various parties. For example, the two parties were very ambitious in these elections, unfortunately, did not produce a result. One party was called "The Barbecue Lover Party", and the other was called "The Healthy Mind Party Against Political Parties". Well, when taken as an example of the Great Britain system, then some of these things should be considered. So much for organized systems and organized democracies. Next, you told us that the system at the bar wasn't good enough because the parties had these mandates. That's what citizens should do. The basic question is, then, who is represented by the MP, is the MP representing his party or representing the citizens who elected him, and in what way does this and these laws strategically answer, do they even consider one such question? Can the party then represent the interests of all citizens or represent certain groups that have chosen the party? How does the matter of this law regulate one such question at all? Essentially, on the basis of what you just said, is it then the state's interest to strengthen parties, because strengthening parties means weakening parliament and the parliamentary system? It's the only thing that can be done as a conclusion from one of these. It's obvious that this law, instead of giving answers, is actually giving birth to a lot of new questions, without clear answers. There's been a lot of talk about a lot of details about this law. This is what my colleagues will discuss in the follow-up to this debate in principle and in the discussion of details. A few colleagues spoke, and you also touched the idea of registering territorial units. It's a non-binding form, the parties are only obliged to provide you with records of their territorial organisational units. I don't see anything that can be controversial. Our party, the DSS, has organisational units in all municipalities and we'll deliver it to you, but there are two institutes, there's an institute of records and there's an institute of consent. The record and what your ministry is going to do in the future will certainly require some new jobs and some new employees to do these things. What can we really do about it? Let me give you an example. The government of the Republic of Serbia agrees on the programmes of all public enterprises. Consensus is a much more serious form than the record. Consensus implies a detailed examination of the material, which ultimately puts the vote at the cabinet's session. Public companies' programmes are being agreed at the government's session. These programmes have basic policies, income projections, expenditure and everything else. Why, then, is the problem that the government cannot determine what the salaries of the directors of public enterprises are if the government agreed on these programmes? I don't get it. If the Government cannot, on the basis of the programme on which it has given its consent, determine what the salaries of the directors of public enterprises and the compensation of the boards of directors are, then what will the Government or what will do with a record which is a much looser form of consent? You'll agree there's plenty of room to think about. We have proposed several extremely important amendments. We expect that during the follow-up of this debate, you will come forward. I say once again, to underline, it is quite clear that such an individual law, drawn from a set of laws that regulates all matter, to MPs who should vote for it, cannot create a clear picture of an extremely important area. You probably have that picture, but we haven't seen it, and until the law is passed, the MPs can't have that picture, and the law that only gives birth to questions and doesn't answer will certainly not solve the problems that exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17176	Thank you, Mr. Beard. Mr. Simo Vukovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17177	Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to join the predecessors in thinking that maybe we should have put this law into debate together with the laws governing the financing of political parties and elections. The law on political parties is one of the essential legal projects for the functioning of a democratic, multilateral system. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has guaranteed the role of political parties in democratically forming the will of citizens, who bear sovereignty. This law is closer to determining, too, a constitutionally guaranteed framework for the freedom of association of citizens, as well as adequate restrictions that protect the freedom and rights of other citizens. One of the reasons for the previous bile debate on the meaning of this law is probably historical and today's context in which political parties, i.e. parliamentaryism in Serbia, function. When we look backwards, of course without an ambition to overhear from history, but when we add up periods where political parties and even parliamentaryism in Serbia function freely, this period, with all its efforts, is no longer than 40 years, which makes up only a fifth of Serbia's modern statehood. Even the promoter stated in an explanation of the law itself that the first parties were created in 1881. But very soon after that, even in the days of King Milan, there was a choking of political freedoms, so even in that period until 1903, we cannot talk about some legal framework for the functioning of political parties. Of course, the period between the two wars was more marked by Obnad, the State Protection Act and the Six-Jannular dictatorship, than by some political life, which woke up in 1936 when we had the first free and democratic elections. About the period after 1945, I think there are a lot of contemporaries here, too much talk. We had a one-party system, where in the minds of the citizens practically built a negative opinion on the multiparty system. When we talk about today's or closer to the historical context in which we are, it is given constitutional solutions that came in 1990 and that have prescribed a pluralist democratic system. However, it is accompanied by a permanent inflation of the value of the multi-party system itself, including the parties themselves, in the minds of the citizens. In addition to the circumstances dictated by the authoritarian regime of the 1990s, this has been contributed by a vague, confusing legal framework for the establishment and operation of political parties. I am so much more surprised by today's 1990 affirmation of the law, given that the good part of us sitting here has a pretty negative experience with the legal solution that was at the republican level, which comes from the SFRY, where you have often met with the silence of the administration and the inability to register your political party. In doing so, the dualism that existed was used, which is a federal law that regulated the association of citizens in the association, and there are the largest number of political parties and NGOs registered at that level. The legal dualism that existed was extended after 2000, even after the adoption of the new Constitution in 2006. This put us in a position to be outside the scope of the relevant acts of the Council of Europe as the widely accepted values of European democratic states, in addition to the non-compliance of the legislation mentioned with the amended related laws in the field of political association. We came into position today, and that's said several times in this plenary session, that we have 600 registered political parties; we have two official records of political organisations run by the same registration authority, as well as a paradoxical situation where we don't actually know the jurisdiction of the state authorities in so-called. Oversight of political parties. This ambience has also brought us different forms of party association, often trivially referred to as vans, "cafan" parties, but a large number of parties presently in the register (it seems to me that one of the predecessors mentioned) was founded in the 1990s by different security services. We can also see them as montypatonic, the names of these organisations, such as "The Peasant Veterinary Party", the political party "None of the answers offered", "Kosovo's objective party", "The People's Computer Party of Serbia", and the like. Of course, such a state of action of the political system has helped to undermine citizens' confidence in a democratic, multi-party system. The interest of all of us, representatives of political parties and citizens in this higher house, is the introduction of a clear and modern legal framework based on the tried-out values of European democracies, which, unfortunately, have adopted such a legal framework before us. In the voting day G17 plus will vote for the adoption of such a law and I want to highlight a number of good solutions and give a few good suggestions to the promoter. First of all, it is good that the concept of the political party and the elements that make it, as well as the concept of the political party, i.e. the party of national minorities, is defined. What's most distracting is an increase in what's called an increase. censorship from 100 to 5,000, which is mostly consistent with some comparative solutions in some European countries. It is interesting that countries in the environment, such as the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Montenegro, which have left a censorship of 200 and 100 full-time citizens for founders, also have a relatively large number of voters and residents. In Croatia it is at this moment 102 and in Montenegro 99. It is also important to point out the introduction of a procedure to verify the signature, raising the degree of reliability and truth when the party is founded and registered. What we would like to draw attention to to the promoter, Minister Markovic, is not present here, is to reconsider whether personal data should be published by the party's founder, in order to protect the privacy and integrity of citizens who want to participate in the party's process. It was also taken into account that essential, positive discrimination was being made regarding the political parties of national minorities. We consider 500 founders appropriate and demographics of national minorities in Serbia and the current deployment of political forces. The ultimate effect of this institute should be the introduction of order in the record and registration of political parties and, more importantly, openness in the process of registering itself and keeping records of political parties. The necessary openness of the basic information on the party prescribed by this proposal will enable the public and the competent authorities to have better insight into the possible non-compliance of acts in political action, particularly in the direction of the Constitution of guaranteed rights and the freedom of citizens. Updating the records and accuracy of the data in the register will certainly contribute to the timely reporting of all relevant facts relating to the representation, i.e. representation of the party and its functioning itself. The keeping of records, as well as its content, as prescribed by this legislative proposal, are very important because of the insight into the possible incompatibility of certain state functions and membership in the party, which may be subject, which has often been in practice, legal and political dispute. A very good solution is the reverse protection of the political party in registering from the so-called so-called. the silences of the administration, unless the competent authority adopts a decision on the entry in the register within the time limit prescribed. That, as I pointed out earlier, was often the case when attempting to register with the republican competent ministry. I would especially like to highlight the introduction of ideas and solutions for the renewal of the register of political parties, as there has been a huge difference in the number of parties that go to the elections compared to the number of registered parties since the first multilateral elections. Given that one of the principles of political parties' action should be participation, I underline this, in democratic and free elections, the question of the purpose and purpose of such legal entities in legal traffic itself is raised. In addition, there are no adequate legal mechanisms for verifying the true functioning and existence of the party. I think the renewal of the registration will be a good periodical filter for all political entities. Finally, I would like to point out that the bill clearly defines the conditions for the termination and banning of the political party's work. This builds a secure mechanism to protect against any co-explanatory interpretations of the competent authority in such disputes. Finally, and the Constitutional Court is clearly defined as the authority responsible for the ban on political parties' work. Seeking to contribute to strengthening citizens' confidence in democratic institutions and actors of the multilateral parliamentary system, G 17 plus will vote in favour of such a legislative proposal. I must say, we have no fear that this is about denying the rights of citizens or political freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17178	Thank you, Mr. Vukovic. I give Milan Stanimirovic my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17179	Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr. Chairman, we have before us a bill on political parties. Since the introduction of a multi-party system in Serbia, the people's saying "Two Serbs, three parties" has experienced its full affirmation. Eternal life with Serbs has not been without consequences for representatives of the national communities, so we have the consequence that today we have 442 organizations and 133 in the register of the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government in the former federal registry, which means that it is currently registered in the register of 575 political organisations. That the situation is not only a political scene in Serbia but also similar data on the inflation of political parties in the countries of the former eastern bloc, but also the fact that, for example, more than 500 political parties were founded in Spain after the rule of Frank. In this high home, the example of Great Britain was mentioned as an example of freedom, although there are two large political parties fighting alternately for the shift in power, that there was a large number of parties involved. For the sake of truth, it should be said that in the cradles of democracy, in the UK, in the late 17th century, the Tories and the Wigs appeared. It's that story about English grass, someone says: I did everything they did in England with their grass, and it's not like theirs. Yeah, but they've been doing it for three centuries. They set up a multi-party system with Tories and Wigs in the late 17th century, and we restored the multi-party system in Serbia in the late 20th century. Political parties have since been the most widely defined as voluntary, relatively permanent political organisations, whose aim is to take over or at least participate in the government, or to have a constant influence on it in order to achieve interest within an ideological concept of general state policy and the common interests of society. Although the etimological root of the words of the Latin word pars, party, which means - part, when we consider that the two constituent works of each political organisation are a particular programme and a certain organisational structure, it is clear to each layku that no matter how large a society is divided, one medium, small, rather than a medium European state, such as Serbia, can hardly articulate in a serious way about 500 particular interests depicted in political parties and expressed in 500 programmes and 500 organisational structures. According to that people's "Seed the frogs soaring, and so did they lift their feet", so many political parties in Serbia were formed in the past. The draft law on political parties in Article 2 defines the notion of a political party: "The political party within the meaning of this law is an organisation of citizens of free and voluntary association established to achieve political goals by creating the political will of citizens and participation in the elections. "Right after this article, Article 3 defines the notion of the political party of the national minority: "The political party of the national minority within the meaning of this law is a political party whose main function is aimed at representing and representing the interests of a national minority and protecting and improving the rights of members of the national minority, in accordance with international standards, governed by the founding act, the programme and the statute of the political party. "The Democratic Party has since the introduction of a multi-party system supported the ideas of the natural threshold and the necessity of equal representation of all national minorities in this high home, as well as the need for the formation and existence of national councils, so that the first national councils were formed in 2002, during the government of Zoran Djindjic. However, my deep democratic belief is that they are members of national minorities or national communities, as representatives of political parties that do not belong to the parties of national minorities, to a lesser extent also representatives and representatives of the interests of their national communities. The basis of their legitimacy and legality are, above all, the votes they have received in their environments without giving up their national belongings, but firstly by putting their social democratic, liberal, conservative or similar political commitment, putting civic commitment and civil society as an ideal. As I do not recognise the exclusiveness of the defence of Serbian national and state-owned interests of any party in which Serbs are in the vast majority, I believe that the exclusion of representing and representing the interests of a national minority and the concern of protecting and improving the rights of members of that national minority cannot apply only to the parties of the national communities, but there are also those who have rightly fought the votes of their countrymen in the elections. We are all members of some national community at birth, and political engagement is our personal choice. Regardless of its civil province, the Democratic Party will always advocate the rights of national communities to culture, education, information, official use of the mother tongue and the right to political and any other representation, including the defence of the right to represent the interests of its national communities through membership in political parties that do not have national omens. The basic objectives of the law to replace the two prevailing laws, the 1990 Socialist Republic of Serbia's political organisations, as a republican regulation, and the federal law of the same year that treats the same matter, as a correction of the situation in a register that does not correspond to the real situation, the proposal for a law on political parties will certainly be new, better and more quality regulated. What should follow, which may be a stumbling block, because this is some precondition for it, is the adoption of a new law on the financing of political parties that in a better and better quality way than the existing one would make the field of party financing more transparent, make budget control more effective, enables a more effective fight against corruption, and prevents informal economic power centres in Serbia from, through money, financing political parties, affecting the creation of political life in Serbia. Perhaps the announcement of this law has caused some additional anxiety. I particularly hope that the soon-to-be application of the law on selecting committees so that we can make sure that our representatives in local self-governments are indeed elected by citizens, not by the oligarchs of political parties, and I hope that this will also be a guideline for the election of MPs. As far as art is concerned. The 8th and 9th laws, according to which the party can establish 5,000 full-time and business-qualified citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the national minority party of 500 citizens, I have seen from previous discussions that there is a tendency to accept the amendments to increase this number to 10,000, or 1,000 for representatives of the parties of the national communities. I consider this amendment acceptable, although I personally think this number should have been increased to the level of the natural threshold, about 15,000 citizens, and for the parties of the national minority 10% of the natural threshold by one parliamentary post, which is about 1,500 signatures of the founders. The status of a political entity in this way would be entirely relevant. In a pre-political society like Serbia still is, in which because of the lack of consensus, transition becomes a permanent patient state, politics, unfortunately, has polluted many citizens as an act of action. Some of the pawns we heard today, that it should be possible to form a party of butterfly lovers or a flute player, will certainly not contribute to the seriousness of the political scene in Serbia. Should it be recalled that some "party" have collected 10,000 signatures for their presidential candidates, received 6,000-7,000 votes in the election, then "jointed to the vein" some larger parties or coalitions and so draw budgets, and that we all know what their actual capacity is, and that a large number of parties in the total mass of votes, not exceeding the censorship, gave their votes also, according to Dont's system, to those who took the highest percentage. As for the reaction to the situation where a political party does not adhere to its own programme, I think that any criminal measures could only apply to possible action against the Constitution and the law of this country, and that for other programming tasks, objectives and their possible failure, each party will first and foremost respond to its membership and voters. By listening to some of today's discussions, I begin to doubt this saying that the greatest revolutionaries of youth are the greatest conservatives of old, because their commitment to total deregulation before it resembles anarchism. The stability of the political scene greatly conditions the possibility of creating a strong and stable Serbia. I think this law is a step forward towards establishing this stability. There was a lot of passion in challenging this law, and passion is a bad ally in politics, if it's not about the passion for general good, responsibility and prudence, as top political principles. Freedom is not anarchy, and anarchy creates a mess that is ideal for all who are interested in preserving the existing state. The Law on Political Parties introduces order in this area and allows political parties in the public eye to gain the seriousness that is in their position, reputation, influence in public life and follows. That is why DS MPs within the ZES parliamentary group will support the law on political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17180	Thank you. The word has Dr. Zarko Korac. The remaining time of the LDP parliamentary group is one minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17181	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear People's MPs, many big words have fallen here and on responsibility, and on anarchy, on democracy. It would be best to look at the Constitution of this country and see that one of the guaranteed fundamental rights is the right to political organisation. You're seriously limiting this right today. Even what MP Obradovic told you, which stated that in England itself you have parties that you make fun of here, is the price paid in democracy. It's a price for people to be free to organize themselves politically. There's no one who can forbid it to people. This law will be passed, that's clear to me. I guarantee they'll be replaced one day and people won't think too well about when the big party cartels started to stop people from being politically organized. If you want something on political theory, there's a cartel of political parties who don't like competition. You're here to prevent people who want to deal with politics, to start a political party, to do so. You put very strong and high criteria, both monetary and organisational, which essentially most countries do not have. I'm warning you one more time that's bad. I'm finishing up, since I don't have much time, I'm going to give you an example that you'll probably find interesting. The German Constitutional Court, eight or nine years ago, can find someone, has decided that all parties that have 1% in the elections receive budget assistance, even if they have not entered parliament. Do you know why? Because they're going with the logic that we're defending, that there's a nuclearus of some future party, a political idea that needs to be helped by the state for the sake of democracy and pluralism. In Slovenia, by the way, that percentage is half a percent. (President: I thank you. ) So you don't even have to enter parliament, and you get some resources to stimulate a political idea. You're doing something the other way around today, you're actually creating a huge obstacle to people who are eager for political engagement. That's why our reactions are like this, because today you're passing a law, I'm not saying that some in this room want it, which strikes on the basis of fragile democracy in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17182	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. The remaining time of the SPS-JS parliamentary group is five minutes and 20 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17183	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the adoption of a law on political parties is only a second step, a big step, in regulating the freedom of political organisation in Serbia. The first step was in 1990, when a multi-party was introduced. Regardless of all the objections that exist, it's always the greatest step. The Socialist Party of Serbia then exercised power. I am glad that now, as a member of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I am also taking part in this second step, the adoption of a law on political parties, aimed at removing all the shortcomings that occurred in the meantime. The first important detail of the law on political parties is that political organisation has been distinguished from the organisation of associations and social organisations. That was one of the reasons why this law was passed. This is seen in the text of the law, which defines the notion of a political party through three basic elements: freedom of political association, the formation of an electoral will and participation in the elections. We think it's logical and normal. It's about association with the goal of running the state, exercising power, leading the people, and we think it's a good thing. Given the short time that our parliamentary group has at its disposal, and that Col. Mile Ilic spoke very closely about this law, I will only stick to it by observing the law from one angle, which is the establishment, renewal of registration and re-registering, so to speak. When it comes to establishing a political party, it is here that it requires 5,000 certified signatures. The Socialist Party of Serbia has not submitted amendments to this law, but is ready to support it, it considers acceptable, to increase the figure to 10,000. We want to suggest that the government, the Ministry thinks about the following – it is not a problem to determine whether it really is a signator, the problem is the large funds that are being spent. So it's up to the government to find a way that, if it can't be free, it's just minimum costs. The second thing I want to point out is that every party, after eight years, so at least two election cycles, if there is no mandate in the Serbian Parliament, or the province's assembly, is required to renew the enrolment. We think it's logical and good. If that solution existed in the legislation so far, surely there would be no 570 parties today. Third, I ask the question and ask Mr. Minister to reconsider part of the law in the transitional and final provisions that speak of party re-registration. If we adopted the principle that the renewal of enrolment every eight years should be repeated, so we said – unless the party has at least one mandate, I think that principle can also apply to existing parties, which have an obligation to adapt within six months to this new law. For that I have many arguments, these are parties that also have at least one mandate in the previous cycle. So we would have the same principle as when it comes to re-entry. However, when required to reregister the existing party, it is not 5,000 founders, but 5,000 members, but it comes down to the same. Just one example, and I'll finish. It was about parties that participated in a large number of elections, collecting tens of thousands of signatures. I'll just remind you of the latest local elections, for example in Belgrade, 800 and several council members in municipalities and 110 in the City Assembly, that's 1,000, by 30 certified signatures, that's 30,000 certified signatures collected by one party. It costs a lot, but the party went through those checks and had the support for something like that. Of course, we will support this law, but we ask that the need to see once again whether the parties that have mandates should repeat all this, as the party established does.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17184	The word has Professor Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17185	Dear People's MPs, the respected presidency, this is a law that should, together with other laws, regulate an important area, which is the area of Serbia's political system. Serbia's political system, accounting for both its parliamentaryism and government, has not been a well-organised area and has been functioning quite unstable in recent years, including since the introduction of political pluralism since 1990. The arrangements of a party's life is a decisive matter. My predecessor from the party, Mr. Obradovic, made the main remarks of the party, and I will only repeat it now, that, in addition to this law, the law on the financing of parties and the law on elections, which is always passed somehow in the election year, and then that we have this aspect of the political system, in order to go forward with it and try to consolidate this situation in the country. This, in my opinion, is more important than the quick adoption of various prescribed laws that should contribute to our alleged rapid European integration. Nothing better can help one such thing than a stable system in the country, primarily political, legal and economic, of course, but other systems depend on that skeleton of the political system. The party's participation in it is almost decisive. It is simply interesting, as a phenomenon, that Serbia acted within its political pluralism by relying on a law that was passed in 1990, hence the Law on Political Organisations. The law did not even mention parties, not accidentally, because at the time (and the law was passed in May or June 1990) still said "political party", or "political pluralism" based on political parties, were taboo topics for the ruling party, therefore for the Socialist Party of Serbia. I don't think she was yet the Socialist Party of Serbia, but the Union of Communists of Serbia, I think that a few months later she became the Socialist Party of Serbia. So, according to the law, which in some way allowed free political organization, and on the other hand did not want to define it as a party organization, we live until today, in 2009. No wonder such a large number of parties were made under that law. It seems to me that at the time the ruling structures in Serbia, when they had to allow political pluralism, wanted to degrade it and make pluralism into a hyperpulalism, in which they were successful and lasting to this day. So when there are 100, 200 or 300 parties, and I'm not talking about a larger number, and we have a larger number of parties today, then whoever holds the levers of power in his hands can better manipulate, even those parties. You remember very well that the parties broke down like mushrooms and that they were founded by various, very obscenities, organizations and secret services in this country. We still inherit this situation and still inherit that law. It is good to change it today, although we are not doing it right, not in the package, so that this situation should be fully stabilised. And after October 2000, we have a hyperpulalism. The first DOS government had 18 parties, which is extremely unnatural. So one movement was in power. Some elections later saw a decrease in the number of parties in power, to raise some 10-15 parties again. I don't know if anyone can count the number of parties that make up the ruling coalition today. All this is due to this system and it can begin to stabilize through political parties' laws, but, as we have established, it is not enough. So, as far as the law itself is concerned, the Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted a large number of amendments and we will have opportunities to talk about them in particular. This time, I'll only stick to a few general things that regulate a few amendments. So I'm not talking strictly about these members, I'm talking about the phenomenon that these members regulate. First, the very definition of the political party is not clear at all. There's something strange about it, like in 1990, when that Law on Political Organisations was made, so it wasn't meant to be said "party" but "political organisations", and then it was deliberately made that situation that various associations, various groups with 100 signatures could create a party. Now the parties don't define themselves in, so to speak, a specific way. It does not point out in that definition what is most important for political parties. There are several provisions or several parameters under which the party is determined in this law, so it is said that two or three things are important there: that the party participates in the formation of the will of citizens and that it does so through elections. Both these things are not the most specific to the existence and functioning of the political party. For political parties, it is most important that they achieve their goals either by acting in power, of course, by means of authorities, or by acting in opposition. These are two basic things, and I don't know why this definition clearly doesn't say that political parties are organisations that are voluntary, based on free association, political association, which aim to participate in government by means of state authorities or by achieving their objectives by acting in opposition. It's one thing that would have to be explained, to make the concept of this law itself quite clear, as it is necessary. The second thing is the next member to talk about the political parties of national minorities. He introduces one category of a new type of political party. So it's said to be parties that protect their minority interests based on, it's still said, international standards. First of all, the political parties of national minorities are also political parties and should be subject to provisions concerning all political parties, and only to point out, within the framework of these general provisions, what is specific to them. Secondly, it should stand in the position of the second same member to define political parties. Why is there a special member for the political parties of national minorities? There's no need for that. This says what I said at the beginning and what is the biggest remark – it seems to be a particular kind of political party, which should not be. It is understood, as I speak, that the political parties of national minorities should protect their national interests within Serbia as a state, but not only on the basis of international standards of protection, as it says in this law, but also on the basis of our constitutional and legal provisions. You should bear in mind that we have a very model law on the protection of national minorities, brought in back in 2002 or 2003. Serbia has taken it from the former SRJ, but it has done the most in it and we have no reason to be ashamed of it and not to point it out in this position. These are two serious objections to the general character, which are not only biteful by theoretical objections, but concern what the political parties define. Finally, with that conclusion, it has been a hundred years since the first serious books on political parties were written in the early 20th century; two books, almost identical to the name "Sociology of Political Parties", came out in 1906 and 1909, so the books of Mihels and Ostrogorski. It is clear from there that political parties are political organisations aimed at winning power. To this day, it is a standard definition that does not change in the textbook and we should not fear that this correct position in Article 4 will then be compromised so that the political party cannot exercise direct authority. It is understood that it cannot exercise direct power, it is carried out through state authorities and therefore meets one of the conditions of that definition. That's one general remark. When it comes to a number of concrete objections to the provisions, the DSS has them and depends on the discussion and on the quantity of acceptance whether the party will accept this law. I say, it is a great observation of the party that it has not been brought into the package, so that we can resolve this aspect of the stabilisation of the system in a assembly debate, adopting three complementary laws on the regulation of political parties and elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17186	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17187	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my pleasure to speak of the draft law on political parties. Although there are views that this law is not systemic and reformal, I believe it certainly contains these characteristics, as it introduces order into political life in Serbia and regulates the area of social life of which we are all part. The existing laws governing the organisation of citizens, associations and the work of political parties, which were passed more than 15 years ago, have been overcome not only by time but also by their solutions and provisions and their content in itself imposes the need to change and bring them into line with the new Constitution of Serbia, which all together has the inevitable adoption of a new law that will systematically regulate this area. On the other hand, no less important, from the point of view of European integration, it is necessary to harmonize this area with existing international standards. When we analyze the bill before us, I'd look back on a few things. Already in the basic provisions, in addition to the definition of the political party's concept, the concept of the political party of the national minority has been defined, which I consider particularly important because the provisions in the text of the Bills which regulate the rules relating to the parties of the national minorities are in fact positive discrimination measures, which are in line with international standards. The most important newspapers and what was most discussed in the public are legal solutions related to the establishment of parties. At the moment in Serbia, as my colleagues stated during yesterday's and today's discussions, more than 570 political organisations are actively leading. If we look at an analysis of all the elections held in the previous 15 years, it is more than clear that the number of parties participating in the election processes, especially those that later participate in the affairs of the authorities, is several times smaller than the number of registered political parties, resulting in absolute doubt and devising both the importance and seriousness and the essence of political organisation and action. Instead of the planned 100 signatures of full-time citizens so far, it is envisaged that the party can establish at least 5,000, i.e. a party of a national minority of at least 500 full-time and business-qualified citizens of Serbia, which is in line with the constitutional principle that the state guarantees special protection of national minorities. In addition, further steps have been defined in the process of registering and establishing the party itself, starting with the founding assembly and adopting necessary acts, the election of a person authorised to represent the party, certified statements by the founders about the establishment of the party, thereby further eliminating the possibility of abuse, and to enrol in the register headed by the Ministry and obtaining legal personality properties. In order to establish full responsibility and transparency of the work itself, it is prescribed that the party is required to make publicly available, via the Internet, both the founding act, the founder's names, the name of the representatives, and the statutes, the programme and other general acts, if it adopts them. In this regard, I would add that I cannot fully understand the essential reasons which are related to the expressed concern about the availability of public data on the founders of the parties themselves. The bill specifically defines provisions governing the issue of the name of political parties. Although there is broad freedom with regard to the designation, restrictions are required, which we consider important, since the principle of legal certainty states that no identical names or names are allowed to cause confusion of the public, which is because of a large number of currently registered parties something that is a problem for citizens. At the end of the review of the most significant newspapers I would refer to only one of my most significant ones, which is the renewal of the party's registration in the register. One of the reasons for the current situation in Serbia that I was talking about at the beginning, which is an incredible disproportionate in the number of registered and active parties, is certainly the lack of legal mechanisms to determine whether the registered party really works. For this reason, I would also consider the key provisions governing the renewal of the registration, which require the parties to submit an application for renewal every eight years from the date of entry into the register, with which they apply to the order of signature of members at least in the number of members which is originally required for registration, with the exception of the obligation to submit applications relating to the situation where the party's candidate, or the party, receives at least one term of office in the elections for the national, or MPs in the AP assembly. It is precisely the obligation to file an application for the renewal of the registration, i.e. the non-compliance of this obligation, for the first time included as a special basis for deleting the party from the register. The renewal of the party's registration in the register, in addition to introducing order and establishing rules, and order and respect for procedure are the characteristics of democracy, provides active parties with the necessary legitimacy and, most importantly, establishs the paved trust of citizens in the political system. For all of this, DS MPs and the list of ZES will vote in favour of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17188	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Mrs. Milica Radovic. The remaining time of the DSS Parliamentary Group is nine minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS supports the idea of passing a new law on political parties. The current Law on Political Parties was adopted in 1990 and was written in a completely different political and socio-economic arrangement. It has become old for many things and, in the end, is not in line with the 2006 Constitution. That is one of the basic reasons why his change is necessary. The current Law on Political Parties had a clear intention to play, to devise a multi-party system, because it does not literally foresee any formal condition for the establishment of parties. Each of us can invite his friends, neighbors, to collect 100 signatures and start a political party. This all resulted in today's political life, there are around 600 political parties in Serbia's political scene, perhaps 10-20 of which are politically active, and for others no one is ever nothing. I believe that this is the way to unnecessarily bring disorder to the political scene, and it is good that this law is passed. As a party, we have objections and we believe that the parties are not and should not be obliged to report any change relating to the territorial organisation and changes in the municipal committees themselves. The municipal committees are not legal persons. I think the party should be free of such obligations. On the other hand, we think it's a good thing that the number of political party founders is rising from 100, which is still valid. We have submitted an amendment asking for this condition to be sharpened. We're asking for that number of founders to rise to 10,000. We think that in this way we will come up with a real number of existing political parties, which in some ways corresponds to the number of politically active parties on the political scene. On the other hand, this amendment, assuming to be adopted, has provided for another possibility, which is that those parties that have already met one such general condition, collecting 10,000 signatures for the establishment itself, will be released later on to collect signatures for parliamentary and presidential elections. We think it's a unnecessary loss, both time and money, and that this condition is self-sufficient enough for itself. This amendment, in the end, is very meaningful and should be accepted. That would add order to the multiparty system. We'd know exactly how many political parties there are. Most importantly, it would prevent abuses that could potentially exist during the election process. We know that a number of political parties are only running for reasons to finance their pre-election campaigns. I will say that around 5m euros from the previous budget were intended to finance pre-election campaigns, and a million euros were allocated to all parties equally, for all candidates. Fourm euros were allocated to parties in proportion to the number of seats won. If we speak the language of numbers, it means that every party, whether it won one vote or 25% of the vote, received more than 40,000 euros from the budget. You have to admit that this is not a small amount and that many parties see in this precisely the motive for their running. In order to make it even more clear what I'm talking about: in the previous elections, we had 14 parties, more than half of which did not cross the censorship at all, and of those 14 parties 12 got fewer votes than the number of signatures they had to collect to run for the first time. I support the idea of my predecessors who said that it would be much better to discuss this law within a set of laws that would fully regulate this matter, and this meant the law on the financing of political parties. The Democratic Party of Serbia has tabled eight amendments to the bill. I appeal to the Ministry's representative to take them very seriously into consideration, because their goal was to improve the quality of this text of the law. The Ministry's relationship to our amendments will ultimately define our relationship with the text of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17190	Thank you, Mrs. Radovic. Mr. Petar Petrovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17191	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable Madam of the Ministry, since there is no Prime Minister, on behalf of the United Serbia and the MPs' Club of the SPS and the JS, I can say that we will support this bill in principle. I'm sure if any of the amendments that are acceptable to us are accepted, we will also support the law in general. I think it was high time to serious Serbia's political scene and to that end, the ministry's contribution came up with this bill on political parties. Because it is surprising that in Serbia, which has slightly more than 6.5 million voters, there are over 600 registered political parties. There are many political parties that have never been to the republic's elections since their founding, but even local elections, where the presidents of these parties live. We think that the bill provides a good basis for the political party to register 5,000 signatures, but we from the SPS-JS parliamentary club think that if a political party needs 10,000 certified signatures to go to parliamentary elections in the Republic of Serbia, then at least the political organisation, the political party should do to be registered is that there must be 10,000 signatures, or 10,000 founders of the party. To that end, since I know there are amendments that are proposed to be 10,000 signatures for the establishment of a political party, we will support such an amendment because we think it is entirely justified. Also, the number of signatures needed to establish a political party of national minorities should be raised. We think that the number of 500 signatures is small and should be raised to at least 1,000 signatures. I don't think for a national minority who wants to have his own political party it's gonna be a problem to collect 1,000 signatures so she can register the party. What is a bit of a problem with this law, I think it will be possible through this public debate, through amendments to fix itself, is that all five thousand, or ten thousand certified signatures, with the names and last names of people who support the establishment of a party, with their addresses, with their home number, must be placed on the Internet, put on public notice, or that it must be made public on the website of a political organisation. I think it's not good, because if there are already signatures certified by the Ministry of Local Self-Government, it's enough not to have a variety of abuses, not in terms of what is said here -- that there may be attacks and other unwanted situations in relation to people who place their name, last name and signature as support for the establishment of a political organisation, or political party, but it can cause other abuses by various organisations, for various reasons. They use these names and last names, the addresses of people who supported a party, and they've got them out of sight, and then they're sending them all kinds of offers, starting from tourist to all kinds of others. When someone has an address, with a home number, it can cause a variety of abuses. I don't think that it should, at least, be accessible to every citizen in the Republic of Serbia, if it is already present at the Ministry of Local Self-Government, where there is control of whether someone has supported the establishment of a political party by their signature. I think the ministry should reconsider these remarks and meet with many objections and suggestions that have been heard from the debate so that this is not available to every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, not because of secrecy, but because of the protection of those people who have supported the establishment of a party, as well as their families. There's a lot of us. We live in Serbia and someone who has a different opinion or a different political attitude may have a different relationship with someone, whether it is his employee, his friend, friend, etc., if he can read and reach his address, that he is the founder of a political organisation, which he does not deserve some respect and so on... I think it is necessary to preserve in some way how much privacy those who have supported the establishment of a political party and political organisation, given the moment we live in, the situation in Serbia that we are in and everything that follows. We, no matter how much we swear on all this, are still at the beginning of the development of democracy and democratic relations. Also, we from the Unity of Serbia and the MP club SPS - JS have a little eye contact with the fact that any establishment of a territorial organisation, translated, municipal committee, must be reported to the Ministry of Local Self-Government. I think it's too high. If a political party is established, if supported by 5,000, or 10,000 signatures, as we propose, it should be given freedom to the political party to organise itself territorially as it has established its general acts brought into the founding assembly or any other body of the political organisation. I think it should be avoided, because, Mr. Minister, it's too high. As for the renewal of the registration, I think it is a good solution that those political parties that have acquired the right to have MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia do not have to re-enter, or to renew their enrolment with the collection of the signatures of citizens who support the political organisation. Many comments were heard here, especially by members of some political organisations that once meant something in the political sky of Serbia, and today they mean nothing, so they team up with everyone and everyone to survive on the political scene of Serbia and now simply do not want to accept this regulation of Serbia's political scene. I don't think those criticisms are justified, I think they're a product of fear for their future, where they'll be found. All those political parties that are currently representing some relevant political force in Serbia are not afraid, and that tomorrow they should collect both 15,000 and 20,000 signatures to register their political organisation, i.e. to restore the existence of their political party. In any case, Unique Serbia has previously asked for a serious political scene and for those who do not go to elections for years, and for local ones, let alone parliamentary ones, to disappear from the register of registered political parties, not to represent just something that is on paper and does not exist in life. On the other hand, I guess it was clear to all of us who are shorter or longer in politics that there was a difference between groups of citizens who have the right to participate in the elections, whether local or republican, and political parties. Any group of citizens who can collect 10,000 signatures the next day can participate in the republican elections and have their candidates, have their own representatives in this house, but still need something other than 10,000 signatures. Also, at the local level, a group of citizens can also participate in achieving their political or other goals. To conclude, Mr. Minister, as far as the Single Serbia and the SPS-JS MPs' Club are concerned, we will support, as I said, in principle this bill, but I ask you to reconsider the amendments that go towards raising the censorship for the establishment of a political party and that it is the same as it is necessary for the party to participate in the parliamentary elections in the Republic of Serbia, which is, as is known, 10,000 votes. I think it is also necessary to raise the censorship when it comes to national minorities, to seriousise Serbia's political scene, and that national minorities can establish their political organisations, but with 1,000 signatures.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17192	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Michaelo Puric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17193	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Republic MPs, the law on political parties to adopt the Serbian Parliament is also important for the political scene in Serbia. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the political party law is contained in Article 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where the Republic of Serbia is said to regulate and ensure the achievement and protection of the freedom and rights of citizens, as well as in Article 55. The Constitution, which guarantees freedom of political, union and any other association that is not contrary to the law. First of all, I want to point out that the Law on Political Organizations was passed back in 1990. A large number of fellow MPs talked about it, but I think it is important to stress that this has been passed as a republican regulation, and the Law on the Association of Citizens in Associations, Social Organizations and Political Organisations was passed on the same year, but at the federal level. If we start from the fact that these laws stem from a period in which our country characterized a different political and economic order and the fact that those laws were passed 19 years ago, it is clear that a new law on political parties should be passed. If we go from the information we have in the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government that there are currently 555 political organisations in Serbia, 442 in the Register of the Ministry of State Administration, and 133 in the Federal Register, so many political organisations registered in registers in relation to the number of political organisations active in political life through elections in Serbia certainly raises doubts about the importance and essence of political multilateralism and freedom of association. We can rightly say that the main objective of the law on political parties is to make the political scene in Serbia serious and clearly define the rules of political parties' work. This will help all those who want to deal with politics take greater responsibility and risk for this job. The law on political parties clearly defines the concept of a political party, which aims to distinguish the association of citizens from other ways and forms of association of citizens, to the extent that this requires the specificity of this form of association. The law on political parties determines the subject of legal regulation, under which the law regulates the establishment and legal position of political parties and registration and removal from registers, the termination of political parties' work, as well as other issues relevant to the work of political parties. This law defines the political party as a voluntary organisation of citizens to achieve political goals by democratic means and by participating in the elections. More specifically, three basic elements are defined which define political parties, which are: free and voluntary association of citizens, the formation of political will and the participation of political parties in the elections. However, the law, when we talk about free and voluntary association of citizens, in accordance with Article 55(5). The constitution prescribes one restriction concerning membership in a political party, according to which the Constitutional Court, Judges and Public Prosecutors, the Citizens' Protector, members of the police, members of the military, as well as other persons whose function is incompatible with the law with membership in the political party, cannot be members of political parties. As for the way the political party is organised, the generally accepted principle or concept is maintained in a comparative right for political parties to organise and act exclusively on the territorial principle. The law stipulates that the political party starts working to obtain legal personality status, and this right comes on the day of enrolment in the register of political parties. This law also lays down the principles of political parties' work, which are, above all, the principle of public law and the principle of labour law. The Law on Political Parties sets out a significant paper in this section regarding the establishment and instead of 100 so far, the law stipulates that the political party can establish at least 5,000 full-time citizens, although we have heard other proposals. I think that these proposals that other MPs have put forward should meet, that 10,000 business-performing and full-time citizens can support the establishment of political parties. The law provides for another rule -- that the political party is founded on the founding assembly by adopting a founding act, programme, statutes and the election of a person empowered to represent a political party. The law stipulates that the continuation of work will be possible only for those parties who, within six months of the start of the new law, comply with their statutes and other general acts with the law and submit applications for entry into the register of political parties. This is all covered by the draft law in Article 45. I am convinced that the adoption of the law on political parties will introduce order and greater responsibility for all those who want to establish a political party. It is also very important in the registration of parties, under which the political party is obliged to apply for the renewal of registrations with the prescribed certified signatures required for the establishment of a political party every eight years from the date of entry into the register. The adoption of the law on political parties creates an opportunity for a cheaper and more efficient electoral process, as well as better control of the work and business of political organisations. Definitely, this law will seriousise the political scene and reduce the number of political parties. That is why MPs from the Democratic Party will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17194	Thank you, Mr. Turkey. Based on article 85, I'm setting a break for one hour and starting at 15.00 hours. On the list of registered speakers is the first MP, Mr. Jovan Palalic. [[After break – 15:00]] Good afternoon, we're starting the afternoon session. As I said earlier this afternoon, the first speaker is Mr. Jovan Palalic, MP of the DSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17196	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is no doubt that the bill that is before us is governed by an important area, which certainly affects the overall political, I would say social, life. It is good that Minister Markovic is present here today and listens carefully to discussions, primarily MPs of opposition parties. I am taking this opportunity to address one criticism, given that Minister Markovic is in charge of the local self-government portfolio, because he was not on the Committee for Local Self-Government the other day, where one and how important subject, which is at the moment burdening all local self-governments in Serbia, which are the measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are primarily those relating to the reduction of transfer funds, which will also hit a large number of local self-governments and will certainly prevent not only serious investments, but also, in fact, financing the basic competencies of local self-government. Of course, I'm not saying that by accident. The fact is that authorities that have been established on local self-government have been elected by citizens in fact, but after running by political parties. Then we have a very strange situation that all local self-governments in Serbia have condemned these measures by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and local self-government in which representatives of the ruling majority and those governed by representatives of opposition parties rule. On the other hand, we have the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which the same parties are making and which have no hearing about the problems of local self-government. By doing so, it is more confusing for citizens who voted locally, and I remind you that there have been local and parliamentary elections together. I am taking the opportunity to point out to Minister Markovic that the situation, when it comes to funding local self-government, is extremely difficult and dramatic. I appeal that as a resolute minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, the procedure to initiate the 2009 transfer amounting to 15 billion, a drop in the sea of the total budget deficit that the government is trying to address, is lifted. In any case, the political parties we are talking about today play an extremely important role in social and political life, especially in modern democracies. It is doubtless that a large number of theories and views on the role of political parties existed in the previous period and can more or less be divided into two groups, which see completely different roles of political parties, their function, their importance, their actual essence. I would say that this is exactly where political parties' roles are shared and what is real political life, including with us in Serbia. A group of theorists said political parties are exclusively companies for the conquest and exploitation of authorities. In this group of theorists was also theorist Michaels, who said that the political parties of organisations in which the iron law of oligarchy and such an iron law of oligarchy were transferred to the very functioning of the government in which the political parties participated. I want to point to the atmosphere currently in Serbia, at least when it comes to the relationship between ruling parties who exercise power towards the opposition and the role of opposition parties in creating critical public opinion, the role of political parties to articulate those interests of citizens who have not found satisfaction in government policy through various measures of public life, the media, the functioning of institutions, and how they ignore it. I have the impression that this very policy and this prominent political party prevails within the ruling coalition, within the ruling parties, that the parties are exclusively companies for the conquest and exploitation of power. This is not good because it creates a bad picture of political parties in citizens, creating a picture that political parties cannot solve accumulated problems. In this situation, one political apathy is created and citizens going into abstinence from political life, to a large extent and participation in the elections. Certainly, such an atmosphere, with the absence of a desire for dialogue by ruling parties with an opposition that represents critical views (in particular, in this case about government measures relating to the resolution of the economic crisis, but also about the government's state policy), speaks of the desire to rule, to exploit power, in fear of competition, is something that now dominates. As far as the proposed law is concerned, the DSS has several objections, which we would like to point out to Mr. Markovic. Of course, the understanding of these remarks through the discussion in particular will depend, in the extreme line, and some official position of the DSS on this law. The first principled remark tabled by DSS representatives in the morning debate is the fact that the law does not cover the area of financing of political parties, which causes the most controversy in the public. Certainly, with various experts, experts and citizens themselves, this kind of undefined position of funding political parties creates a picture of parties as companies for the conquest and exploitation of governments, societies that are corrupt, which are vulnerable to corruption. I'm sure he doesn't make a good picture. Key remarks on the issue of the law concern overarching powers of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government when it comes to the area. I shall mention Article 17 relating to organisational units by territorial principle and which one regulates the issue. It is indeed quite unclear why it is necessary for the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government to have records of changes within the territorial organisation of local self-government. I think the amendments to the statutes, which the party can make in terms of the different position of its territorial organisation, would be delivered to the competent ministry i.e. A register, quite enough, without burdening political parties. It's completely unclear what reason it is, what that information means to the Ministry. When it comes to any change in the territorial organisation, in some municipal committee, in the city committee, it is of no benefit, nor of any practical importance only the ministry and the register itself cannot have. I believe this section should be resolved by accepting the amendment of the DSS parliamentary group. We have always said that the political scene should be serious, precisely for these reasons that I spoke about in the introduction, how citizens perceive political parties as serious political entities that articulate interests, which create a critical public, which direct political life. It will be serious that only the establishment and registration of political parties will be defined by supporting a larger number of citizens. In this regard, we have submitted an amendment that the establishment and registration of political parties requires 10,000 certified citizens' signatures. Of course, we consider that discussed in the afternoon debate, that it's not good to be public in that way that the Ministry... We're trying to understand, when it comes to territorial organisation and the publication of the party founders' website, what he said, what is the motive of the ministry to have that information, unless he wants to deal with the data of people who are the founders of individual opposition parties and actively participate in some level of political life, from local self-government, local committees, and that there are possible pressures on these people. I otherwise cannot understand this motive. The question that is also interesting is – why has the Ministry taken on such a great responsibility when it comes to supervision? I think that this kind of surveillance reminds us of some earlier times when freedom of political organisation was stifled, and I don't think that part is necessary in Article 40. In any case, the DSS finds it necessary to pass this law, but we will bring the final court when the discussion of the details takes place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17197	Thank you. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17198	Thank you. I think there have been three major objections in this debate. One remark is simply impossible to remove, which is that some other laws go along with this law. I hope you understand that, first of all, given that some of these laws that are mentioned are not in the works of our ministry. I don't argue that you're right when you say it would be a good thing if we had that set of laws as soon as possible, and I'm going to make an effort, in that area where it comes from my jurisdiction, to appear before the MPs with those other laws. I remind you that certain laws are already in the public debate and I call you to participate, and you will receive written formal notice of all this. The first question is a matter of censorship for the establishment of a political party. We predicted 500 for national minority clients, 5,000 for other parties. A long time ago, at least as far as I remember, there was not so much consensus by the government and the opposition, practically all MP groups, except for LDP, that one such idea was implemented into action, to go with an increase in censorship. We've proposed 5,000, and practically all the parliamentary groups have asked for 10,000, and I think that's the first remark. I want to say that the Ministry, that I am as a minister, is completely open to discussing this, that we should reconsider this amendment and that remark. The second remark is names on the site. I'm sorry that our proposal is causing so much confusion. As far as I know, there is an amendment in that direction, and I think we can reconsider that second remark and make a decision that would satisfy most of the MPs in the National Assembly. The third remark concerns Article 17 and the question of a territorial organisation. The reason that this was found in the text is some of the disputes that were happening in practice. I will remind you of the dispute that has been held in my time around the Socialist Party of Serbia and about which person is authorised to represent; I think it is well known from earlier times, when it was – Mr Branislav Ivkovic or Mr Ivica Dacic. However, if this is causing such dilemmas, and in the hope that our political scene will generally be more peaceful in the future, I am ready to talk about that third remark. I think these are the three objections that have occurred so far. I'm glad to see that there is no dispute between what is fundamentally in this law and I can now tell you that I hope that we will reach a very broad consensus on these three remarks and that you will then be able to give support to this law without any fences, as well as other parliamentary groups that have been one of these three objections.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17199	The word has a national emissary, Maja Lausevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17200	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on political parties. The subject of the legal arrangement of this law is the establishment and legal position of political parties, registration and erasure from registers, termination of political parties and other issues relevant to the work of political parties. The legal life of political parties begins with the status of a legal person. Legal status is obtained on the day of enrolment in the register of political parties. In addition to the need for a legal framework in this area is the fact that we actually have two registers to register political parties, and this is an unsustainable situation, so I think this proposal is extremely good. Instead of, as so far, 100 full-time citizens needed to establish a political organisation, it is proposed that the political party can establish 5,000 full-time and business-qualified citizens. In particular, I would refer to two members of the bill, which I would point out as extremely good and compatible with the legal order and the positive legislation of our country. It's article 19. Proposal for a law on political parties compatible with the establishment of companies. He declared that the name of a political party cannot be identical to the name of another political organisation that has been registered or duly registered for entry into the register, i.e. which has been deleted from the register, provided that it has not been more than four years since the registration date, i.e. one that causes confusion in the public or hurts the moral feelings of citizens, which is the law enforcement. The second solution that I think is very good is the process of enrolling in the register of political parties. In particular, I would refer to article 26. The bill, which says the ministry is obliged to adopt a solution to the entry of a political party into the register within 30 days of the date of submission of an orderly application for registration. The decision taken by the minister is final and can be fought against by administrative dispute. This solution is compatible, in fact, with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and two ways to obtain protection: as the silence of the administration, on the other hand a administrative dispute can be initiated. What I think is most important, and what is good, is highlighted in Article 26 paragraph 4 – if the Ministry does not reach a solution within 30 days of the entry of the political party in the register or rejects the application (which is decimated by the Bill) for the entry of the political party in the register, the political party shall be deemed to be registered in the register the following day from the date of expiry of this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17201	Thank you. The word is Miss Natasa Vuchkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17202	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it is obvious that the debate we are having on this law is of interest to the largest number of parliamentary groups, because this is an essential issue for the functioning of both political parties and democracy in Serbia. The question has been raised whether the adoption of this law is necessary and whether we may not have some obstacle to work at these times of crisis. I would say that the functioning of democracy is always one of the key issues for each country and the fact is that we have been preparing one law for a long time so that we can discuss it in parliament. This law should be passed for reasons why political parties operate under two old laws, one republican and one federal. They use old terminology, come from an old regime, and it is certain that we need to bring the new law in line with both the new Constitution and the conventions that we have ratified in the meantime. The question has been raised whether this law creates one restrictions on freedom of political association. Of course, it is a question that depends on the position of each political party on which a number of founders will not be limited. It is certain that a certain number of founders are needed. How much he will be, we can't bid if it's 100, 1,000, 5,000, 10,000, we see that the opposition parliamentary groups have also submitted an amendment to increase the number of founders to 10,000. I am sorry that the LDP parliamentary group has not submitted amendments. I listened carefully to their discussion today, and it is certain that some of their remarks would be adopted. It seems to me that one of the objections concerning the possibility of registering a local party, therefore, the parties on a local principle, was in some way possible to install into this law and I am sorry that in that sense some proposal on their part did not take place. In any case, the adoption of a law on political parties is always an opportunity, in addition to considering the concrete solutions that the law provides for, to consider how pluralism works for our country and whether we are citizens and as representatives of citizens satisfied with its functioning. There are two provisions in this bill that seem crucial to me to consider in order to see how they reflect, or design in some political and social reality. One question is what is a political party, that it is an organisation that forms the political will, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that the political party cannot subjugate itself, nor do it directly. How do these two provisions be designed in our reality, how do our citizens experience them? We have one remainder of the authoritarian culture or, rather, an authoritarian tradition that goes after the team, which creates one atmosphere that every evil in this country comes from political parties, from pluralism, in one word - from democracy. It's something that makes citizens feel that in fact every kind of political engagement is something that's negative, something that doesn't bring any benefit, something that creates apathy and complete lack of interest. This is a very important issue when we talk about the right to political association, because otherwise any debate on this right to political association would be completely artistic if, on the other hand, as politicians and as national representatives, we do not care whether we are able to properly animate citizens to participate in public life, to participate in political debates, in the decision-making process, because this is the measure of the success of every pluralist society. In that sense, I think we need a lot more as political parties and as politicians individuals to work on it. The Democratic Party, in any case, taking into account its tradition and experience that has passed through a long opposition period, has no intention of going after restrictions on the right to freedom of political association because it wants to find the best solutions. We might be welcome in this debate if we had some comparative solutions, to see how the same issue was regulated in some other countries around us, but in any case, I believe that through the debate on amendments we will be able to come up with the best solutions. Another provision that also prompted the debate is the question that the political party cannot subdue itself to power, or that it cannot do it directly. Of course, this is a very general issue and it is understood as such that the political party participates in the elections, and therefore participates in the exercise of power, but when you talk to citizens, you will see that a large number of citizens actually believe that the political parties in our country have an unfounded very big influence, much greater than they would need. Whether it was founded or not depends on the case to the case, but the fact that there is one, I would say, scale between how political parties and institutions act. So we have a situation that because of the weaknesses of our institutions sometimes political parties act, like those who participate in the formation of the government itself, with far more influence than it might be. So, the development of institutions is, that's what I'm saying, something that will certainly make that balance in the period ahead of us. It takes time to create one culture of each institution. We see how much effort we need to make in parliament some cuts that would lead to better functioning and more democratic and efficient procedures. So once again, I would like to point out that this law does not in any way question the restrictions of the right to political decision-making, we would say, order in one area and compliance with existing laws. In that sense, I believe that the adoption of this law is necessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17203	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17204	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I would like to say that the MEP Group of ZES will support this law, first of all because the law is good. During the afternoon debate, we had a dialogue between Mr. Minister and the LDP Parliamentary Group, where the minister practically removed any suspicion of good intentions to pass this law by clear arguments. When we talk about the reasons why a new law should be passed, it is the fact that this matter, therefore, matter of the formation and functioning of political parties, regulates the rules that occurred in 1990, so almost 20 years ago, and that such regulations do not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore it is necessary to pass a new law and bring order into political life. I will refer to two of the most significant remarks made in today's debate. They refer to re-registering political parties and whether the founders' names should be on the Internet, so whether citizens should be introduced via the Internet to who are the founders of certain political parties. I believe that re-registration is very good for the simple reason that every eight years it determines whether some political parties really have the support of a number of citizens and whether they can and should continue their political action, because, in fact, the purpose of a political organisation is to participate in the political life of a country and to influence the creation of Serbia's political consciousness. Therefore, I do not see that there is any problem in every eight years to examine whether certain political organisations, political parties meet the legal requirements for their political action. On the other hand, I think it is very important that citizens know who are the founders of political parties, so who are the people who are seeking a vote in the elections, ask citizens to support their policy and thus determine, practically, the lives of Serbian citizens. At first, I said the law was good. I said that the DS would support this law, but I want to point out another fact, it seems to me that my colleagues did not refer to it, which is that this law indicates, or says who can't be a member of the political party, which I also think is very important – these are the holders of judicial functions, they are members of the military and the police, so they are the actions, i.e. the bearers of those functions that actually don't need to take part in political life. So, once again, I think the law is good, and that is why the Democratic Party will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17205	Thank you. I give the word to the Vice-President of the National Assembly, MP Gordani Komic, noting that there is 58 minutes left for the Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17206	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the state of affairs regarding the organisation, registration and work of political parties in Serbia may be the most picturesque, slightly cartoonal, describing one conversation I had with representatives of European political parties, whose reaction to our information that there were over 500 registered parties in Serbia -- for God's sake, how did you find all of them different names? It is the first paradox you see very clearly only when you talk to someone who has lived in the space of political and economic freedoms for decades or decades. Another paradox related to the work of political parties in Serbia is that all the voters of all our parties are older than the time of our parties, again with few cynicisms – we have underage political parties with adult voters. In a society where there is a tradition of economic and political freedom, it is not a problem to organise a party that exists for two or three years, because it enters miles where there is a culture of dialogue and culture of organisation and respect for rules and order, and awareness of what is the general interest in which political parties participate as social actors. If you have a masculine party, then you have a context problem, which you have to take care of, so, how with so little experience, with so little knowledge, unfortunately, and with too little skill, and not wanting to respect order in organization, we will succeed in defining the general interest. The reason for the existence of parties is that people, human beings, human societies do not have the ability to spontaneously define and organise general interest. This is simply not what people have, unlike ants, bees or others who live in communities, who have an evolutionary awareness of what the general interest is. People don't. In people of general interest, someone needs to define, someone needs to tell us what our goal is for all of us to happen in our small local community and in the wider community. I'm going to give you the simplest proof that this theory is correct, evidence that we all know is pollution and destruction of the environment during the 20th century. So how stupid do you have to be to destroy, to pollute water, air and earth, the resources that allow you to live? After we saw that we had done the damage, we began to discuss a regulation that would fix and protect the further environment. It is the third paradox that is related to the political parties in our country, which is not clearly clear enough for our own voters, the general public, and the professional public, shows that we are able to define the general interest. The fourth paradox is the context in which we adopt a law that we want to reregister, we want to introduce order in the sphere of political parties. Why is it a paradox? Because it's modern with us, "in," if you want to say something positive about yourself, to say "I'm not a member of any political party". If you do it by radio and television, you usually welcome everyone in the studio. It is not normal to define positively that I am not a member of any political party. In particular, it is not normal for there to be widespread public opinion where it is popular to disgust political parties or with contempt to talk about people who want to organise themselves into political parties because they want to learn how to define the general interest and want to do so in a regulated system. The problem with perception of us who want to actively engage in political parties is that we have a negative perception and that is generally thought to be corrupt, that we are thieves, that we are all the same, tows, tows, tows and anything else that binds to anyone who wants to be organized into political parties. In doing so, it is a paradox, all those who talk about politically organised people have no one but us – to define the general interest, to compete in the political market for the right to participate in public affairs in institutions where a general interest could be achieved through dialogue. The victims of this negative attitude, the negative prejudices on political parties as such are institutions, this institution where we sit, which most people living in Serbia think of worse and worse. The responsibility for this is borne by us who are in the institution, because not clearly enough people who look at us see that we care about their concerns, their problems, and that we want to solve their problems, but see us who are more often dealing with each other and the fact that we will not establish order, and that we are asking others to put that order in place. Equality of regulation and reality in Serbia is the chance of this technical law. More or less, it has a technical standard, technical provisions that should make it possible to be the order in registering political parties, to be the order in who the founder is, to be the order in which and how the party's programme offers both in registration and in election campaigns. All this together cannot make us behave properly and gain knowledge and experience in order to truly justify the existence of political parties, which is that in a political market, in a political game, not through conflicts and through a complete lack of dialogue, but through dialogue, in a way appropriate to those we want to look like in the EU, we define the general interest. Fully convinced of the ability and will of all those in Serbia who want to work in political parties and fully convinced that we will change this law, I want to give support to the minister who introduced this law and to really remind myself that the Ministry of Finance is obliged to introduce another law into the National Assembly, a law on the financing of political parties, in order to make it clear – who is in political parties, why, how it makes decisions and who pays us and how much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17207	Before I give my word to Mr. Constantine Samofalov, just to apologize for the lapus, the parliamentary group is "For Europe's Serbia". Mr. Konstantin Samofalov has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17208	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Chairman, this law on political parties, proposed by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, is being amended by two existing laws that were passed at the time of the SFRY, the Law on political organisations and the Law on the Association of Citizens, political and social organisations, which are truly overcome. Given the fact that it has been mentioned several times here, that there are around 600 political parties in Serbia today and that the issue of their seriousness and political scene in general is being raised, I think it was really high time to get a modern law. This law first regulates the principles of the organisation of political parties, so the principles of public and legality in work, then, the way of organisation on the territorial principle, also foresees the possibility of restricting freedom of association, and above all, if the activities of political parties are aimed at violent destruction of the constitutional order, then at causing racial, national, religious hatred, discord, impatience. In particular, it is a significant association in wider political alliances in the country and abroad. I would like to remind you that the Democratic Party has in some way broken through the ice on this issue by joining the Socialist International, a large ideological organization that brings together about 160 organizations from around the world, and on the principles of solidarity, freedom, equality, a socially fair society, etc. The law therefore stabilises the political scene in Serbia. I hope that way we get a more serious political scene. What has also been mentioned several times as the main newspaper is the change in the number of founders – instead of 100 unconfirmed signatures, leading to the hyperproduction of political parties, it will now require 5,000 certified signatures by business and adult citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whose names will be available to the public on the internet presentations of these political parties. It also envisions the establishment of political parties of national minorities with 500 signatures, then, the possibility of enrolling in a register of minority communities not only in the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter, but also in the language of the national minority. I find these provisions extremely positive, because Serbia thus confirms that the state that takes care of all its citizens is, in particular, representatives of national minorities. Lately, there has been a lot of talk in Serbia about moving towards a system that exists in developed European and world democracies, where there are three, four, five dominant parties. I would not predict how many parties we will have in our parliament after the next elections, but certainly, after the adoption of this law, their number will be reduced and thus we will begin a process of absolute order. Also, we will also have easier control of the financial business of political parties, but we will also reduce costs for the state and citizens, because we have had a situation for political parties to run for lists, to raise 10,000 signatures for running, and then not get so many votes. The question is where did the funds really go from the budget of the Republic of Serbia? Finally, given the fact that the first political parties in Serbia were created in 1881, and I would like to remind that the Democratic Party is one of the oldest, it was established between the two world wars, I think it is necessary to finally settle this issue. In that sense, I call on the representatives of the other parties to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17209	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the DSS, Dr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17210	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary, I listened very carefully to the presentations yesterday and today. I have to admit, I'm a little less happy today than I was yesterday. Of course, it's naturally the right of Mr. Minister to defend the law, but I'm kind of too suspicious when it's done too bitterly. In fact, excess passion usually means lack of arguments. Maybe with a little less passion, we can talk about this law. That's not why I answered. I'd just like to remind you of two things. One thing is, this isn't exactly... I disagree with Mrs. Comic that this is a technical law, on the contrary. It is, however, formally adopted as all other laws, but belongs to a category of laws that should be passed with as much consensus as possible. Such will also be the law on the financing of political parties, such will be possible, and some newer electoral law. In countries of fragile democracy (unfortunately, I'm afraid we're still looking for democracy and we have to work there for a long time) this kind of law should be passed with as broad a consensus as possible. Of course, the law can be passed with 128 votes by the congregation's majority. We've already passed such laws, more or less important. It's important here to achieve as much consensus as possible. Every wise man will understand this. Secondly, I saw that various political parties proposed that there should be 10,000 signatures instead of 5,000 signatures. And my party suggested it, but my party did not propose it independently of other solutions. Our idea was this: 10,000 signatures, and then we have an open door for all elections, from presidential, parliamentary, rural, local. So, a party registered with 10,000 signatures has to get an open door and doesn't have to collect every time, for every local election to begin with. That was our idea. If there's no solution, then you don't need 5,000, make it 500. It is true that there is a need for certain amendments to the electoral law in that direction. If in this law we give an instructional standard that it is the right of the political party to participate in the elections if it is registered, without any additional conditions, then that instructive norm will have to force whoever adopts the electoral law one day, it will not have to be this ruling majority, it may be another, that such a formulation must adopt and enter into such a law. Of course, I will not continue to explain our amendments on this occasion, nor will I discuss the amendments of other parliamentary groups. I realized from the discussion that there were far too many amendments. I ask the ruling majority, I ask the Government to seriously consider amendments to the MPs and, I say, there will be no narrowness in refusing or accepting these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17211	Thank you. Minister Milan Markovic called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17212	Mr. Shami, you can be sure that we won't be too small, we weren't up for any law that we've defended here, and we defended them as Ministry, I mean, 16 or 18 for these two mandates, which while we were together, which, even now that we're separated, when we're not a coalition. One of the ideas that will follow the reform of our electoral system, along with the change of the electoral system, is the introduction of new institutes and new opportunities. One of the new opportunities, which should certainly be, is to deprive both the state and the citizens and party of unnecessary costs when running. Laws governing the selection of MPs and committees are laws that determine what qualification it is to participate in the electoral process. As far as what you're proposing, which I agree with 100%, 1000% agree, in the end I talked about it a year ago on the first round table on these issues, it's the place in election laws, Mr. Shami. It makes no sense to create a qualified condition for the establishment of a party if there will be no exemption from qualified conditions for participation in the elections. You're absolutely right about that. Do not doubt that the electoral laws of the registered political parties will release qualitative conditions. Make sure that's how it is. I'm sorry you don't want to accept that I can't accept that there's a norm in this law that should be contained by its markings in electoral laws, which speak of the conditions for running. So, in the electoral law, any one, it will certainly stand – so that the list will be declared, etc. It is necessary to support so many voters with its signature, and then a second position – if it is a list of registered political parties, it will be declared by this law if it meets this second condition, but there is no need to collect a number of signatures. So, rest assured, it's one wartime legion, the truth in some way and this law, which will reflect in other laws. As for the other amendments, I said, there are three objections, and none of these remarks are essential, which I'm very glad, because obviously we hit the right thing with the idea. I am ready to sit on the Justice and Administration Committee and talk; these three remarks, namely four, cover almost all the amendments that you have submitted, all the amendments submitted by the SNS and all the amendments submitted by New Serbia. If there are no political obstacles, and I hope there will be no obstacles, there will be no obstacles to the content of this law that you too support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17213	Thank you, Minister. (Zoran Shami: Replica. You have no right to a replica, the minister is not a MP, although we have long seen him on these benches. (Zoran Shami: I have 30 seconds of my time left.) That's fine. Here you go, Mr. Shami, 30 seconds remaining time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17214	I'll have 30 seconds. I'll cut you some slack. However, the DSS remains on its proposal. It's all nice, one day we'll pass the electoral law, but as the right political party, it must be found in this law. I don't know who's going to pass the next law, who's going to be the majority of the assembly then, who's going to be the minister, etc.; that doesn't matter at all. This law must be the right of the political party that it has acquired by being a political party. Such a norm, whether in that text proposed by the Democratic Party of Serbia or possibly by a slightly different text, must stand in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17215	Thank you. Ms. Marina Ragush's advertising injury to the Rules of Procedure. Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17216	Mr. Novakovic, the basis for my report is Article 100. I hope he doesn't get into my time and you'll count me out these ten seconds. Therefore, it is said - the MP has the right to point to a breach in the conduct of the President or of the Chairman, if he considers that it does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at the session of the National Assembly that is under way, and it is immediately after the injury done. During the afternoon session... Otherwise, we are regularly deluded by free jurisprudence, i.e. by very charming and broad interpretations of the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. We have had opportunities from the President of the Assembly these days to hear that MPs cannot reply with a replica to the statements of ministers present. Furthermore, during the afternoon, we heard the interpretation that MPs and how they have the right to reply and enter into an interactive relationship with the minister. Now we hear from you that the MPs and that they do not have the right to reply. I simply think all MPs are confused with the interpretations of the Rules of Procedure. We'd like you to finally make that clear. I think it is precious to enter into such an interactive relationship, because it is to the benefit of citizens who are following this regular session without wasting any time available to the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17217	Thank you. There is no harm to the Rules of Procedure, because I will read out loud to you a member of 101 who says, "If a MP in his presentation at the National Assembly is insultingly expressing himself to a MP from another parliamentary group... "I don't think I need to read any more. He goes on to say -- if offensive expressions refer to the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has on behalf of the parliamentary group the right to reply. In both cases, it is the address of the Assembly by the MP. It is evident that a member of the Government is not a member of the People's Parliament, and for this reason I am interpreting the Rules of Procedure in relation to the replica. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. If you are not satisfied with my explanation, the Assembly will declare your request in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17218	I have no other way of talking to you unless you give me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17220	I really don't understand what attitude we should follow here. I would then like it to be absolutely acceptable and quite clear to tell me – by which rules are the representatives of the Government acting during the regular session of the National Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17221	Also under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, government representatives, at any time when they ask for a word, they get it at the same time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17222	So, the Rules of Procedure also refer to representatives of the Serbian government. That's what I wanted to hear. So we're entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17223	You have no right to a replica. I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. If you are not satisfied with the explanation that I just gave, please tell me, and the Assembly in the voting day will make a statement about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17224	No, I'm not satisfied, because I don't understand the explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17225	Thank you very much. So, in the voting day, the Assembly will declare your objection. Now I give my word to Mr Miroslav Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17226	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the law on political parties is an extremely important law because it introduces order, or at least tries to impose order, on Serbia's political scene (in particular in Serbia's electoral system), which is well ruled by a chaotic state, slightly due to the number of parties currently registered in the register. The very fact that more than 600 parties are registered in the register of associations, social organisations and political organisations, namely 570, since part of the parties has been deleted from the register in the meantime, speaks of the fact that the political party in Serbia could have established anyone who comes to mind, with minimal support from citizens. I am almost certain that Serbia is the first in Europe in the number of political parties, and perhaps in the world, not to mention that more than 15 years have passed since the last law was passed. So I listened carefully to the afternoon debate on certain provisions of this law, and most of the controversy was focused on a provision on the number of citizens necessary to establish a political party. If we were to ask the citizens of Serbia if it was democratic fluid that there are almost 600 political organisations at the moment or it is a circus, I am quite sure that 99% of the citizens would say it is a circus that is ruling in Serbia. This law is laid down in respect of European legislation and in accordance with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and the restrictions provided for primarily relate to a provision under which the parties cannot work to bring down the constitutional order or territorial integrity of the country. This law, or a good part of these legal solutions, was made in accordance with European legislation and the laws of the most developed European countries -- Austria, Germany, Hungary, Russia, Norway, Finland, Spain, as well as some neighbouring countries, such as Romania, Bulgaria, Macedonia and Republika Srpska. One of the most important provisions of this law is the restriction relating to the minimum number of citizens who can establish a political party. This law provides for new solutions that, instead of so far 100 full-aged citizens, it is necessary for one who intends to establish a political party to collect 5,000 signatures of full-aged citizens, i.e. citizens of Serbia. I think it's a provision that's acceptable at this point as a solution. In addition, I would remind you only that there were political organisations that had fewer votes in each election than they had raised their signatures, or fewer votes than they had registered in the register of those who supported their establishment. An exception to the rules is introduced, which is that at least 500 full-time citizens are required to establish a party of national minorities. This provision is in line with one of the basic constitutional principles, which guarantees special protection for national minorities. These legal solutions are very important and it is quite certain that they will bring order to Serbia's electoral system, although I think I heard Minister Markovic today, I have heard the statements of some MPs, even representatives of national minorities, that this censorship could have been even bigger, and I am joining that stance. I am sorry that Minister Markovic is not here, I would like him to explain to me why there were no more necessary signatures for the establishment of parties. I support that number for the establishment of national minorities' parties is raised to a thousand and for everyone else to 10,000. The law further laid down the way in which the party, i.e. the regulations they must comply, and the obligation to establish the statutes and programme of the party in the founding assembly. When it comes to the name of the party, this law provides for great freedom and gives the possibility to sign the name of a political party in the language and letter of the national minority in addition to the name in Serbian, if the statute provides. Also, the law prevents the visual identity of a political party founded from being identical to the visual identity of the party already established. Practice has shown that the number of political organisations enrolled in the register is significantly higher than the number of political organisations that really act on Serbia's political scene, and that the existing law does not regulate mechanisms to determine whether the political organisation participates in Serbia's political life. In addition, one of the most significant provisions in this part of the law is certainly a provision that introduces a new institute – the renewal of registrations in the register after eight years of entry into the register. In the end, the law elaborated on conditions that define the termination of work and banning the political party. I wouldn't explain it any more. I regret that Minister Markovic is not here because he is one of the few ministers who sits here all the time and listens to the laws he proposes. This makes me more surprised by the fact that in the afternoon session there are so many harsh words and objections to this law by certain MPs addressed to Mr Markovic. This is good law. Democratic Party MPs will surely support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17227	The word is Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17228	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, today we are discussing a law very important for the Republic of Serbia. When we discuss this law, it may be up to us to remember what the beginnings of multi-party life and pluralism in Serbia looked like. Once it was very difficult and dangerous to deal with politics in Serbia, and the restoration of multilateral life and political pluralism in Serbia also risked certain risks. I am very proud and pleased that they are here in the hall and Professor Micunovic, but also Mrs Pesic, and all those people who have contributed to the renewal of multiparty life. In Serbia, however, sometimes the restoration of political pluralism also meant a chance for the start of political exhibitionism. Let's just remember, when the law did not adequately regulate the work and functioning of political parties, who ran for Serbia's elections all and how. Do any of you remember Nikola Sugarski and that famous phrase "brands, brooms"? Do you remember who is everything and how he participated in the election? Did Serbian citizens perhaps forget those parties formed by the former State Security Service in order to endanger political action and the functioning of political parties? Is that really why we are now in a situation where there is no longer a State Security Service, that those parties that this service has formed cease to exist? Of course, in the market for political ideas citizens, voters best determine who will and how to cross the censorship and how a certain political offer will be accepted. It is essential that political ideas, when parties run for their political programmes, voters recognise those who are the best, but in order to do so sometimes it is necessary to regulate this activity by law. I can't help but recall that some people in this country have seen the elections as a competition for the unemployed and the party as a strategic partner. I can't help but think of those people who changed a dozen parties just to participate in the elections and constantly win fewer votes than it is necessary to collect signatures to run for office. I can't help but recall, unfortunately, the fact that many who have participated in the renewal of multiparty life today are not among us, not because they are not involved in politics, but because they have paid a terrible price for their desire to pursue politics. Remember that there are not many among us who have developed the flag of the Democratic Party. As a member of the Resistance, I am very proud of the people's resistance movement, but I must remind you that four thousand people have been in prison for struggling to pass the law on the functioning of political parties in Serbia. Our friends from the Serbian Renewal Movement paid a terrible price because of the desire in Serbia to deal with politics in one orderly way, to pass a law on the functioning of political parties. These victims are not small, they deserve respect, they deserve memory, they deserve that today when we pass this law we remember all the sufferings of all those citizens in Serbia who have paid a terrible price in order to deal with politics in one organised way. Of course, there are many parties in Serbia that some say and insult because of the number of members, so we have had the situation of having both a van and a trotinet party, but all people who cross the census and who enter this building deserve respect and the possibility that political ideas in the market and in parliament fight to achieve their ideas with the language of arguments and facts. It is good that the law, including the Rules of Procedure, makes it impossible for those who want to use language of accumulated pride and primitive language to impose arguments and facts. Finally, I have to remind the citizens that today in the afternoon debate we had the opportunity to hear a lot of words about how many people it takes to register, how many citizens it takes to sign the intention and desire to introduce a party into the political register, and whether it is necessary or not. You know, when you want to drive a car in Serbia, you have to register that car and you have to do a doctor's examination. When someone wants to manage the state, for now it is necessary to register the party, and I hope that a medical examination will also be required for those who consider the management of the state to be an unserious business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17229	The word has the People's MP Petar Kuntic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17230	The respected chairman, respected representatives of the ministry, honourable MPs, on the long journey of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, all political elites in Serbia and the general public in a certain period were spinning on the issue of a new law on political parties. The new law on political parties is good for a political scene stifled with 575 political parties, several times here today, 133 of which are registered in the federal registry and 442 at the Ministry of State Administration. In order to strengthen this claim of suffocation on Serbia's political scene, I will say that big forces, let's say, America has two major parties; so does White Britain; Germany has a centre, and what Serbia has, we have witnessed so far. However, the trend in those countries has been going on for hundreds and years, while democracy in Serbia is still entering the age. The political system in Serbia reflects most of the social conflicts. In this sense, the party's hyperinflation, both typical and other transition countries, has much to say about the confusion on Serbia's political scene and the lack of maturity of the many affairs that appear in it. I mean these 557 parties. Here, leadership vanity and personal breakthroughs are satisfied with the establishment of a political party, so it is no wonder that there are many with the same or similar political programme. On our part, here in Serbia, the bipartisan seems to be developing spontaneously. Already in the 2000 parliamentary elections, and especially in these last year's elections, citizens chose between two options and the parties that made up the options mentioned. The proposed law on political parties regulates the establishment and legal position of the political party, registration and removal from the register of political parties, the termination of political parties and other issues related to the work of political parties. The proposed law clearly defines the position of the political party of the national minority, whose basic function is aimed at representing and representing the interests of a national minority and protecting the rights of members and national minorities in accordance with international standards, programme and statutes of the political party. The political party, as has been said, can establish at least 5,000 full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the political party of the national minority can establish at least 500 full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's much less than that proposal that existed as working material, where initially there were three thousand certified signatures for a national minority party. The political party is required to submit applications for registration in the register every eight years from the date of entry into the register. Exceptionally, the political party does not apply for the renewal of registrations in the register if the candidates proposed on their own or in a coalition of political parties have received at least one term of office in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Within 60 days of the entry into force of this law, the minister shall lay down rules for the enforcement of this law. Political organisations registered in the register of political organisations under the Law on Political Organisations and the Law on Association of Citizens in the Association continue to work if they apply within six months for the entry of a political party into the register of political organisations. Finally, the proposed law also provides for fines ranging from 5,000 to 50,000 for a person acting on behalf of a party which is not registered, and a fine of 50,000 to 500,000 will be fined if the party does not publish a party's act, does not use the party's real name and does not report on time the change in the data entered in the register. In all, this law brings something new to Serbia's political scene and the European Serb coalition will vote for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17231	The word has been given by MP Dragoljub Micunovic, as the last registered speaker of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia. You have 30 minutes at your disposal. Please press charges so I can give you my word in the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17232	Madam Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, we have had a multi-party system for 20 years. There have been laws or attempts to pass them, but I won't be wrong if I share my opinion that we still don't have a well-organized party life in this country. Therefore, the adoption of this law is extremely important, regardless of some of its shortcomings that I will speak of. For nearly half a century, we lived in a paradox, a political paradox. There was one party that filled the entire political space. The Latin word "pars" means part, and now that part was whole. It's not the first time we've played with the theory of gatherings so we can mix the part and the whole. But what was important was that it was this political deficit that brought all political life to one party that was abolished and, as old Herodotus would say, democracy is exactly the act of disabling self-government. Of course, it's been behind us for 20 years now. Our minister who passed these laws once had a custom, it was still about another law, to bring a little bit to our great democratic tradition and a very successful party life in Serbia. If no one would attack me, as happened to me last time, I would have doubted that tradition of organised party and democratic life in Serbian tradition. But make sure it was good, anyway, we have to strive for a better arrangement of party life. In this law, I was distracted by the first two or three members, because one way is defined by the political party, and right behind that by the political party of the national minority. Turns out it's two types of parties and it's a law not on a unique concept, but on two concepts. What is there is, in some ways, worse is the setting of tasks when it is wanted to be handled closer, so it is said that the political party is engaged in organising citizens, it is the association of citizens who form political will, go to elections, fight for votes, etc. It turns out these national minority parties are doing something completely different, just a lot more consensual. They're kind of demoted as political entities. They are engaged in representing their national minorities, representing the interests of these minorities and are mainly defined by their content. I think that's bad. It's bad in general by law, but I think it's bad for the national minorities themselves. I think two things have been mixed up here. The fact that positive discrimination was intended to enable national minorities to have an equal political life by reducing the censorship is a small number needed to educate the party, these are technical issues, in line with positive discrimination, but not programming. I think that these two things are completely mixed, one desire to carry out positive discrimination, and on the other hand, that led to the wrong definition. It has certain consequences. What about members of national minorities who are members of other parties and do they, by entering other parties of general civil interest, cease to be an integral part or care for their countrymen and their national minority? This can cause very unpleasant fluctuations and suspicions during the election campaign. That's why I would advise the government or try to do it now or make a quick change, but that thing has to be defined. The political party is a political party. It must be defined in the same way for everyone. Every citizen has the right to enter whatever party he wants. That's the key. I think we need to fix this as soon as possible. Secondly, I know that we will have a law on party financing, but since the parties are being financed budgetally, I think it was necessary to enter the law and it is not an offense, when it comes to political parties, to say that they are financed in two, three ways, by their memberships, by their budgets and by other additional revenues. It would be very important for it to stand, because if it stands then the right of the Assembly, budget auditors and all others to control political parties, to see their budgets, to see revenues and expenditures. This transparency is necessary to avoid these suspicions that were so characteristic of our political life. Where'd somebody get the money? Is that a fair party or not? I think it was necessary to make it budgetary, among other things and budgetary, institutions, and to follow certain obligations that they must make. It's the same thing with the program and the statutes. It is clear what the programme must not have – discrimination, hate speech, overthrow of constitutional order, etc. However, do the programmes in a more concrete sense adhere to parties? Probably not, not literally, but it's something that's meant and it's possible to interpret the program more elasticly. But there can be no more elastic interpretation of the statutes. The statutes are generally not respected, nor in the regular maintenance of certain assemblies which the parties must also have procedures that they must respect, etc. What it says in the statute must be verifiable and sanctioned unless it has happened, unlike a programme that can be renewed. I don't think these shortcomings in this law make, in any way, unnecessary or suspicious of its adoption at this time. On the contrary, I think this law was very necessary, and then we'll work on it, because we have opportunities every time in practice it turns out it's produced some negative consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17233	The word has been passed by Parliament MP Marina Ragus, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17234	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the authorised representative on this agenda was to be Mr. Zoran Krasic, but for known reasons he is unable to attend this regular session. I hope that in a decent way, I will be able to present all those MPs of the SRS who, in their own way, contributed to this presentation. What we had the opportunity to hear during today's session, as well as yesterday's, is the political atmosphere within which we bring such a significant and important law on political parties, which should aim to regulate political life in the state of Serbia and no one normally can oppose or oppose such a goal. When it comes to Serbia's political scene, it can only be a meaningful operation and the activity of all of us who are trying, with less or more success, to engage seriously within the framework of the overall activity, with one basic goal, which is to improve the lives of Serbian citizens. Nor is it a fact that anyone can oppose, even if not those who try to be serious when it comes to the mandates that the citizens have handed over, in terms of achieving a better standard of living. These are all the facts that we have had the opportunity to hear from colleagues from the ruling coalition and other opposition colleagues, who stand and who are in place, and we can only say hello. The charmingness of political beliefs and convictions that should bring this country's administration and order traditionally respected and recognizable countries on the political and geographical map of Europe and the world should be the goal of all of us. Of course political life in Serbia cannot and should not be seen as a game of patriotism and patriotism because both should be the assumption of every citizen of the Serbian state. What is an umbrella and a categorical imperative for each political party should be a constitutionally guaranteed political system, sovereignty and territorial integrity. It's something that's supposed to be and that's not being discussed. In this regard, it is only natural that all parties acting by their work and their activities act against the constitution of the guaranteed system and should not act further. It's a fact that stands, political correctness is about, which I guess there's no need to discuss or talk about. But what there is a need to talk about is what happens to freely expressed electoral will in the elections and whether the elections in Serbia, which presupposes to be a democratically shaped state by recognizable and respectable procedures that make up democracy, allow for the preservation of the electoral will of citizens. You won't mind, ladies and gentlemen, but I will, during this presentation, and how to look at certain concrete examples that have and how they have been flagrantly affecting the democratic nature of the system and regimes in Serbia. Our political belief is that the electoral will is expressed in the May elections in 2008 is indeed flagrantly done. The Serbian Radical Party won 78 seats in the election. It happened that a number of MPs separated from the ranks of the SRS and it is natural and it is the right of every man to change his political conviction at one point and go some other way. What's inadmissible is to take with him what was tradition and procedure. A new political party was formed in Serbia's political scene, called the Serbian Progressive Party. And, to be perfectly clear, the SRS can have absolutely nothing against the political belief of the people who make up the SNS, who decided to take a new path, set their programming goals and set out to build their politically recognizable activities. Also, the SRS can only respect the election results achieved by the SNS in the local elections, and will always respect. As you've heard, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, I was the first to congratulate everyone on their successes in the Kovin local elections. We are here to finish, and draw the line, with certain problems that I do not think are in the interest of Serbian citizens, but we are also here to exchange and cross political arguments and political views. What it is, the SRS, is a disregard for procedures and rules that make up the fundamental nature of parliamentary democracy. As the gentlemen earlier stated that for parliamentary democracy in the totalitarian system, as you call it, many victims have fallen, they really need to be bowed down. As you have also stated, many have paid too high a price in the context of fighting for democratic values, you should also pay tribute, but, ladies and gentlemen, you have forgotten the example of the president of the SRS, who has also served for resistance to the totalitarian system in many systems. So much for correct political dialogue. What I've been trying to demonstrate all along is the Serbian Radical Party's attempt to open political dialogue. Political culture, methods of fighting may be discussed on another topic, but if you are trying to act in a system that is well controlled, and when it comes to political propaganda, the Serbian Radical Party, because it has felt it on its skin several times, knows very well what it looks like, it is necessary even for you to scandalize the public in order to draw attention to yourself and thus earn space to pass the political struggle. I suppose, ladies and gentlemen, you will also agree with the next fact – it has never happened that the SRS destroys existing institutions by its own actions, whatever they may be, whoever exercises power. Perhaps with more passion, perhaps with more temperament, perhaps with more imagination or liveliness, as Mrs. Komic says, we are trying to present our arguments, but we are recognizable by respecting the institutions and trying to follow the rules. However, on the Serbian political scene, a tectonic disorder occurred, and what the Serbian Radical Party felt on its skin was disrespect for the procedure, disrespect for agreements and the inability to find a political will to solve certain problems. So, if resignations on the parliamentary mandates disappear, of course certain institutions will try to determine what it is, but one party in this parliament was created by picking up resignations on the mandates of the Serbian Radical Party. Thus, the election will that the Serbian citizens expressed in the May elections in 2008, and hence encourages all that is happening in the state of Serbia. We have tried in an institutional way; of course Parliament is not the place to determine who has taken the mandates, in which the resignations are actually the terms of office, which each MP signifies and belongs to his party... So, it is not a parliament where such a thing is determined, you will admit, criminal activity and I will not talk about it, but it is a parliament and it is a place to talk about the full end of the electoral will. This parliament does not reflect the image that took place in May 2008. This is not the first or last situation in the history of parliamentaryism in Serbia, ladies and gentlemen. The relationship between the People's Radical Party and the Progressive Party existed in the 19th century. The parallel works, then Austria actually built a certain group of people to carry out its interests in Serbia's territory. Since a countryman like Nikola Pasic, president of the former People's Radical Party, mentioned here, and mentioned a truly remarkable political mind, I will remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that he has shown himself to a problem with adversaries (repeated now) once in the Serbian parliament by reading a letter addressed to the Russian consulate. Why did Nikola Pasic do it? Because Nikola Pasic's dream was freed Serbia, an independent Serbia. He wanted to draw attention to the fact that Austria was involved in Serbia's political scene at the time. He wanted to draw attention that the political scene in Serbia is not independent. Just remember the historical circumstances then, they're about the same as the historical circumstances now. Back then, it was Austro-Hungarian, and now it's a force called the United States. I can give an example of Mr. Manter, who on a TV show B 92, it seems to me that the "In Focus" show was on the question of journalists whether the political scene of Serbia had responded – yes, of course, and I am doing my best. He's talking to all the political champions, that's irrefutable evidence. When it happened in the SRS, already recognizable, when the resignations on the SRS mandates disappeared, the Forwards of Serbia club within this parliament was singled out, the head of the US and the head of the British mission welcomed the advances and said it was a European acceptable right. We, ladies and gentlemen, were trying to solve this problem then told us – we are not advanced, we want them every good, and we want them every time as much success as possible in the election, let them try their strength and they won't have a problem with us. We then said there was democratic power on the exam. The resignations that were not disputed have been handed over to the Administrative Committee and we expected the decision to be as it should be, but the problems have accumulated, the decision has not been made for both us and the public in Serbia is quite clear what concept and what project it is. We Serbian radicals have continued the pressures, forced administration in the municipality of Zemun has been introduced, we have initiated certain procedures before the competent judicial institutions, which we have unequivocally had evidence of, we have informed the public that there has been pressure, there has been no room for forced administration, but what is there is, it is a fact and we accept it, waiting for some new elections in which the force will be measured. But what's going on? Of course, all of this is reflected in the political scene and the atmosphere in Serbia's parliament. All the media supported the advances. All the media were against the SRS. All media have sided with the kidnapping of mandates, the end of the electoral will of citizens. This should have been a sufficient and clear example to the Serbian public, and this is our political belief that I am now trying to reflect these concrete examples, that it is indeed going to remove the SRS from Serbia's political scene. For this reason, before the Serbian minister in the afternoon part of the session, and even during yesterday, I presented our anxiety, you will agree, I know that most of the congratulatory colleagues agree that it is fully justified, that this law on political parties will absolutely not be possible to implement it in order, as the Serbian minister tried to present us, to bring order into political life in Serbia. If that were true, and that the Serbian government and the executive government in Serbia really intend to bring order to the Serbian state, this parliament and certain opposition MPs would not be satanized through the regime media. We wouldn't be like the APBs in the regime media. We would be fully equal political actors of events in Serbia. If the regime had no fear of increasing the SRS rating, if those who created and introduced a protectorate over Serbia had no problem with the SRS, the SRS would not have suffered a blow at the end of last year. It was very recognizable that it was the strongest opposition party, which would oppose the Brussels and Washington administration. It was very recognizable that the SRS would not be for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement because it was known to be, de facto, recognition of Kosovo's independence and Metohija. It was very recognizable... Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, 90% of you cannot blame, simply there is no power, we are fully convinced that nothing in favour of respecting what is the democratic nature of parliamentary democracy in Serbia, that none of this will happen, but it must remain written. Those investigating Serbian parliamentary life must know that in 2008 and 2009, according to the dictatorship of the US and British ambassador, the electoral will of citizens has ceased. All those involved left their signature and that is the only thing the SRS as an opposition party can do, thus expressing its political confidence that this law will not bring order to political life in Serbia. Political life in Serbia, I don't think there's any man to whom it's absolutely unclear, is completely controlled. Indeed, as if we had two parliaments: one in which the opposition and one in which the position lies. It doesn't pass a day without us being satanic. It's not a day goes by, and if you set up a particular problem and try to find solutions, and it's about the collapse of national interests from our political vision, you're not a victim of persecution. It does not pass a day without the public in Serbia being scandalized by the fact that the fact that they will go to the elections and vote absolutely does not mean, somewhere in the final collection, nothing or very little. The correct finding made by Mr. Minister during the afternoon session is that the turnout in the last elections is lower, that people lose confidence in political parties. What is it that we all do together to restore that trust? So, the Serbian public is daily, day by day, in an opportunity to watch something called a full derogation of political life in Serbia, in the following way – if we voted, we gave our trust to certain actors that each of their political specialities is trying to improve life, there is nothing of it, political will ends, what then elections. There is an impression, indeed, that this is becoming Boris Tadic's disciplinary commission and that Serbia is slowly but certainly becoming the gulag of a party in power. Here, maybe we're wrong, maybe this is all a political phrase or, as some ministers might say, a cheap political trick. Ladies and gentlemen, please assure us that's not the case. Give us the counterargument. Discuss those two mandates that are not disputed. On one of his resignations, a certain MP gave with intent, apparently now, the wrong information. But two resignations are not controversial. We expect you to discuss it, as you have discussed so far. It's always been a mandate, until now, to a political party. Maybe that's wrong, but that's how it's been so far. If you decide, as most, to make it different, the SRS will express its position, but will respect the majority's decision, it will respect what the government in Serbia says. We can justifiably try, with less or more success, to prove that what you are doing is not the best way for Serbia. It's our right, it's an integral part of the opposition's being. We don't even have the need, by the very definition of opposition work, anything to suggest. The crisis is time and we are doing our best, we are trying to offer some concrete solutions to the crisis in which Serbia is. Let me give you another example. Here, deny me, tell me not to tell the truth. Give me one particular reason, assure me that you really want life in Serbia back to normal. The last incident that happened, it's a detachment, so the strictest punishment given to the opposition MPs, which is why I've been here alone for a few days. This is a sad picture for democracy. I'm not saying there were exaggerations from all sides, but whoever made the decision that the strongest opposition political party was sitting in the way it was sitting, behind the backs of a very small political opposition party, had to know and expected a reaction from Serbian radicals. Or should we turn away from the situation? How would you behave? I remember when the election will was over. You won certain votes in the local elections. Someone tried to steal it. You, ladies and gentlemen, took the people to the streets, quite rightly, had reason to. Someone stole the free will of the people in the election. The crisis is in Serbia, there is recession in Serbia, Serbia is over-indebted. The Serbian Radical Party experienced your fate when you were an opposition, so we didn't take the people to the streets. Serbia's radical party is not allowed media space to say what I'm saying right now, because this is the only possible medium left. What were you doing in those situations? You want me to remind you? You had Anem, who covered 70% of the territory in that Milosevic system. ANEM is, to remind you, the Association of Independent Electronic Media. The SRS doesn't have any media. We read about ourselves the ugliest things. What do you expect, ladies and gentlemen, to do, to say - good for you? That's what you wanted, to tear our party apart, take our mandates, make a political scene that suits you. Let's make a deal. We don't need elections, we don't need parliament. What's our resistance? Our resistance is these t-shirts with the image of our party's president, whom Carla del Ponte, a dear colleague, says is packed for political reasons and sent to The Hague, the SRS does not say. It's our kind of resistance. Does that bother anyone? Are we destroying institutions that way? Did we bring hungry people to the streets of Serbia? No, because we know that it is not to be played with in Serbia, which comes to the edge of poverty. What's another form of our resistance? That, of course, we're going to ask to advertise the procedure, and then risk being told, without advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that we absolutely have no right to do so and that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's those causal-consequential reactions. It's gone too far. Of course, this does not say that Serbian radicals are infallible. Of course we're wrong and we pay for our mistakes in the election. It's the only way to pay for mistakes. To remind you, we were punished by the people in 2000. We then won about 323,000 votes. The people were right, he was tired, sanctions, wars, no explanations, isolation. The people don't need to know what it's all about. The people have only one need: to live a life of a worthy man. It was the right decision. We were punished because we weren't able to organize it. Here, nine years later, or three years later compared to 2000, we exceeded the number of millions of votes, because the people were convinced that what was promised on October 5th was not achieved. Now, nine years later, you come into that situation, the historical, economic, political, that we were in. I would hate for the consequences of the international community's pressure to be the way we were in the 1990s trying to do our best to protect what was being protected by all those countries that bombed us, which is sovereignty and territorial integrity. All that aside now. You've taken over the totalitarian system mechanisms and conducted it over the opposition. It is our belief that the final result of this, following the Satanization of a certain part of the opposition, is finally a ban on the work of the SRS. I'd like to be reassured during the debate in particular by your argument that what we're expressing is not true. Here's a picture of parliament today in Serbia, so it can only mean to us that the electoral will here has been broken, that a terrible media satanization has been made by someone deciding to replace the thesis, so it's said that Serbian radicals are the most important thing where they sit. Of course not, no one in Serbia is normal, but Serbian radicals are the most important democratic nature of the regime. The Serbian Radicals are indeed the most important parliamentary democracy, and the parliamentary democracy knows what treatment the strongest opposition party should have. For this reason, Serbian radicals have used and will use the means of political struggle. It's 48 radicals away in the last attempt to introduce the so-called The order in the regular National Assembly meeting was that one MP, Mr Aleksandar Martinovic, asked for a word by the Rules of Procedure, did not get it, and the others were solidarityd and everyone went out. Let me remind you, and the Serbian public must know – about this problem, about the transfer to this prestigious home, to this monument of culture, where anyone will sit, no one has ever consulted the SRS. The representatives of the SRS did not vote in favour of this schedule at the meeting of the Administrative Committee. That's true. What the media is writing... Most of the people who deal with journalism are honest people, but all of us who have journalistic experience know how to create public opinion in Serbia. Now I ask you, does this really grow a huge fear of the SRS, as soon as the repression towards the SRS is so strong? Why the repression in a democratic society? If you give me the counterarguments that all this stuff I've been talking about is not the nature of the repressive apparatus, I'll say hello and say you're absolutely right. Then I'll tell you, just give us our mandates back. So we're not asking you to do what the court does. Let the court officer do his job. We ask you to give us back our undeniable mandates, based on the resignations sent to the Administrative Committee. That's where every dilemma ends. There is Serbia slowly but surely entering normal political dialogue. Let me also remind you, which is the political atmosphere in which we all live, to contribute to reaching a political agreement – we have broadly entered into the vote of the budget, we have reached an agreement that, ladies and gentlemen, you as partners in this business did not respect. So, we are really expressing a reasonable doubt that, given what has so far taken pictures of political life in Serbia, which is burdened... No one turned to improving life and easing the effects of the crisis in Serbia can look forward to the election, which costs. Not to be misunderstood, the SRS will always go to the polls on its own. In the first place because he wants to try his own strength, and second, because he wants to see where he's wrong, what is it that he needs to correct, which political methodology he needs to apply. It's a perfectly normal nature and the elections are there as a control mechanism that will try on all of us. So, and to fall below the censorship and win several mandates and fall from 78 mandates to one term, my God, that's a normal political life. If we're going to fall 30% to two or five percent, it's a good mechanism for us. We look forward to it. In a period of crisis, of course we can't. If that's the case, if the new elections can't solve all these dilemmas and this disturbance within the political scene, let's try to solve it together and then you'll talk us out of it. Then you will show us that this bill is feasible, that what the Serbian minister said by explaining this bill will indeed be feasible and that the goal will indeed be to bring order into political life in Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, no one here is an anarchist. I guess we're all here and everyone paid, every political party paid that price here and felt the repression on itself, whether it was in power or in opposition, felt what it meant to fight for parliamentary democracy. I guess it's a normal urge that we all function in the atmosphere of a regulated political life. Who will be more successful, more or less, let the citizens decide. We have now come into such a situation that someone has stolen peace from our political lives. He has very consciously manipulated the chaos into political life. That's how he trims the political scene so he doesn't manipulate it any better. So some people, and let them start from this debate, should be brought only by common sense and say – that's enough. Right here we are starting to think as Democrats, as people who want to be democratically respecting the rules, respecting the procedure to regulate political life in Serbia. With this in mind, Serbia's minister cannot be found in an argument, but doubts about implementation can be expressed. For these very reasons, I certainly know, given that I have heard all of you and listened very carefully, that you are all facing these principles, that for these or those reasons you cannot clearly say that what is pictured by concrete examples is something that cannot happen to one state or society. I'm not gonna ask you to do that. What the SRS is looking for, and here's how we fight, is just reaching a political agreement. This regular session will be over. Serbian radicals will not disrupt political life in Serbia. What needs to remain is this signature of parliamentary democracy and the possibility or inability to find and reach a political agreement. You'll admit, ladies and gentlemen, that what we're looking for is really a minimum, minimum democratic procedure and nothing more than that. When the next election takes place, there may be a fact for us... Not perhaps, for sure, is always the fact that the election results have been achieved. Your former president, unfortunately, the murdered Serbian prime minister, because no one deserves such punishment, came to our premises in 2000 for election results. The president of the SRS was the first to congratulate all of you on your election results. No matter how hard he personally worked for political action, the political methodology, recognizable, it's his style, not to exercise power, for then justified reasons, it's a political struggle, he came out and congratulated. It has never happened that the Serbian Radical Party was known for a different procedure after the election ended. In the next election, we want all the happiness of this world to all of you, especially the advances. The results you will achieve will only be welcomed and congratulated. It's a democratic commitment, you've chosen your way and it's nothing controversial. Knowing some of you personally, I know that and how you know how you're sitting in parliament right now. If you were in our position, maybe the political action would be much more dynamic and harsher on your part. That's what I'm saying by knowing some of you. What is important is that the Serbian public is fully convinced why the SRS has been trying to distract and send a concrete and clear political message all these months. For this very reason. Trying to give a decent introduction to all my colleagues, I have tried, in fact, to gather enough examples that they have prepared for the presentation, and unfortunately, they have not been able to present them to you and the Serbian public. I hope that this will change and that, after the end of the sentence, they will return to the regular work of another session and that you will have the opportunity to listen to them (in their recognizable style) and to participate in the work together so that during the time when the greatest impact of the crisis on the Serbian population on the effect of this crisis is expected to make the citizens of Serbia painless. In the debate in particular, we will try, with less or more success, to point out amendments to what we think can be fixed, where the legislator should intervene so that political life in Serbia is much more mature and comfortable for all those who have the freedom of political association, and thus also to express political convictions. So, as I said, Mr. Zoran Krasic was supposed to be an authorised promoter for this topic of the agenda. What he said in his material that he had contributed to this regular session, I will deal fully with the discussion of the details. Mr Krasic, among other things, is of the opinion that this law is necessary to replace the absence of legitimacy and legality, so that all political parties find themselves in the same situation as the one founded in 1990 or 1991, as well as the one founded in October 2008. It would probably forget how, as I said, one party was created in this House. In the text of the bill, according to Mr Krasic, with reason, and that is his belief, it is certainly written only in 1881. I am sorry that Mr Krasic is not here, he would indeed do so in more detail and with much more arguments, as a man of great political experience, explain to you, Mr. Minister, to the Serbian public and colleagues. I will do my best to try to replace Mr Krasic in a decent way, although I honestly think it is impossible. So, how does Mr Krasic see individual solutions from the bill? He believes that he certainly deserves special attention, for example, Article 12. The draft law governing the establishment of a political party shall contain the statements of the founders. The opinion is that the DS advocates and proposes an overture of the founders' signature by the court, and perhaps this applies to the municipal authority of the administration, because it is an overa single-sided statement by citizens. However, according to Mr Krasic, whether it is a court or a municipal authority of the administration, we have great experience regarding trusted and unilateral statements at all. Let us remember that for the presidential elections and for the election of MPs, 10,000 court-certified statements were also envisaged, so we had a situation that neither the court was a guarantee and that statements of the dead were certified, persons who did not exist, and there were minors. Thus, the judicial overture in practice did not show or prove the presummation of accuracy. If information had been reported about what was wrong in those court-confirmed statements, it would have been easy to obtain a percentage of the most obvious forgeries. Let us remember that there were candidates with more than 10,000 judicially certified signatures of a person who supported the candidacy, so the same candidate did not get, say, eight thousand votes in the election. So, it's just amazing, as Mr Krasic says, that whoever was court-certified by his signature did not find someone's candidacy appropriate that after 20 days of voting for the candidate he most officially supported, with a full name and last name. So, the conclusion is simple -- it's either a fake or someone has secured the signatures for the candidacy so that the candidate will interfere with the election of another option, or it's some good job to allegedly earn some money. Mr Krasic would be much better here than me to present his position when it comes to the establishment of a political party, which is being held at the founding assembly. Since the statements of the founders of the establishment of a political party constitute an integral part of the founding act, which are members of the 11th and 12th of this bill, then all founders should be present in a 5,000-seat hall, or in an hall with a higher or lower capacity, and certainly at least in the number that is definitely prescribed by Articles 8 and 9. It's a bill of law. So if the founding act is adopted in the founding assembly, then all the signatories of the founders' statements on the establishment of the political party must be present because they have the legitimate right to establish, discuss and vote. This is an example of how a legal-technical solution not only affects, but also challenges the very essence of freedom of political association. Because if they are not able and able to make 5,000 (or, if you accept the amendment, 10,000), as much as necessary, it is in the O.R. on that day, to participate equally, to decide as founders, then we question the very freedom of political association and the freedom to express political conviction, or even democratic procedure. It should also be borne in mind that I am a founding act, when adopted, implies that founders must agree with the programme and the statute. Therefore, everything stated in Article 10 must be in unity and do the whole. Therefore, the solution referred to in Article 11(2). The draft law, i.e. declarations as part of the founding act, must apply both to the programme and to the statutes within the meaning of Article 10. It's a bill of law. This must be clearly stated and the promoter had to bear in mind, when making this bill, that the law must be very concrete, clear and precise, so that it leaves no room for free interpretation. So it can't be left for prescribing looks by, say, the minister. So the acceptance of the programme and the statutes must be governed by Articles 10 or 11. The proposal for a law, as it is contained in the action to adopt acts referred to in Article 10. A bill of law and a minimum number of citizens as founders. According to Mr Krasic, the provision of Article 8 in the case of existing solutions under the bill is pointless. It is pointless whether five or ten thousand adult citizens are proposed as founders, because it is impossible to provide such a large hall for the party's founding assembly, but also because it does not know what the figure on the minimum number of founders of a political party should be. If the purpose of a number of founders is to prove the seriousness and responsibility of a political option created by the party, then it certainly cannot be some minimum number of founders. So how serious is the action being created with 5,000 adult voters? So, to remind ourselves, the candidacy for the President of the Republic requires at least 10,000 signatures of the person who supports the candidacy. That is, therefore, a minimum number for ordinary candidacy. The political party, as you have done with absolute right and very right, Mr. Minister, today, has said, is a serious institute of one society by being able to exercise and exercise power. So you can run anyone off the street with 10,000 signatures, but the political party, with constitutional roles that are recognised to it, certainly requires a very high degree of seriousness. Under a certain condition, according to Mr Krasic, and especially if he wins a large number of votes and citizens' favors, the political party is in a position to manage lives, or to regulate life in Serbia. That is why, according to Mr Krasic, it must prevent someone from, say, rich individuals who wish to have their own party from doing so with a small number of alleged founders. It is possible that one of these wealthy orders that all employees of his company or companies become allegedly free and voluntary, in fact mandatory by nature, founders of a political party. It is always normal and expected with such a predicted number of founders of such a serious political system as the political party. However, it is possible that this rich man literally buys out a political party. In Serbia's political society, there are really a number of examples of influence by certain financial centres. We have to remember that the final example is exactly the example I was talking about earlier. Therefore, it is necessary to increase the minimum number of political party founders, for this and for similar reasons, from 5,000 to 10,000, and possibly to a larger number. That's why, Mr. Minister, you're due to the seriousness of what the political party should be saying during the afternoon session. This does not call into question the freedom of political association, but requires a political party to have a minimum of seriousness and responsibility for the creation of a political option, alternatives and a view of the reorganization of society in the end, and for the very seriousness of perhaps future authorities. So the freedom of political association, according to Mr Krasic, must have an impact on life and on the work on certain territory, regardless of whether the political party participates in the exercise of power. So, only the existence of a political party has, of course, a certain degree of seriousness. However, when it comes to territory, it is questionable what part of the territory the bill will be implemented. Is this bill related, say, to both part of Kosovo and Metohija? Let's go back to the subject of the bill. Article 13 sets out what must contain the political party's programme. Mr Krasic believes that the political party's programme, by nature of things, is a general act and it, in addition to principles, goals and values, would also have to contain a description of the funds the political party intends to implement and implement its programme. In addition to the law of the presumed way that the political party intends to achieve its programme by participating in the elections and, depending on the outcome of the elections, possible participation in the exercise of power, a description of the means the political party intends to act must be listed in the programme, as it best sees whether it is defined for functioning in a democratic society. As a condition, this does not allow a definition of the values that the political party advocates. Unfortunately, today, a large number of political parties cannot be sure what their programme is. The SRS is of the opinion that this really needs to be discussed, here in what context: most often political activity by the political party does not correspond to the political party's programme. As a lawyer, who is still a man of respect, I ask – what in the situation, here is to design the situation on future days, what happens if the party departs from its programme, if this programme is really just a letter on paper? What are the penalties in that case, what are the sanctions in that case, because then we have a whole other political party? If we have in mind what you have explained by this bill, which is the introduction of order into Serbia's political life, how do you think you can bring order into Serbia if the political parties write the programme for one reason, and they change their political activity from election to election, while courting voters and misleading them in such a way that they do not go as well as possible in the elections themselves? What is also very important, and where should we also hear a response from Mr. Minister, what happens in the situation of direct interference in political life and in the formation of political parties, if it is proved with success, by, say, NGOs or representatives of diplomatic missions, what do we think is simply unacceptable for a society? In this sense, what are the sanctions, i.e. what are the activities of the forward ministry, and how to restore order to political life in Serbia? Honestly, I'm in a dilemma about how much time I've had left from the time foreseen for the MP's group, because I don't see on the screen, for obvious reasons. (President: 17 minutes from the time available to the SRS parliamentary group and one minute as an authorised representative. Here you go. ) Then I will be able to deal with it, I hope you will not mind me, the exposure Mr Krasic has really prepared and pedanticly for the entire Serbian public, your fellow MPs and Mr. Minister. In addition to the political party's programme, it is almost the same situation with the political party's statutes. It is, of course, an internal constitutional general act which the membership, in principle of freedom and volunteering, accepts as a binding act of conduct and respect, and is impossible for the collegiate body to work and decide without respecting the majority's decisions. This is particularly true of political parties. Therefore, in the political parties themselves, members voluntarily gave up one part of their absolute freedom to comply with the decision of the authorities, or the decision of the majority. It's perfectly normal, and I guess no one has a problem with that. Today, we have examples of disrespect for the party's collective bodies, examples of very plastically resisting the decision of the majority within the political party, thus dictating the political party's own life. Then the question arises how can these political actors be trusted by word in any other option. For example, if the goal is to bring order into Serbia's political life, I would like to hear how you think you're dealing with such problems, and we've all been witnessing this kind of action for the past few months. I have a remark, I don't mind too much because it's more than obvious that it's almost a setup and a fact, because today you named the entire KPK group Serbia as a parliamentary group of the Serbian Progressive Party. I guess it's a lapus. Knowing your professional reputation, I cannot accept that you accept the end of the election will. It's just that it's not you. If the lapus, I hope, is political correctness, it will not happen again, because on this side you would never experience me in such a way (let's say, that this happened to your party) I address any of your MPs who took the mandates and set up a new party. I would like to thank you in advance for the correctness of the perspective. So, if the statute as a constitutional general act regulates the internal organisation of the political party, as Mr Krasic considers, the organs, then it is binding for all. We are most often witnessing that the statute as an act governing only the party's functioning and should confirm the very nature of the party, whether it is democratically made and implemented by decisions... If this is not respected, as Professor Micunovic said, it is a matter that the ministry, which normally deals with the lives and work of political parties, should take a lot of account, in terms of supervision, then the question is how can we trust such political actors in a word if they do not respect their instruments. So anyone who registers and is granted registration that can act as a political party should naturally stand under the microscope of the state, because the state must have all the mechanisms to protect the Constitution-guaranteed system. That's not controversial. We expect it to be made public and that all the problems we face are publicly detected. Why? So they don't do it again. If we all come from one system that kills multilaterals and freedoms in all sorts of ways, then, ladies and gentlemen, all of us, without any difference, learn democracy. Perhaps only the political generations behind us will be freed from what is called the legacy of a system, a one-party system, and only then, with full freedom, will they be able to say that they are ready for the proceedings, that they can bring out what are the democratic principles of parliamentary democracy. All of us here, no matter how intellectually we try, but unfortunately not naturally, we can't say that. Most often, in certain crisis situations of political life, when all our faces and appearances are seen, we reach out to the methods and methodology of the totalitarian system. The easiest way to react to a crisis is to reach out to methods of repression, silence, asphyxiation, control. But all of this is understandable, given that we are learning democracy, given that the tradition of our parliamentary democracy has been interrupted for a truly envious period and that has left a mark in all of us. For the sake of this contribution, I expect the rest of the ministry to detect all these problems and to publicly present, for example, extremely correct and civilised, so that such examples are not repeated in the future. Mr Krasic also reminds of article 3 of the law on the financing of political parties. I think we're going to deal with this, because time is slowly but surely running out, in the discussion of the details, and I would really like to touch all the objections and suggestions that my colleague Krasic made, simply to see the scope of the presentation of the SRS Parliamentary Group in the discussion of the details. So, Mr Krasic rightly believes that in Article 16. The bill went too far with the obligations of publication on the internet of other general acts of the political party, if it has brought them. If such a thing does not exist as an obligation, for example, for state authorities and other legal entities, then it is not clear why this obligation exists for political parties. This is particularly surprising when it comes to the fact that the violation of Article 16 is also a violation of Article 41. It's a bill of law. As another general act, election activities programmes, looks or replaces membership cards can also appear, and it is unclear why, in the event that this is not published on the Internet, it would be a violation. We think that the obligation in terms of technological and technical progress and transparency, which we all advocate, is the availability of data and information from all those state authorities and institutions of general and public interest, so that citizens, as taxpayers, have full insight into where and how their money is spent. Mr. Minister, you will agree, I welcome the intention that this bill will be the first to make such a move, but it is not clear why it is not an obligation for all those who are obliged to make very clear and transparent disclosures of certain data that are of interest to the Serbian public. The situation is similar, according to Mr Krasic, with the provision of Article 17. Proposal for a law on paragraphs 4 and 5. This is particularly surprising when it is known that the political party's organisation unit is not a legal person on territorial grounds, and thus cannot be the bearer of certain rights, obligations and responsibilities outside the political party in general. This large involvement of the Ministry in the organisational issues of the political party is likely to come from an analogy that applies when it comes to companies and their organisational units outside the seat which do not have legal personality status and which are specifically registered with the Agency for Business Registers. In companies, according to Mr Krasic, this type of record and registration in the relevant register is necessary because of economic activity, but the political party's activity can never be economic. Decisions referred to in Articles 4 and 5. The bill represents the illegal involvement of the state authority in freedom of political association, i.e. the constitutional basis and the framework for individual solutions. So, this, to say the least, is a surprise because, in territorial terms, political parties' executive committees, district committees, local, municipal, all the way to the trustees for narrow territory within the party's local board or to the organisational work by polling stations. In Article 19(1), paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The bill is not at all a clear formulation of the name of a political party that violates the moral feelings of citizens. It seems that society is returning to a period before the introduction of a multilateral system when similar formulations protected the reputation and work of Comrade Tito. Given the legislator of this law, it is not known whether moral feeling will be protected against Slobodan Milosevic, Zoran Djindjic, Vojislav Seselj or anyone else. What's very important? Who is it that will decide and interpret what moral feelings are violated, and who really has an authentic interpretation in terms of this member of the bill? In Article 21. The draft law solution comes out of the box prescribed in Article 55(5). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, the question arises whether it is possible by law to prohibit conflicts of interest in a different way than the Constitution, both Article 55 and Article 6. When the list was carried out, it is interesting that no trustee for equality was listed, when he was, under the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, in an almost identical position as the Protector of Citizens. The SRS and the mandated promoter for this item of the agenda, Mr Krasic, believe that there is unnecessary confusion, but I assume that you will, as a representative of the resolution ministry, during the debate on details, explain or explain this proposal to us in more detail. Article 6 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed that state and public functions cannot be performed because of some other function, business or private interests, and Article 55. The Constitution of the Republic is a number of taxing functions that do not allow it to be a member of the political party. These are sufficient reasons why we believe that this article has brought unnecessary confusion into this bill. What should be made clear because of the public, and I hope to speak in acceptable categories so that all people, and without the necessary knowledge, can understand – membership in the political party is not a function, nor a job, nor a private interest, to which Article 6 applies. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Membership in the political party cannot be a conflict of interest, and in the case of Article 55. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has no conflict of interest, but there is a constitutional ban. The Constitution very clearly and decadently states in which cases there is a conflict of interest. The words "as well as other persons whose function is incompatible with the law with membership in the political party", in Article 21(3). The bill, they are formulated as a conflict of interest, not as a ban, and therefore they do not belong in this bill. It's our belief. We can discuss this during the discussion in detail. The constitutional ban must not be spread by law. In addition, a bad message is being sent that membership in the political party is a planetary danger to all other activities. With this in mind, I fully agree that we all have to work together on a very serious job, to be proud (I have listened very carefully to the exposure) by representing certain political parties, to respect our diversity, but to try to reach a common goal. What I can tell you with certainty is that in the coming period, the SRS will make a huge contribution, because there is nothing better when you act as a political party and work in a society that is regulated, which respects diversity and does not suffer any discrimination, in which a political opponent is a political insinuator, not an enemy and in which political insinuators are not threatened by persecution, banning speech, satanization, gulaging, until, finally, the most terrible and brutal act such as physical liquidation. Our history and world history are filled with these examples, but I hope that in the near future we will make initial, pioneering steps (the crisis is, obviously we all forget in this crisis to behave in a democratic way), that we will make an effort to work patiently and committedly in order to improve the political atmosphere and finally restore citizens' confidence in all of us, to convince citizens that it is good to go out in elections, that only in such a way can we participate in Serbia's political life, that with pride we can solve every citizen, regardless of what option he voted for, to look into his face, to say that we will listen to him, to live in the lives of ordinary citizens, that we will try and give our best to agree and dialogue at least some of his questions, if not all, but to try to make Serbia a safe house for all of us, regardless of which political beliefs we go. I don't know exactly how much time I have left, but the time is gone, unfortunately. I thank you all for your attention and patience. I would really like the public in Serbia to be fully convinced that if this significant step is taken from all sides (and I have listened to you all carefully) to build this political will and come to political agreements, the SRS will contribute to making Serbia a proud country of citizens, regardless of political conviction or any other personality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17235	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93? The word has Minister Milan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the end I can only express my satisfaction, because I did not expect this kind of consent, regarding the basic idea of this law. I am glad that the MPs in most parts, except for one parliamentary group, practically supported the idea. This law will create the basis for having one responsible, modern, efficient and cheap political system, political parties and election processes that will, above all, answer to voters instead of responding to political parties. I'm glad we detected only three or four minor dilemmas, they're not essential character, and I hope that on the Justice and Administration Committee, as a parent board, we will remove these few dilemmas. Once again, I can confirm that we will seriously discuss raising the censors, which would probably be appropriate for our later idea to allow for direct passing to the election register on political parties. We will also consider once again the question of asking the founder's name on the site. I understand the reasons against, I still think the reasons for "yes" are overwhelming, but I don't think that's the topic around which we need to differ, it's a matter of more technical character. As far as the issues of the territorial organisation referred to in Articles 17(4) and 5 are concerned, if most parties think it is too much of the country's incursion in the organisation of political parties, I am ready to accept the amendment. I think that with these three or four amendments, we can say that there is no reason for any parliamentary group, except for the LDP parliamentary group, which essentially opposes the adoption of such a law, for all other parliamentary groups, from the SRS, to DS, G17 plus, the SPS, the PUPS and the JS, which make up the ruling coalition, there is no reason that we all together do not support such a law. Thank you again for this debate, which was primarily competent and in line with what we wanted to achieve with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-08-0.u17237	I thank and conclude the original search. For today, we are finishing our work and continuing work tomorrow at 10.00 hours by discussing the draft law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Chambers and the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Act on the Insurance and Financing of Foreign Trade. Thank you.
