ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a Law on textbooks and other educational means. The essence of my amendment is to replace the word "book" with the word "bookbooks". In fact, I did this for a reason that this law on textbooks and other teaching means to comply with the law that we discussed yesterday, means the law on the foundations of the education and education system. This law on the basis of the education and education system provides that there can be more textbooks from one subject and I did so for that reason. The explanation provided by the minister, which was delivered by the ministry, says the amendment is unnecessary, as the legal solution predicts that there can be more textbooks. If so, then I must remind Mr. Minister of the Law on textbooks and other teaching means, where it is said – the mandatory part of the textbook set is the basic textbook, workbook, etc. If so, then the law should provide for a basic textbook. If we have more textbooks, then we don't just know which is the basic, and the basic textbook can only be one. That is why I believe that the government and the minister could accept this amendment, because it essentially does not change the concept of the law or interfere with anything else, except for making it clearer and more precise to define the things that are here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25795	National MP Radica Jocic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25796	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, the amendment that I submitted to Article 2 after Article 9 is added to the new attitude of the 10th, which reads: The textbook, the training kit and the second teaching tool and the help must not have content that is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, nor must it contain advertising messages and advertisements." The explanation of the government we have received is that the amendment is not accepted because the contents of the textbooks are in line with the curriculum and the programme, and the curricula and the programme are adopted in accordance with the law and must not be contrary to the Constitution, which basically means that this is understood. Mr. Minister, many things in Serbia are unfortunately "understanding". It is understood that children should also learn from better textbooks, which of course is not the case so far. It is understood that these textbooks are adapted to the age of children, and they are not. Not to repeat the example I used in the discussion in principle, the one with halfs, quarters, and candy, can give an excellent example of the first - grade textbook, which contains a sentence made up of even 56 words. We know that a sentence for this age must not have more than seven words. So 56 words are in that sentence. I'm not sure, Mr. Minister, appreciating your intelligence that you or I can memorize a 56-word sentence, not children in the first grade. So, we all have something to say. It's also an excellent example of the ministry's failure. For example, here we are, since it is understood that everything is in accordance with the Constitution, it is understood that the proposal for the Statute of Vojvodina will also be in accordance with the Constitution, so it is not. The truth has not yet been adopted, but in the form it is, it is understood that it is in accordance with the Constitution, yet it is not. Unfortunately, there's always something to be said, it shouldn't be understood, it should be written. I'm afraid that someone will forget about the constitution, besides all the laws they need to read, that they'll forget what it says in the Constitution and eventually miss the Ministry. This is not a criticism at the moment, Mr. Minister. (President: no more time, you spoke for a little longer than two minutes. I don't have time for any more parliamentary groups at all? (President: No more parliamentary group of time, you've spent it all. Can I just finish the sentence? (President: There is another minute of authorised representative only. It's not a dispute. Finish your sentence. ) So I see no problem in accepting this amendment, because in no case can it break the law, but it can only fix it, which I hope you will accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25797	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25798	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it is known that the book for many years has been a dominant tool in the course, practically since the invention of the printing and Gutenberg era, and so far it has remained irreplaceable, and that the textbook would be good and have great use of value, it is necessary to satisfy both cognitive and learning opportunities of students, so that it has certain practical, i.e. axiological values. Therefore, in this draft law, Article 4 refers to the principle of equal opportunities and prohibitions of discrimination, so I have proposed one change in this regard. In fact, Article 4 says – textbooks and other teaching tools should be able to implement the principles of equal opportunities for girls and boys with their content and shape. I suggest that the words "girls and boys" are replaced by the word "teachers", because it continues to be about students who are subjects of education and education, not girls and boys, who can be preschool age and are not covered by school education. The second reason why I proposed this is so that this law would comply with the law on the basis of the education and education system, because the law says that all terms in this law are expressed in grammatical masculine and that they involve the natural male and female species to which they apply. In order for these two laws to be compatible, I suggest that this amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25799	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, Mr. Saviæu.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25800	Dear Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. The draft law on textbooks and other teaching means, by adding one sentence to the second position, to the publisher, or to the person governed by the textbooks, to some guidelines. Here the government responded that it is the publisher's interest to provide quality textbooks and that the law should not limit the publisher's choice of editors. Of course, my idea and my amendment didn't even aim to limit the editor's election, but my goal was to ensure that the more quality textbook and what I suggested with the amendment would certainly help make the textbook more quality. Namely, this is about publishers. First of all, we must know, and therefore I have submitted the amendment, that the primary objective of the publisher is not to make the textbook as much as possible, of course it is, but the primary objective of each publisher is profit, and if the profit is the primary goal, because these are people who are practically engaged in business, and we will see, from the time that remains available as an authorised representative, I will say and prove that this is the case, then I think that this amendment should be adopted and that it would still contribute in some way to making the textbooks more quality and that the choice of editors by the editors is better.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25801	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Here you go, Mr. Myalyevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25802	The Honored Presidency, in Article 6(1), (2), following the words ‘Editor’, are added the words ‘which is a proven expert’. The amendment proposes adding those words in terms of determining the qualification of editors. The explanation of the Government is as follows – the amendment is not accepted because it is an interest of the publisher to provide quality textbooks, which also includes a competent editor with the highest degree of education and appropriate work experience, and the law does not need to limit the publisher's choice of editors. That's what it would be like for us to live in an orderly country. However, gentlemen, the publisher's interest is to provide as high-quality textbooks as possible. However, the publisher's interest is also to sell produced textbooks, of course, and to produce as many textbooks as possible. I quote all this because our country is in a state of wild capitalism or even more precisely banditism. Your coalition partners are responsible for the environment in which we are, and this is an uncontrollable and unscrupulous race for making as much money as possible. In such a situation, of course, quality falls. Because of all of this, I find it necessary to make a more precise legal provision, and you yourself are aware of how much we have produced universities, and even some private universities, and who gets the titles of master and doctor of science. And here in the O.R., we've got some of them who graduate three months from New Sad, and they're in the master's department, and they're in six doctorates. Now imagine one such expert signing as a reviewer or as a writer a textbook on which to educate generations and generations of future experts on certain issues. Because of this, we believe that the law should make a more precise provision for expertise, for those behind textbooks, for how many scientific papers, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25803	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Here you go, Mrs. Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25804	On the proposal for a Law on textbooks and other teaching means, in the section of the permit to issue textbooks in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6(1), in order to add a new point 3) which reads – at least five years of experience in publishing activities and if it operates positively – to the following amendments to Article 6(1) of the Rules of Procedure and other teaching agents in the part of the textbooks' license to issue textbooks in front of the SRS parliamentary group. In the light of the amendments, it is said that these amendments protect the publishing profession, whose work provides quality and operational textbooks, protects the scientific and professional quality of textbooks against quasin science, non-professional and non-pedagogical influences. I believe that this amendment should have been accepted because it is normal for a certain experience and expertise in publishing work to be required by law, of course our textbooks would have been better quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25805	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Jon Magda Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Goran Mihajlović. The government and the Education Committee accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. Members of the 7th Amendment in the same text were submitted by the international MPs Jon Magda and Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Zlata Đerić and Aleksandra Ilic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljević, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25806	Article 11(1) adds the words "or direct involvement of the author", we delete it. The amendment proposes eradicating the above words in the Bill's proposal to avoid possible abuses, although you yourself know that publishers have a certain monopoly and do some kind of abuse against the authors and by captivating the text, they hold it for several months or several authors collect their texts, and then it is processed and that it be published to one of their authors and that it stands as a signator of a particular textbook or book. Because of all these things and possible abuses that are actually happening in publishing, and whoever is a little concerned with publishing knows how many authors are in a subordinate position compared to publishers and how many publishers who may not have read 10 books in their lives since they finished primary school, and today they have printing and sales spaces, and they issue dozens of titles a year, and that is precisely why I show that in this article and in many other members there should be even more specific and precise protection of the authors. Because someone's been schooling for decades, becoming an expert, behind them are dozens and dozens of learned works, and then someone who's graduated from a butcher's school, and he's lucky to have a printing and a registered publishing activity, can blackmail someone who spent 20 years in some studies, etc. I think the law has to be even more precise at some points.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25807	On Article 12 of the amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, Mr. Saviæ. You don't want to. The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Mrs. Zlata Djeric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25808	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Honorable President, we have tabled an amendment to Article 14(2) to add the words "and according to the prepared and processed opinion of the educational workers". I don't think it's as important anywhere as it is in the school system to consult as much as possible and to include the expert opinion of those who use textbooks most, whose textbooks are actually basic tools or tools, which are educational workers. They are the most competent and most invited to judge textbooks precisely because in practice we did not only have missing textbooks, but it happens to have a textbook with a material error. When you have a textbook with a material error, then you have a problem and authority, you have a problem with the falsification of the matter you teach. It significantly compromises the area in which you find yourself at that moment. You know, when a child is found between the authority of teachers and teachers and what is written in the textbook, it's hard to define in that case who he's going to trust. It's very hard for you to explain that someone who writes books can make a mistake. This must not happen at that age. It's one of the things that makes me think we should consult the profession, the field contractor, as we might say. As for the market itself, the legality of the market, unfortunately, the production of textbooks does not guarantee quality and quality raising, but is very often guaranteed by corruption and very often provides itself with that kind of market. We know the book isn't a profitable tool, but the textbook still is. In printing, in this production of printing, printers and publishers, the textbook is one of the few sources of possible larger and more significant revenues, and this is not where funds are chosen to reach a safe market. We know how much the market is, we know what the circulation of textbooks are, and in this state, it's not a minor element. What I was talking about, and again I have to draw attention to both Mr. Minister and Associates at the Ministry, is that this number of textbooks that children have to wear is being reduced, that children are being distracted, that we really do, and that only happens for years, in the first, third, fifth, seventh classes of mandatory systematic examinations, and to make public information about how many children in whom they grow up have problems with the curved spine, how many children with flat feet, etc., all those problems that come from excessive daily exposure to the excessive load of the spine. So we need to be the target of an educated child, not a maimed child. Of course, our goal should be a healthy and happy child. That's what textbooks and these sets need to be taken care of. For a long time, we've been arguing in the very enlightenment of whether it's meant to have a textbook in which it's written, it's so-called. Workbooks, it's a textbook that can't be used in many generations. So he ends his century with one issue, with one year of use, and it's a textbook whose use needs to be reconsidered, and to what extent and in which cases his use is justified. Since everyone in the workbooks has found a fantastic source of profit, precisely because of this technology of its use, it is something that needs to be examined, checked, what I like to say, to question. The meaning of the textbook is not small, the influence of textbooks on child consciousness is not irrelevant. That is why I welcome the adoption of this law, but indeed nowhere like this law requires strict control of what the title of the textbook can bear and how much its power is. Through this law and through the National Council, which should give an opinion on textbooks, it is certainly necessary to take into account what is our national interest and how to raise it in young generations. So this is something to build on and state policy, in any case, because you know when Nebriha went to Elizabeth I, Queen of Spain, as the most powerful weapon in conquering the new world, you know what he offered her, the grammar of the Castile language, and he said -- that's how we're going to win the new world. He was right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25809	Mrs. Djeric, time over two minutes scheduled for the amendment do you want to go on behalf of the time of you as a representative of the parliamentary group or from the time of the group? From an authorised representative, all right. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Here you go, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25810	Ladies and gentlemen of Honored Citizens, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia-SNS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 15, which says that the publisher submits a request to the Ministry for the approval of textbooks within 60 days of the day of the adoption of the new curriculum. In addition to the request, the publisher submits in three copies an emborate with a graphic, visual and technical manuscript of the textbook. The Ministry shall provide the Bureau with the manuscript of the textbook, with the documentation referred to in Article 2, in order to provide an expert assessment of the quality of manuscripts and textbooks.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25811	The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25812	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, to repeat what we said during the principle debate. The impression of DSS MPs is that this, unfortunately, from that previous law, is a correct law, I would say with good intentions to regulate an area which, in my own experience, I know is very difficult to regulate. I believe that time will show something that none of us right now see, that there are some things that are likely to be fixed in some perspective, but the fact is that this was a completely unregulated area where the past has been happening, I'm not going to say years, but decades, all kinds of things. I've written 13 textbooks for different categories of schools and colleges, and I know very well what's in publishing work when it comes to textbooks. The DSS has filed a total of five amendments to this bill, we'll talk about them. In this case, we have submitted an amendment to Article 15(1) and I must say immediately, it is doubtless that this attitude 1 should be changed. Our amendment has not been accepted, but Mr. Magda's amendment has been accepted, which is essentially the same. The DSS is a serious party regardless and it is important for us to fix the law, regardless of who is the author of the amendment that has been adopted, so there is no need for me to further explain this amendment to you, because Mr Magda's amendment practically corrects a very bad attitude, it is not worth criticizing now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25813	The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Mrs. Jocic, do you want to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25814	On the draft law, in the part of approving the textbook, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 15(1) where the number "60" is replaced by the number "90", so that the first position of this member would read - that the publisher submits a request to the Ministry for the approval of textbooks within 90 days of the date of adoption of the curriculum. As with a previous colleague, I think the deadline of 60 days is really short, although changes in the teaching program may be minor, so in such cases it may be possible to make a new textbook for this long time, but changes in the program can be rooted, so that the 60-day period is really short for the textbook to be of quality. The deadline would have to be longer if we wanted that textbook to be consistent with the new curriculum, in order to avoid minor errors that could have a very negative impact on the quality of the textbook.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25815	The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jon Magda, Dragomir Cimeša, Miodrag Stoilovic and Aleksandar Jankovic. The government and the Education Committee accepted this amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. The government and the Education Committee accepted this amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Mrs. Zlata Djeric wants a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25816	In Article 16, we predicted that Section 3 and Section 4 should be deleted, because we feel it is not good to assume by law that the Bureau does not do its job for which it was established. In that case, the Bureau doesn't exist, the Bureau has to do its jobs on time. In the event of such failures, it is necessary to review the reasons for the existence of an institution, because the institution does not make one man, it is an institution that was founded to do its jobs. That would be the same as saying -- if school doesn't share books in June and doesn't conclude grades, then the minister should do it. The law cannot provide for a much smaller task not to be done on time, so we believe that paragraphs 3 and 4 should be deleted, because otherwise we do not need seductions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25817	The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Jon Magda, Dragomir Cimeša, Miodrag Stoilovic and Aleksandar Jankovic. The government and the Education Committee accepted this amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banović and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25818	I'm sorry that we were short of time on the Education Committee yesterday, so we couldn't go all the way around this amendment. Now I'm going to try and ask Mr. Minister to reconsider whether this amendment will accept. I think you should accept it. It's a member who defines the procedure for reviewing textbooks, or defines a conflict of interest who can, who can't be a reviewer. The draft law states: To prevent conflicts of interest in the process of professional evaluation of the quality of textbook manuscripts, the person participating in the procedure sign a statement before the start of work (now be careful) that he is not the author of the textbook, or that he is not with the author of the manuscript or publisher who has a license connected person. All this stuff that's written here is standing and it's supposed to stand, but it's not covered by a single case. You're starting from the assumption that if I'm a manuscript author or coauthor I can't be a reviewer, or if I'm with an author in a related relationship I can't be a reviewer. It's all right, but there's another thing, I can be the author of an already existing competitive textbook, and I can't be a reviewer, because I have an interest in writing a negative review. You covered it up, to say, positive hooking, but you didn't include negative swings. We have proposed an amendment to add -- that it is not the author of an existing competitive textbook. Yesterday you told the board that it was covered by this member of the law, but I don't see it covered. Please consider fixing the text of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25819	The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. He doesn't want a word. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does he want a word? Here you go, Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25820	Article 21 defines the authority to approve textbooks in the territory of the AP and says the AP authority responsible for education activities etc. Approves textbooks 1) for the languages of national minorities and 2) for certain subjects of interest for national minorities, in agreement with the Minister. The DSS thinks these textbooks should be approved by the minister. The scope of the textbook is one very specific area and I think that under the same conditions for all to be approved by the minister's textbooks. I'll explain what that means. According to what's written here, textbooks for example. Albanians in southern Serbia or Muslims in Sandzak, or for Vlahe in eastern Serbia are approved by the minister, and textbooks for example Slovaks or Hungarians living in the AP Vojvodina approve the province. We don't see why it should make any difference. And these textbooks, in our deep confidence, should be approved by the minister, may consult, and I believe that every minister would do so, the competent authorities of the AP. We have suggested that this member be deleted and there is no need to regulate this in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25821	On the 21st amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Zoran Babic. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25822	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS, I have tabled an amendment to Article 21. Proposal for a Law on textbooks and other educational means. This amendment, as counterpart Shami said, foresees that the minister responsible for education affairs, not the AP, approves the issue and use of textbooks in the AP territory, and, on a proposal from the competent council and the previously obtained opinion of the National Minority Council. The reasons for accepting this amendment lie in two facts: Article 13. The proposal for a law on national minority councils is made clear: ''If educational and educational work is achieved in the language of the national minority, the National Education Council proposes to the Minister responsible for Educational Affairs to grant authorisation for the use of textbooks and teaching resources whose contents reflect the specificities of the national minority with the previous consent of the National Council. ''Mr. Minister, are you sitting in the same government of the Republic of Serbia with Mr. Chiplic, who for the same jurisdiction predicted you, and you predicted the authority of the AP? Is this perhaps another example of dysharmony in the government of the Republic of Serbia? For the irony to be greater, both of these draft laws, and the draft law on textbooks and other teaching means, and the draft law on national minority councils are in the procedure at the same session of the National Assembly. The second reason you should accept this amendment is the fact that the elections for the national council, under Article 29(1). The draft law on national councils of national minorities, based on the principles of freedom of choice, equality of electoral law, periodicality of elections and the principle of secret voting. The members of the national councils of minorities do not have to be professionally related to this area, so I cannot even propose the publishing of textbooks, but I can give opinions on the approval of textbooks, which is why I call on you to accept this amendment in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25823	The MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banović and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25824	It is, of course, the same idea that we have explained to Article 21. In fact, here in Article 24 we are talking about a solution to the approval of textbooks in the territory of an autonomous province. The whole member reads as follows - the Autonomous Region Authority responsible for education affairs provides a solution on the approval of textbooks in the territory of the Autonomous Province, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 22 and 23 of this Act. I don't see how that's supposed to be done by the entity of an autonomous province. We suggested that this member be deleted as unnecessary. I repeat, it is very important that in this overall process of publishing the textbook the minister has the last word. You know, these textbooks are just finally a lot and it's not some extra job for Mr. Minister, no matter who the minister is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25825	The 28th Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Riza Halimi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banović and Aleksandar Pejcic. Mr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25826	Article 28 speaks of the approval of a foreign textbook. Right now, the DSS has no problem with foreign textbooks. I know there's a certain odymic in our public according to foreign textbooks. However, it should be cautious in some areas if there are areas where history or literature would be interpreted in some other way, etc. There are some areas that are sensitive and where to be careful, but there are many areas where it doesn't matter if the textbook is written in Serbia, Sweden, China, Argentina. Newton's laws of gravity are the same everywhere if it's physics, or some trigonometry is also everywhere if it's math, etc. So we have no problem with foreign textbooks. However, in line with what we have discussed on the previous two amendments, we have suggested that paragraph 3 be deleted in this article – the authority responsible for education activities in the AP, on the reasoned request of the relevant expert body at school, can be approved by the textbook for the relevant subject matter and class in the AP territory. Wait, let me get back to the beginning. For example, a textbook of mathematics should be approved in the Vlach language, which someone wrote on the side, it will be done by the minister in accordance with this law, and if the math textbook is written in Russian, then the AP will do so. I don't see any logic here. I think the sole responsibility here is to have a minister and the AP has nothing to look for. Still, there's a problem here next. It says – the authority on the territory of the AP will, on a reasoned request from the relevant expert body at school. You know what, the approval of textbooks goes according to some procedure, can't be the measuring opinion of some teacher at some village school. It could also be a country school, so we understand each other. Therefore, I don't think this is well arranged and I repeat that the DSS insists that all textbooks on Serbia's territory, according to the same procedure that is provided and described correctly, do the minister responsible for the education affairs, in this case the minister of education.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25827	Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jon Magda, Dragomir Cimeša, Miodrag Stoilovic and Aleksandar Jankovic. The government and the Education Committee accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find it has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25828	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have submitted would mean adding a new point 6 point to Article 31 after point 6) which reads: "Teachers' Handbooks". To the truth, Mr. Minister, did you foresee this by means of "other means of teaching". That's what I predicted to be under the low-end textbooks. You disagreed. Let me remind you of what's meant by these low-priced textbooks. So, textbooks in the languages of national minorities. Furthermore, a low-level textbook is suitable for students with developmental and disability disorders. I can't help but remind you that you haven't corrected, although the SNS MPs have insisted, a mistake in putting especially gifted children in trouble. Let me remind you, this is Article 77. The law on the foundation of the education system, and that's unacceptable. The situation that was before must not be allowed. I'm going back to the teacher manual story. Now, for example, it happens that in one school, two classes of the same class use different textbooks. What kind of problem is that for kids who go from school to school or from town to town? And the question is, um, what are different textbooks, em teachers have a different system of lectures, kids just don't have a chance to get along in a new school.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25829	The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Mijaljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25830	On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to change and read in Article 32(3) – make the textbook available to the sales network, no later than 15 days before the start of the school year. The reason is – the amendment proposes to amend the above-mentioned bill's position because the scratch showed that a large number of parents get textbooks to their children significantly before the school year begins. Parents should not be allowed to expose themselves to new costs when the school year begins. So, one too many reasons. The government responded – the amendment is not accepted because the state is obliged to provide textbooks for all students on the day of the school year. The bill provides that the textbook should be made available to the sales network at the latest on the day of the start of the school year, which does not exclude the possibility of the textbook being available before this deadline. Of course, but don't forget we live in Serbia, where we have a manners to do everything on the last day or the last minute of some scheduled deadline. Because of the high supply needs, it could take two or three weeks. We keep looking at these pictures where the columns and columns of parents and children are in front of a bookshop on the fifth, sixth, tenth, 15th, and September 20th to obtain some textbooks. And don't forget that it's the time when people came back from their vacations, that it's the time to provide the needs for autumn and winter, so the heat, the winter, and the rest. I don't think our families are in such an economic situation that we can settle all these needs within two or three weeks. So, you should take a little time to unload some things where you can. So this deadline should be moved at least 15 days earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25831	National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted the amendment to Article 33. Here you go, Mr. Michaelovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25832	It is normal for all who are involved in writing, whether by printing, whether by distribution, or by selling textbooks to have a natural tendency to issue this textbook in the largest circulation. However, there are special circumstances such as textbooks in the languages of national minorities, then viewing textbooks or textbooks for special items or special purposes, which for understandable reasons cannot be printed in large circulations, and in these situations it is necessary to print them in a much smaller circulation, which is sometimes economically invaluable for publishers and these are so-called so-called ‘species’. Low-cost textbooks. Since most publishers avoid printing them, it is prescribed that, in certain circumstances, when the publisher's competition is called, it must also be selected when all of the prescribed procedures, which my colleague Sladjan Mijaljević spoke of under the previous amendment, then Article 33. The draft law on textbooks says the selected low-titration textbook publishers have an obligation to publish them at the latest on the day of the start of the school year. Since teaching is an organized process, both in space and in time, we suggest that this word - publishes, replaces them with a word - to make them available to the sales network, because it is not enough for the textbook to be published only, but on the day of the school year to be ready for sale, in order to be available to the users to which it is intended. I therefore hope that Mr. Minister will reconsider this amendment because it is quite logical and is in the interest of the student who will use this textbook.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25833	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 36th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment, so I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jon Magda, Dragomir Cimeša, Miodrag Stoilovic and Aleksandar Jankovic. The government and the Education Committee accepted the amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want a final word or someone who hasn't used his right? Mr. Shami, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25834	I won't speak for long, just to remind Mr. Secretary that he owes me an answer for the amendment to the fourth law we discussed yesterday. Obviously, you have no intention of introducing a provision whereby children should learn patriotism, historical, cultural and social stories of the country of Serbia, I have paraphrased the amendment a little. It's obviously your definitive attitude, but I'd very much like to hear the explanation, so please if you don't mind giving it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25835	Mr. Lightfoot.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25836	Madam President, Mr. Minister, the honourable MPs, we said that we would support this law because it practically sanctions the already existing situation, and that is that there is no longer a monopoly for the publishing of textbooks. The social, economic system in this country has changed and there are many private publishers. This law actually regulates a very important area that doesn't seem so important to laymen on the side, but it's essential, because it's textbooks from which our children learn and teach everyone in this country. It doesn't matter what textbooks they learn, who writes them, under which conditions these textbooks are approved and this law for the first time regulates one area that, hand to heart, for the last eight or nine years, is chaotic, who is allowed to publish, who is all about publishing textbooks, because publishing textbooks is a very profitable job. Every year, there's so much printing and so much printing. Publishing is one of the best jobs, if you can meet the conditions. That law was beyond necessary and it's very good that this law was done. It was done in a way that, in addition to these changes that were adopted, it was very difficult to have a fundamental remark. Because what's coming out of this is that the Ministry does a much harder thing, and that's the criteria for the quality of textbooks. What is quality, because it is the next step that is very difficult, both formal and essential conditions that the textbook might be considered good, because it depends on the enormous quality of teaching. I hope the Ministry in some reasonable time, I know that there's one group that does that, I know that the man who should be running that job, one of my senior colleagues in the psychology department, is more than competent for that topic. The quality of the textbook is of great importance to this country. There were MPs who pointed to some nonsense in the textbooks, starting with the fact that you can have stupidity and inaccuracy, to the fact that they are not pedagogical and correct, to not respect the developmental intellectual stages of the child, to ask the child to learn something he cannot learn, given the level of his intellectual achievement. I think it's of enormous importance. I know the Ministry knows that, I say this more because of the public and the cause, or congregation debates, but the next important step for this country is to get once and formalized criteria, or to determine exactly what the textbook can and cannot have. We often talk about ideological confusion, and I end up with that in our textbooks. This specifically refers to the textbooks of historical science, but there are many things in other textbooks. I'll give you an example. We've passed the Anti-discrimination Act. Do you know that the analysis of our Institute of Psychology shows that some textbooks very strongly support the discrimination of women, and then you have that women are always in the professions of housewives, and the man is a doctor, engineer, director. These are things that need to be taken seriously, what image of sexes, or differences we make in textbooks. These things are modern, necessary to this society that we must take great care of. By the way, that's where grandma always turns out to be an old lady in black, and as you know, Grandma doesn't look like that anymore. Some things have to change, so I'd like to make another request to the Ministry to do those criteria as soon as possible, because they are a direct extension of this law which is the basis of everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25837	Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25838	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, just a short few suggestions. We certainly expect this law to be followed in its application, to be consistently applied, and what is important to you as Minister and to your Ministry is to follow textbooks and their lives on the ground. What I have suggested to you through one amendment means that you regularly inform yourself in the profession or through the profession, through those who use textbooks. That information is important to you. They also direct publishers and textbook authors what the textbook should look like later, because the textbook, we already mentioned, will agree with the previous speaker, certainly forms awareness. That's why the textbook isn't a book. He's a textbook. His name says it. Of course, attention is paid to that Parisian world or paralegals, which appear at a small school door, bring great incomes, are very problematic, and you have an interesting job that happened anyway and which has not justified the profits that it has made. These are the collections for the eighth grade entrance exam. We all know how real it cost. After a few years of repeating the same collection, it only changes two or three questions, unwarrantedly expensive for parents, and unwarrantedly large revenues brought to those who printed them, so that you should pay attention to it, believe that parents have recalculated it, and the number of textbooks, and the number of printed collections and their double payment, so pay attention to such things. They'll thank you both both the profession and the parents.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25839	The word is Mr. Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25840	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I cannot help but notice that you and your team who worked on these textbooks, particularly in the analysis of amendments submitted by the MPs, have made a great effort and this is also saying that you have adopted a large number of amendments, including, of course, a large number of amendments to the SRS. I'm not surprised that such a large number of amendments to these laws were passed, because the educators were educated people and they wrote these amendments here, with the idea of really fixing this law. The fact that you've adopted this number of amendments doesn't automatically mean that the laws are good. First of all, I have objections to this law on textbooks and other teaching tools. I'm not going to say the law isn't necessary, and I'm not going to say it's necessary. His basic flaw and fundamental flaw is that he, from an extreme that was not good, went to a completely different extreme, which is even worse. How's the publishing work going in Serbia today? Namely, every publisher in Serbia today hires an author who will work on a particular textbook. He makes a deal with him. The author, after a contract, writes a text. After that, when the text is finished, a reviewer is found and when the job is done, then all of this is technically formed and the textbook is printed and placed on the market. Of course, every teacher, every teacher, every teacher, has the right, according to this law, to recommend according to his assessment to his students who will use the textbook. However, I must mention here that much less attention is paid to other things, not to the very essence and quality of textbooks, which is very important. I talked about these things a little bit more in the principle debate. I'm really going to have to mention it here, and I'm going to be stuck on history books again, because history is, above all, national history, the memory of a nation and a country. History textbooks, historical atlas and historical readings must be in line with one country's national aspirations. As I said at first, I don't mind the law being passed. I don't mind that there's competition and monopolies breaking up in this area. We had opportunities to see that for years the same publishers and, worse still, the same authors wrote textbooks from certain subjects. So some other people, who may have been more quality and competent for all of this, couldn't get into this business. I have to notice that what we have in this area today is more like the wild west than a single game among publishers. This may not be so terrible that it is not so perfiduous today that it manipulates the most sensitive things about textbooks, especially national history. The consequences of history textbooks can be devastating both by the people and by the state. Here, first of all, I mean the textbooks of some private publishers. Mr. Minister, there's something you need to do to fix the situation at least when the history textbooks are at stake. The textbook of national history is not the same as any other textbook. I don't mind, let state and private publishers compete in who will make a better, more diverse textbook from any other subject, but the history textbook must have a special treatment and he must, first of all, have a large number of scanners and consent to a number of professional people from this area before being put into circulation. It won't be terrible, let's just say, if our children don't learn, and so did colleagues of Shami, or they're wrong to learn some theorems from mathematics, some mathematical formula, a geographical term, etc. They don't learn enough foreign language, so it won't be a big deal if our kids don't learn everything. I know from experience that in some parts of our country, people don't do the best work. It will be, believe me, both terrible and tragic if the children don't know who we are, what we are and where we come from. In view of what kind of textbooks we have and what textbooks our children are facing, this one may not be threatened tomorrow or at some reasonable time, but in some perspective danger. Private publishers of school textbooks take over other people's ideas solutions and take over parts of textbooks or complete textbooks used in other countries, such as Croatia, Slovenia and Germany. One such example, I mentioned it in the principle debate, is a history textbook for the sixth grade of elementary school. I won't mention the authors here, because I mentioned those authors when it was a principle debate. I will only mention the publisher, the publisher is the House of Publishing "Klet". It is reportedly from Belgrade, but the main thing is that it is a Slovenian, rather said German firm. I'm really going to have to do this again, which I was talking about, to support some examples from this textbook. I have no objection to the publishing house mentioned, nor to the authors, it is similar with any other publishing books. On page 19, there is a lesson from the Russian Principality and only one page is dedicated to Russia when it comes to this book, and it is about all of European history. That's not why I said that. Here in this picture is a picture of the symbols of Russia, which is the temple of Vasili Blazen in the Red Square in Moscow. But beneath this picture is not the name of the Temple of Vasili the Blessed, but is the name of the Temple of Christ Savior in Moscow. I could understand that there's a church in a smaller country, but this is still a picture that we can see on our TV every day, because there's no information show that at least one news story comes from Russia, Moscow and we don't see this on our screens. I don't think this is so random. I just saw it, the previous page, and then it's special here and it says, "The Union, they explain to the children what the Union is, watch out for the children of the sixth grade," says the Union represents united Christian churches under the supreme authority of the Roman Pope. I really don't think it's necessary for kids in the sixth grade to learn about what the Union is, what union is. I'm 50 years old, I've graduated from college, through my entire education I haven't, believe me, met with the concept of union, and I believe most of you who are older than me or a certain number of years younger than me. I don't know what it's like today. Speaking of this textbook, on page 123 of this textbook, the teaching unit is being processed -- the clergy, and then you see, a picture of the Roman pope, a picture of a Catholic monk, a picture of a Catholic monastery in Hungary. I guess we all know enough that we're Orthodox country, most Orthodox country, I apologize. Not to mention, there are many other things, let's say on page 150, last time I spoke, there is a picture of Pope Honori the Third, who is said to have crowned Stefan Nemanjevni, and with the text, it is said - after the aforementioned coronation of Serbia has grown very much and Serbia has then gained a kind of international recognition. I really must say here in front of the MPs that I thought these words were a newer date. I didn't know these words date back to the German era. I don't think it's exactly like that that someone here tried to turn history upside down. There's a problem with other textbooks. I wouldn't want to be so maligned as to say that the authors of this textbook didn't know or know so much history, but I think it's primarily about the translation of a foreign textbook. Of course, this was the easiest, quick translation, or translation, and images are given, illustrations are given, and this is how the task obtained by the publisher is accomplished. I don't want to say anything against the authors and the publishing house, because maybe the textbook isn't bad when it comes to the state of Slovenia or the state of Germany, but when it comes to the state of Serbia, it's completely inappropriate, and above all, it's harmful. Mr. Minister, I have to tell you, you may be wearing a better and expensive suit than I am, but if I were to wear your suit now, believe me, in your suit I'd look just ridiculous. So by studying other people's history, which is not suitable for us, we can only look ridiculous, both in front of ourselves and in front of others. It is not only a problem in these textbooks of history, of course it is the biggest and most obvious, but it also occurs with other textbooks. As I said, the copying, or translation of textbooks from other countries, primarily Croatia and Slovenia, and as you do with European laws, you have literally applied this in practice to textbooks. So one of the publishing houses, which now accuses competition of unauthorizedly taking over other people's idea solutions to the ideas of the textbook, is the Publishing House "Creative Center". The same is claimed for the Eduka Publishing House, in which a textbook for nature and a society of strips that shows a certain period of time has been copied from the textbook of the second publisher and set upside down. The leading Croatian editor of the " School Book" textbook in Serbia performs under the name "BIGZ", so the technical education textbook for the fifth grade of the primary school, these two publishers are completely identical, but in the Serbian version of the textbook, I also mentioned it in the principle debate, a traffic controller who regulates traffic at the intersection is in Croatia, not in Serbia's uniform. It's similar with textbooks from other subjects. Let's just say somewhere there are names of personal names and geographical concepts being replaced. So in one textbook, the town of Županja is inhabited, we all know that it is in Croatia, replaced by the name of one populated town from Serbia - Lazarjevac. Worse than all that, I will end up, because my time is slowly running out, schools use textbooks that are not approved by the Ministry of Education, and publishing houses that are primarily profit motives, which is why I have submitted amendments to this law, also assure school directors, both teachers and teachers, that the procedure is in progress and that this is the final thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25841	After we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, you will be contacted by a proposing representative, Mr Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25842	Dear fellow Members of the People, before I move on to the content of the Law on textbooks and other teaching means, I would like to say a few sentences about a question that has been raised here today in the debate, but beyond this context. He was appointed by a colleague named Shami. I just want to say in public, about the introduction of the word "patriotism" into the content of the law on the foundations of education and education systems. Mr. Shami, believe me, you're knocking on the open door, but you haven't answered a few questions that I asked you last Saturday, very loudly and clearly, because unfortunately over the past 19 years we've been in a position to interpret the contents of that word differently and to feel it differently on our skin. Professor Micunovic said something about it yesterday. I've also had very different negative experiences related to the content of that word. I am a member of a political party, who lived to be declared a traitor after 2000. I was in a situation that from members of your parliamentary group, then as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, someone was sending me to the place of birth. I wasn't like him obviously for some goals that were then promoted. We will not teach our children to love this country, because the patriotism, which according to Vujaklia, is love for the earth, by using one word more or less than we will establish a system of values, which we will know what we are, who we are, where we are, what history, what our present is and what we learn to travel the future. I'm totally convinced of this. I believe that the law has many, many good things, which absolutely future generations can direct to and as they respect, love this country and protect their identity, and of course they are all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and promote the values of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, both their national identity and the identity of members of a particular minority group -- but all to respect the state of Serbia's membership and to affirm the state of Serbia. It seems to me that we, let it be my personal position and my personal mistake, as the state took a big step last year by forming a government in that direction, because simply by forming a new government, we have at least put a lot of things in a different plan by then. I may be wrong, but let it be my personal delusion, but I thought I should tell you this. (The People's Messenger Zoran Shami, from the place: I thank you. It was important to hear you. ) When it comes to the law on textbooks and other teaching means, I think it's a good law. This is the law that for the first time since 93 regulates in a complete and comprehensive way the procedure for approving the release of manuscripts. Why? We had a state publisher whose position was governed by the 93th law, and we had private publishers, whose way of working was governed by the 2004 law, one of the provisions relating to the view. And we had a situation that the position of one was arranged in one way, and the position of the institution on the other. We also need private publishers, and we need the Bureau. Both have absolutely their own meaning, content, and there is a need for their work. The Bureau deals with other things, and jobs that others don't do, at least so far, maybe someone will work in the future -- they're low-level textbooks. Once again, private publishers have their own meaning. As minister, I must say that I faced this problem last year, about late August, when I was neither guilty nor obliged to find out that the previous minister had banned the use of 100,000 textbooks from private publishers. By scratching on that problem, I realized it was textbooks that didn't pass the expert verification of the Ministry of Education. The only sin, I don't think it was a sin to tell you right away, my colleague's predecessor was to review those textbooks from first to sixth, and the private publishers printed those books in January, without professional approval, without the Ministry's approval. The media has promoted views that the minister, i.e. the ministry, does not want to allow these textbooks to be taught. Then, I must be honest, I learned the importance of this problem and how important it is - for me as Minister of Education is important as an educational question, for others as an educational one, but for some as a completely economic question. Someone mentioned it, and it doesn't need to be ignored -- we have 905,000 students in primary and secondary schools, and if you take that as a set of textbooks from 30 to 50 to 60 euros -- here you go, multiply this number yourself with the price of the set, and you'll see what money it's about. But we are not interested in this economic dimension, because I am counting on, in the future, putting that economic dimension in another plan and putting this project of free textbooks, which we started this year thanks to Professor Micunović and us at the Ministry, slowly putting the year after year and slowly putting that economic dimension in another plan, free parents from worrying about having money in August 1st of September, that their children know that they have free textbooks, and then again with publishers that we are specifically agreeing all things about the issue of these textbooks. I'm also saying this based on the experience we've had right now. I have to tell you that this project is going great, that we had a meeting with private publishers and, of course, the Bureau. Ten publishers participate in this project, 44 are sets of textbooks, a set of textbooks means textbooks and workbooks, meaning that simple textbook, has multiple textbooks for individual subjects, so 44 sets for six plus two first-class classes, six of these mandatory, two, as I say, elective. We shared all the data with them, respected the choice of teachers of lower classes, active teachers, they got that information, got the chance to check it out and we made a deal. They accepted, and here I thank them publicly, for the price of the set to be up to 30% lower than the sale price. We will, of course, realize that project. I must mention this, the project will be realised not only thanks to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also thanks to the President of the Executive Council, Mr. Pajtic, thanks to Mr. Gilas, the President of Belgrade, thanks to Mr. Stanojevic, and thanks to Mr. Markovic, the President of the city of Jagodina, because they joined this project and for the children of the champions of the territory in this case of the autonomous province, i.e. the cities of Belgrade, Cačka and Jagodina, I am grateful to them. We've predicted a lot, according to us, the logical things in this whole book publishing process. One thing that makes us happy, I'm not saying it's ideal and it's good, no law is ideal in itself, but it's a good thing that we did this law together with state and private publishers, and that we kept 10 working groups, establishing content, and that we basically put together a procedure and predicted a lot of things, a lot of control mechanisms to ensure that the whole process of publishing textbooks and quality is ensured. Here I want to tell Mr Savić, Mr Savić, we will do our best and we have foreseen this through this content of the law, that there is absolutely multiple control of the content of the textbooks, and what Mrs Đeric said, that the profession has its own word in it. We, if you have noticed, when the National Educational Council publishes a publishing plan, a plan to publish textbooks, then the publisher hires each author, but at the same time the reviewers, where we asked, Mrs Đeric, to make one of the three reviewers mandatory to be someone involved in practical teaching, to know the contents of what will be written about. Then this review of three members gives its expert opinion, it later checks the Institute, so the NPS checks out the Bureau whether it is in line with that curricula and the programme that stands, the minister remains only to sign and then does not happen any of the things that may have been present so far from the point of view of content. So this is terribly important, respecting the absolute profession in the course, because so far we have had one situation, I must honestly say, at least according to those examples that I was presented with, that there were many textbooks whose content was very strange. At a press conference, during a visit to Leskovac, I asked myself, as a minister, whether those who write textbooks for children have children and do they understand, do they know which age they address from the point of view of choice of words and content of the textbook? There were many words whose meaning could not be understood and many examples and concepts that were simply not adequate for that age. But I think we're going to make a line now. The National Educational Council has created standards of knowledge by the eighth grade, now it will descend for each class individually. There'll be curricula and programs, it'll be the textbook's plan. With this procedure, I think we're going to get better textbooks than we've ever been. I think what we started with the release of free textbooks will introduce absolutely one order. Why? We're now saying that there's something called a set of textbooks, it's a basic textbook and a workbook. We had a situation that for one case, the case works, the publishers, I'm not going to mention anyone in particular so someone doesn't feel offended, but we did have examples and we had a case of having five textbooks in one publisher's language. You know how, someone defines it, it's been a practice so far, now it won't be, for that publisher, you don't even know by what criteria and those five textbooks go on the parents' burden. The parent, neither guilty nor debtor, faces the situation to be told on September 1st when he comes to school – you must use the editor's textbooks. Of course, the parent, what, education is very important, has or doesn't have money, nobody asks, but he has to pay. We have now put into a situation with this project of free textbooks to choose the best textbooks no matter who the publisher is, so you have for the native language of one, for the mathematics of the other, for the world around us the third, for the music or the fourth. Even the teachers told me, for example, for music and art, that there was a textbook that they didn't think they were so necessary. The problems Mrs Đeric spoke of, some first-class textbooks are written; exactly, it is written, and then it was in public – the Ministry wants to eliminate those textbooks. That's not true, because you have another kind of textbook that doesn't say it. If both were approved by the profession, I'm sorry, what is the advantage of each other? The profession approved one thing, the profession approved another, and the teachers chose. Why apriors eliminate someone. Even some publishers told me, and it's not a secret, and I'm telling you and the rest of the Serbian public that it's possible to change the contents of the textbooks, individual ones, I'm not telling everyone, so what's, say, the contents of the textbooks now to write in them, that next year can be in the workbook. But, however you turn, these problems that we've faced now in this first class free textbook project about where it's written or not written, where textbooks aren't written, they don't exist in the second and third ones anymore. We're all happy if the kids in our fifth and sixth grade even carry books, let alone write books. So there's been a lot of different situations here so far that we just want to deal with right now. I'm not saying this is an ideal law, but the fact is that we from the Ministry have agreed with the state publisher, that we have agreed with private publishers, that we have established certain rules of procedure, a control mechanism to check quality, because there, I think, article 37 is talking about quality, that after a while there will be valuable content, there is a multi-stage control mechanism, this is nevertheless saying that it is serious things. I must tell you that we, as in this previous law, have adopted a quarter of the amendments of fellow Members of Parliament. Of the 43 amendments, we have accepted 11 and we really think that they are significantly improving the content of this law. For us, the more problematic the discussion was Article 15. However, this is where we accepted the amendment of my colleague Magda, who in the first part is identical to the DSS amendment, but in the second part extends the content of this article and gives greater opportunities, so I would like, out of fear of publishers, to be threatened in any way, to tell them, that the 15th article is now being added to the provisions that read – a request for the authorisation of the textbook publisher submitted to the Ministry by 1 October of the school year preceding the school year in which the textbook will be approved. And a new position 2, which applies to everyone and to us in the system – exceptionally, in the case of a new teaching programme, the publisher submits a request to the Ministry for the approval of textbooks at least 60 days from the date of adoption of the new curriculum, no later than 1 May of the calendar year in which the new programme is introduced. We created a situation, if, of course, a new teaching program is adopted, that there can be a legal basis for it to be implemented in time. So, I don't think there's a need, and there's no concern about the contents of the textbook that's going to stand in it, that's what one of the colleagues mentioned. If you read Article 22(4) as well as Article 4 of this Act, you will see that it is very taxingly arranged, so we have no dilemma. Let's say, Section 4, says - the board of directors will not propose to approve a textbook that does not comply with quality standards, meaning the whole procedure plus quality standards, the contents of which are contrary to the provisions of a member of this law that contains marketing, advertising and propaganda messages. Article 4 again sets out very taxing what is a condition for content and quality standards. I have to tell you, he's our professor. Ilic has been very helpful in the making of this law and will help us in other affairs that are tied up, because the fact is that the adoption of this law should also follow several sublegal acts and we will do so within the next few months, again along with other colleagues who are and how interested in this issue. On the issue of the Autonomous District Authority in charge of the area of education and related to the approval and use of textbooks and teaching resources, I must say that this is a solution from the 2002 Law to determine certain responsibilities of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, which does not believe let it look at "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", No. 6 of 2002. As for members of other minorities, I must say that in the Republic of Serbia, we have accepted the amendment of counterparts Riza Halimi, who reads: "The Minister, at the reasoned request of the relevant expert body, can approve a textbook for the relevant subject and class, which is in use in the mother country, which is printed in the language and letter of members of the national minority, with a positive opinion from the National Council of the National Minority and the Institute." We have put all minorities in the same position in the Republic of Serbia, without any discrimination. This amendment has helped us to make this solution the same. What's more important is that "Politics" is published today, my colleagues showed me, a seventh-grade textbook competition, and maybe the Institute will have some more jobs under that law, but by adopting this law, we are finally introducing order. All publishers agreed that, regardless of their individual relationship with certain provisions of the law, I must say, some have asked the question - whether there should be licences or not, as Minister, I believe that the licence should exist, simply, should be known who is in publishing in this country. I think now we're getting something called a neat system, and then it's going to give us a chance to work. If there's a problem, we'll change the law. I'm telling you how we realized this project of free textbooks, since we had a public debate, Professor. Micunovic organised it, so we were in a position to hear representatives of different publishers about the content of the law. I dare say that we have solved a lot of problems with the fact that we put this problem in the light of the day and opened it to the public of Serbia, especially when we entered this project of free textbooks and when we now adopt this law. I will not overly praise the law now, the practice will show its value, but the fact that the agreement has been reached on the greatest part of the content of this law by those who are most interested, which is the Ministry, because the profession is important to us, quality and that students get the highest quality textbooks, and that there is one procedure that determines the whole process, that they are both a private and state publisher, says that we are still on good track to settle this issue in a good way. In any case, I thank you, as well as last night, to all of you who participated in the debate on this law, because it seems to me, as last night, that simply we who are discussing these educational laws in a more subtle way may be experiencing and using this Hall of the National Assembly of Serbia in a way that suits me absolutely. I thank you for this good approach to improve education in the Republic of Serbia through quality proposals, solutions, and in particular by discussing education problems. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25843	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Your associates and I really thank you. We already figured out yesterday what atmosphere we were working in. I think it is to the benefit of the reputation of both your ministry and our parliament, and primarily the citizens of Serbia. We move to the 12th point of the agenda: – Proposed Law on the Office of Space and Construction (specifics) Before we move to the 12th point, let me just inform you that on Saturday, so today, by 14.00 hours we will be in direct transmission, and after that will be delayed transfer, we will be informed by the Secretary General of RTS, due to the scheme that RTS already had in advance. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Bojana Stanojević, Mićo Rogović, Igor Bečić, Dr Vladjan Batić, Žika Gojković, Maja Laušević, Gordana Rajkov, Nebojsa Čeran, Vlatko Ratković, Svetlana Stojković-Milovanovic, Bojan Mladenov, Milan Avramović, Vladjan Jeremic, Mirko Munjic, Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Perić, Dragan Stevanović, Radiša Ilić, Petar Jojić, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Milan Nikolic, Boris Aleksic, Dobrislav Prelic, Milica Buja, Dejan Mirović, Aleksandar Martinović, Dragan Živić, Zoran Krasić, Dragan Todorović, Milan Škrbić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Donka Banović, Miljić as well as well as Miljan Mirjan Mirović, Milan Žalić, Vladimira Milić, Dragić. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly... Is the minister anywhere close? Yeah. ) I only ask the service to inform Minister Dulic, whom I have information that he is already in the building, to come to the hall before I open a search of the bill in particular. If it takes us five minutes, then I'll take a break, but I feel like they're here. Thank you. He's in the hall. Then we can go. National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted an amendment to the bill. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25844	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first drawback of this law is the very title of the law. I don't think the old name of the Planning and Construction Act should have changed. The SRS considers that the proposer has given an illogical name to the law, because editing space represents a whole set of procedures from planning to building, so it is necessary to amend it more clearly to specify the matter governed by the law. The word “planning” is unnecessarily excluded from the very title of the law. The title of this law was to remain the same as it was, which is the Law on Planning and Construction. Planning is a dynamic character, it's a process that lasts and I'll give you three definitions of planning. Planning is a decision-making process for appropriate action in the future through a series of elections. Planning is a process by which a specific course of action is chosen to achieve the objectives set. The planning process is to prepare a set of decisions on actions in the future aimed at achieving the objectives of the preferred means, etc. Planning, as well as spatial plans, is very important for the development of Serbia through which the schedule is primarily determined by the waterway, sewerage, energy and transport systems, the seasons for tourism, recreation and sport, the protection of natural and historical rarity, the schedule of health, cultural and educational institutions, and the demographic structure of the population determines the need for kindergartens, mangers, schools, the schedule of cemeteries, markets, playgrounds, parks, depending on the needs and number of inhabitants. When achieving goals, it is important to make sure that land, water, air is not polluted, that there is no enormous increase in noise and the like. Spacious planning... (President: Excuse me, will you use the time and your MP groups? The time I have as an authorised representative. (President: Would you like to be an authorised representative? Here you go. All of a few seconds. The spatial planning is of paramount importance and the goal is to get the most optimal and rational use of land through the same. Planning is extremely important. The word planning is clear and accurate. That is why I propose that this amendment be adopted and that this law is called - a law on planning and building.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25845	Mr. Dragan Stevanović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25846	Mr. Minister, I think my colleague Bojan Mladenovic's explanation is really rational and I think you should swallow the dumpling and accept this amendment. Even if we look at the explanation and the first sentence that you rejected this amendment, I think it could be used for an explanation to accept the amendment. Because you said yourself that it involves the process of predicting, designing, planning and bringing that space into the building. We understand that you put the law on regulation of space, and that would include construction, but to insist that the law on regulation of space and construction is really pointless. If you wanted to separate these two things, then you didn't have to do it through the title. This title is an absolute hybrid title. You're restoring some 89-year-old norms completely pointless. Neither the European legislation, which you insist on through this and through all the other laws that you promote here, has this title and the names of the law. There are four groups or concepts of legislation in the area of planning and in that European Union or Europe, which you are referring to. Go through who knows how many laws, you won't find this name and the name of the law. You've made an entirely hybrid title to the law that's really important. If you want someone to get the impression of your relationship to space, the treatment of space based on this title, really, the impression won't be positive or good. I think it is rational for you to accept what Mr. Mladenovic suggests, that the law continue one practice, one tradition, to be a law on planning and construction. If you already wanted to double those two things, if you wanted to, there were more plans, there was no idea which more and that we were calling, if you wanted to, then you could follow what your colleague next to you announced at one of the debates in Nis, and then the possibility came out in public that you would solve this area through two laws - especially on legalisation, and especially on planning. We could accept that. Maybe it was both rational and more practical. You've come up with the process and the importance of planning with one of these laws, but we'll explain it later in the debate and we'll insist. That's why I think it's very rational for you to accept this amendment. Swallow, repeat again, dumpling, and all the other objections to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25847	Mr. Oliver Dulic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25848	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you know how, there are several schools of opinion. When we wrote this law, we also consulted experts from spatial planning, who gave the necessary definitions that you have read, we know that you are spatial planners and that you are an expert in this area, and who thought that editing space was a much wider definition, which includes inter alia spatial planning, but also many other areas. As far as I'm concerned, I can now say, we can accept your amendment. Let the law be called "planning and building", in the end it is remembered among citizens, and if it will prevent further discussions and elaborates that are much more semantical than they have some fundamental meaning, I agree that, as the Government we accept your amendment and that the law is called "the planning and construction" and thus we come out of this topic. I think we have other spheres to discuss.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25849	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and became an integral part of the bill. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and became an integral part of the bill. National MP Mirko Munjic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and became an integral part of the bill. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25850	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this has gone so well with the acceptance of the amendment and when I submitted on behalf of the SRS Group the amendment to Article 2 paragraph 1 point 7) I also had one logical leadership when submitting the amendments. The amendment refers to the very beginning, i.e. the chapter concerning the concept of the draft law on the regulation of space and construction and concerns the definition of the scope of the plan. The draft law provides that the scope of the plan is to be a spatial or administratively defined continent, for which some spatial or urban plan is to be drawn up, in accordance with the law. What we have proposed through the amendment is that this point reads: 'The scope of the plan is a spatial or administratively defined continent for which it is intended to produce or create and adopt a spatial or urban plan, in accordance with the law of some spatial and urban plan in accordance with the law. ''The amendment was not accepted, as stated in the explanation, for the reasons it is imprecise, and essentially this provision refers to plans that will be made, as well as existing plans. Indeed, I find this argument illogical and, above all, it is inexplicable and inexplicable, because I do not see the reason for the refusal if I tried to amend it to point out the necessity of compliance with existing legal provisions, because if, in the context of the concepts, we have this situation inexplicable, then I can only assume what kind of a complete law on the arrangement of space and construction is expected in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25851	The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and became an integral part of the bill. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25852	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, given that you want to participate interactively in this debate, we are now in the position of the People's Parliament, and the public of the Republic of Serbia to see how bad the consequences were in the day you were shot from the National Assembly. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 paragraph 1 point 16 in order to make a more adequate provision for the inhabited area. I have to point out, I don't know how much the minister has participated in this, but the Serbian Government's Legislative Secretariat suffers from defining in its 2nd article certain concepts that are subsequently used and operationally used in this law, and thus about 40 concepts are defined in various ways, and in the earlier law on planning and construction since 2003, it appears that some 30 concepts are included. Absolutely some are unnecessarily elaborated, unnecessarily precise by this Article 2. I proposed for the definition of "populated place" to accept that it was "a built, functionally united space on which conditions were provided for the lives and work of people and meeting the common needs of residents", with the proposal of the law given "with urban elements, on the territory of the unit of local self-government". The question arises - if we know what our settlements are in Serbia, that many cities, or many municipalities without waterways, sewers, streets in the nearest part of the city, how can we claim that our settlements are urbanly decorated, or that they own urban elements? Therefore, the proposal submitted by the SRS by this amendment should be accepted because it better regulates this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25853	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25854	Mr. Minister, my amendment envisioned the introduction of a new point 18) within the framework of Article 2 of this Law, which defined the term "city settlement". "The town settlement is a settlement whose population is mainly engaged in non-agricultural activities, which can be the seat of the municipality. '"What was my intention? In the explanation that you rejected this amendment, you wrote that in point 17, Article 2 is the precise definition of the city, which means etc. When you look back at that point 17, you know what it says: 'The city is a settlement that is like a city established by law. ''The SRS has expressed its relationship to this law through quality and content amendments and through the fact that more than a third of the total number of amendments adopted have just come from this parliamentary group. We believe that you will also accept a decent number of amendments in today's debate. We believe that the legislator has remained unspeakable here. It is true that at point 17, you stated what the city is, but this also applies to the city to which the Law on the City refers. What about settlements that aren't the city, and they have elements of the city's settlement? That's why we predicted this. This issue is open because of the debates that were previously conducted, so some municipalities in their urban plans wrote an urban plan for the city's settlement, for example, any municipality, it doesn't matter, and then the urban plan was challenged because the municipality had no city status, or city settlement, not regulated by the city's law. That's why we felt that this differentiation had to be done and that we had to have what the village is, and what the city settlement is and what the city is defined by the Law on the City. We believe that this would quite explain and explain things, and we think that this way we would show and create a good basis for defining the network of settlements in all others, that is, the following planning procedures that are really needed, because when the settlement network is in question in Serbia, we can really talk about spatial chaos.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25855	The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25856	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this amendment just wanted to clarify the situation around the rafts, to specify things that rights and obligations of the owners of these rafts concern and that, if they are already talking about buildings, buildings and the like, also include the subject of abortions, because these rafts can also be used as housing facilities, as well as other purposes, for entertainment and such. Therefore, we do not see any reason why this amendment should not be adopted, because it has all the elements necessary to improve the legislation set out in this Article 2. Although the government calls for Article 150, where local self-government is reportedly obliged to regulate the issue and floating objects, again I note that this is not just a floating object, it is a single object on the water surface, not on the ground, not on the ground, but on the water surface, but it is still a single object. Therefore, there was no reason to reject Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic's amendment and mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25857	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25858	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it is obvious that you note the fundamentality of the amendments and the efforts that MPs make on the draft of this law. That is one, which would say, the right debate, in which the minister respects the proposals, views and opinions of the MPs. It's shown in this first part, right from the beginning of the debate on this law. As regards the amendments that I tabled on behalf of the SRS, I remain with the amendment, with the view that, in this amendment, the SRS should formulate the provisions of Article 2(2) point (32) as proposed in the amendment. I suggest you adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25859	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Arsen Đurić, Milan Lapčević, Vladimir Milentijevic, Radojko Obradović, Miroslav Petkovic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milos Radulović and Dragan Šormaz. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Mr. Hajdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25860	Dear President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 4. The bill speaks of the energy quality of the facility and we have proposed to delete this member of this law, not because we do not consider energy efficiency to be extremely important in the future in Serbia and the world, but rather we wanted to point out the importance of energy efficiency. Because the proposal for this law, unlike what you have written in the context of the rejection of this amendment, is mainly about the introduction of a certificate as a necessary document when building an object, and we want this amendment and amendment to Article 133, which speaks of technical control, and the amendment to Article 158, which speaks of the technical review of the facility, to demonstrate the importance of this energy efficiency, i.e. the persons who are going to carry out the technical control of the project and the persons who are going to carry out the technical examination of the facility have more importance in assessing this energy efficiency. We fear that as energy efficiency is perceived, it only leads to an increase in the cost of investors, i.e. citizens, that this will remain a dead letter on the paper of this law. Because energy efficiency is not by any sublegal act, it is not defined by any regulation. We don't know from what we have who gives that energy efficiency certificate, whether they're machine engineers dealing with climate and heating, whether they're architects. It is important that we know, or here, that we have this technical control and the technical reception of the person who tells us about it that they say whether this facility is built in accordance with energy efficiency regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25861	Mr. Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25862	Mr. Minister, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have now come to an amendment to one law and it is a little illogical for the ruling coalition to make such amendments and to adopt about 60 amendments, which is proof that something was wrong with the law. He's responding to a pass. I know, but to a good law, the ruling coalition has made so many amendments to be adopted, whether it was fixed by the government, in the meantime, through its MPs, the law means that something is wrong. On a good law passing the government's procedure and agreeing, I never need the ruling coalition to make so many amendments and to have that number adopted. It's unremembered, or it's some internal piece I'm going to talk about right now. Look out for one thing, spatial planning is extremely important for a country. Serbia, as a serious state, must have its own spatial plan and it is very important to adopt it in parliament, but more importantly to respect what is adopted and that this spatial planning, which simply passes the parliamentary procedure, is a sacred letter for a country. However, since I was the minister for the last 15 years and years, I have had a number of similar discussions. Why? There is no respect for what is adopted, and then the next set is organized and changed. Why is he changing? What the spatial plans were was party plans or because of various party interests they completely emerge from the framework of the spatial planning that was planned. We have strategies to develop certain environments, we have a spatial plan of certain regions, we have detailed urban plans and so on in certain environments, but it serves only until the opposite interest of the ruling coalition or people in power arises. Then there's a sudden change in all that. The proof of all this is next. We in Serbia, ten years ago, have determined some, take the traffic, points that are extremely important and crucial, where traffic is measured each year, means the intensity of traffic, and that directs, regulates the spatial traffic plan and the traffic development strategy in one country. However, political interests are different, and then every drought changes everything. Whoever comes and gets in his way, he just takes it and changes it. Here's a very important event for Serbia last night, a foreign minister accompanied by a Turkish foreign minister, who has nothing to do with it, has no idea what he's talking about, and says: we're making a highway through Sandzak. The papers begin and the man holds a press conference and announces. Please nicely, he says nice this will be the entrance to Montenegro, the shortest way to the sea and so on. In Serbia's development strategy, Serbia's spatial plan says the highway to Montenegro is entering Bolar. It is a point defined between the two states and Montenegro doing its strategy and doing its projects towards the Bolsari, and we are doing ours towards the Bolsari. And Vuk Jeremic, a naughty boy who travels around Europe all the time, gets a minister there from another country, comes and says, well, let's go there and work. If we have 500 cars a day on the highway to work tomorrow, between Tutina and Novi Pazar, we make the highway as from the cannon, because there's a minister who said – like, we're going to help, we're building a highway. In our traffic development strategy, the greatest intensity is towards Lazarevec and Valjev. We have 27,000 cars a day in Lazarec, and we say, well, it doesn't matter, this is what the EU says we make where we have 2,000, 1,000 or 500. It doesn't matter. Whoever comes from the side, he does literally whatever he wants in the state of Serbia, plans whatever he wants, makes whatever decisions he wants, and we accept everything. Of course, our ministers and politicians to be modern, popular, to be in a trend when they go into a certain environment, they won't come empty hands, they don't say any less – we work the highway for you, there's no problem. So, Mr. Minister, that's inadmissible. Well done, let's do it and let's build it, but do you believe me, I recently passed a highway that was recently built with a big pomp and done something, without the equipment the highway was released in traffic, there's no use of permission, how it can be put into traffic when there's no license, no papers, no overpass and no underpass. Do you believe, a local politician comes in, Palma promises the people, enters and supports the government, makes a man on the highway, makes a highway to Kragujevac, makes no paper, certain documentation, and what happens? There are no overpasses and underpasses. Now the harvest has begun, and the poor peasants drive out the van and they're going 40 miles around to come across the street, because the road cut off their property they own. Now they lay hay and load on a truck and a tractor and drive 30-40 kilometers to go too far on the other side of the road. If something is being built, it must be done according to all technical regulations, as the plan adopted requires, as the building of a specific facility that is significant for the region. How can a highway be done without any overpasses and underpasses? Without anything? No equipment? Without anything? There's an extremely high traffic risk. It's impossible. Now on that piece of highway that's pompously made, you push out tractors, combines, frisces, cultivators and everything else, load up hay and get out on the highway. It's nowhere in the world. You understand, you don't have an alternative route for agricultural machines and what else is necessary in this case to do. So, we just, you know, act out, do what we want and do what we want. Whoever comes from the politicians that they need something, to support the government, to step down, to look for what comes to his mind. So these powerful men also asked to put out the concession, which was an extremely high-quality project, a good project, a top project and which means a lot to Serbia's development. Therefore, these projects, which are significant and in line with the spatial plan, which are in line with the traffic development strategy, are rejected ad act, and here everyone is projecting, everyone is doing what they want, everyone is doing what they want to do, and in order to politically absorb the number of electoral bodies they will get. I remember perfectly, in some previous governments, one of the ministers forced so much eastern Serbia and completely mutilated it, spent a great deal of money, and no project came to life more than 30% or 40%. Let's take the old mountain project. It's been so much invested and everyone's forgotten. There they threw a few billion and said, "Well, those drunken billionaires threw away, and they said, "People, no more, you're not interesting." Maybe we'll need you for some next election, so we'll talk to you. Local politicians who are needed to defuse something, a little addition to the electoral body, literally do whatever they want and completely redecorate a picture of Serbia, which is not in line with these documents that we adopt here in parliament. There's no point in coming so pompously with laws, announcing a revolution in something, saying it'll be a miracle, we're all behind it, and tomorrow when we do it, a thousand problems. I remember, there are no overpasses, underpasses, equipment, no bridges across the rivers to connect certain villages and this creates extremely big problems in certain regions where such buildings are built. I would recommend that you still respect those decisions you make and that certain regions focus and coordinate with Serbia's spatial plan, with strategies to develop certain infrastructures in certain environments, if we think it all works as one single continent. This is how we make party projects, which as soon as they disturb a particular set of things, and that's why I'm looking at all the news this morning from the President of Parliament who is being praised, adopted 70 different acts in the Assembly and 200 laws. It is a free story if all those 200 have to repeat some next set, which we hope will come next year to power in Serbia, which will say that nothing is right, to put an ad act. Only you gentlemen laugh and smile, but half of these laws will be worth nothing, because they will be strictly party-defined and fully deviated from the development strategy. It doesn't have to be next year, it can be there next year. A certain act of the state cannot be changed with certain political garneries passing and coming. Here are many politicians passing through, politicians are replaceable, parties are passing through and coalitions are fleeting. We can't use something that lasts one season, no matter what season, whether it's a year, two or three. It's short for Serbia, a short period of time. The development strategy, certain points of impact defined in Serbia, must remain forever. This country is not a banana state that anyone can play with it. We've completely ignored certain environments, completely now. Take the stories of political these days that are being led, here, it's a very popular story about highways. All will get some highways, both Kosovo and Pristina, and connect with Albania and enter Italy in various ways etc. What's gonna happen? No one mentions western Serbia, but out of spite we don't give that highway where it is most needed through the Shumadi, and we don't give it there, because it's not the interest of this ruling coalition. Why? Because that electoral body won't. If you don't want us, we won't give you anything. You're going to die there every day, you're going to have delays, you're going to travel for hours, and we're going to build where people are obedient, and it's going to be a big loser. We've done studies, and every highway that has under eight thousand cars a day is unprofitable and making losses. The highway should be marked, there must be certain signalling, lighting at intersections, overpasses, underpasses, to throw salt, doing fences, protection, etc. All of this is foreseen in accordance with the law. In order to be profitable, he has to charge that he has 8,000 cars a day. A highway that doesn't have eight thousand cars a day is unprofitable, you lose, and the budget has to be touched. If we create where we have two thousand cars, imagine what donations we have to do and hence the losses of public enterprises. I hate it when the minister comes and says, "This one's made a loss." That's not true. If someone does and does something, and creates something, but we make them do something that's unprofitable, we go back to the strategy of Tito's policy. You see, and now we've revived Joan Broz, we're starting to make movies about her. Here, Tito in his policy that he had first thing was a free passport. We're working on it intensively now. The other thing was the automotive industry, which he created and artificially by creating Kragujevac and Fiat, and we're going now, and that's the number two of these governments. And the third thing, pride and the Dick of Titus's policy were non-classified, not the EU, not some other blocs, etc. We're back in the game now. Three pillars of a completely missed policy that broke in the end and led to the collapse of the state now Serbia is pushing again. (President: Mr. Ilic, will you perhaps from the time of the parliamentary group to proceed? So, white Schengen... I'm sorry if I overstepped. (President: No, you can go from time to time for the parliamentary group. I've got a little more time to explain this to you. We'll be back in a while. Why? What we have a president, we have people who are from the council of this Broz cabinet, their parents from the council of the office of Milka Planinc, we have ministers today whose fathers were the heads of these cabinets, very respected. They pulled these projects out and tried to resurrect something that was overcome. What's going on now? We do not deal here and in this House with small issues that life means for Serbia. Our Serbian citizen needs one, to survive, to pay for electricity, to train children, to wear, to wear, to have a roof over his head, that is the basis of a successful family. So please, Mr. Minister, this story of spatial planning, urbanism, strategies of power and disaster, etc., don't forget the building. You're number one, Minister of Construction, number one, in your line of work. Construction is the backbone of the Serbian economy. You must understand that, Mr. Minister, your first goal is your first construction plan. Of course, he's being followed by all of this as accompanying elements. You, Mr. Minister, are the Minister of Construction. Don't be ashamed of you and your Ministry to force and potentiate construction, construction. It's our window into the world. Our way out of the world, the basic point of development of the Republic of Serbia. If you start construction, you'll be recorded as successful. Cheap construction, cheap, is the right law on social institutions, not just social, not even cheap construction in Serbia. If you start construction companies, because for years in the various projects Dinkic has implemented, destroying Serbian banks that have been stolen because of one Sartida, where Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic and others have also culled, broke the entire system of Beobanka, Jugobanka, Investbanka, which was the backbones and development of Serbian construction. With the bankruptcy of the largest Serbian banks, construction firms, such as "Kombrap", "Rad", "PIM", are also bankrupted by the "Energoproject" and many others, not to list "Kazimir Veljković", "Ratko Mitrovic", etc., which were known and recognized in the world, which built dams around the world, highways, large construction buildings etc. That's your priority. So please, don't shyly mention construction, but put it first. You're the building minister. It's a nice ecology, we clean Serbia, it can be done, it's one campaign, it can work, it can clean Serbia and we have to clean Serbia, our Serbia to clean up, and that's good. But it's for you, as minister, under number five. For example, the number one building on its feet to be laid, not flimsy, but stable legs. The urban mafia, the construction mafia, must slowly move away and begin to rule the law that is passed in parliament and bring all this back to life and work. Don't let the big construction firms disappear, and that's what happened now. There's also a "Hydrobuilding" gone, and a lot of very important companies. "The Bridge", it was the pearl of Serbian construction. Now come the people, the bow-bag, the water and take for subcontractors our great systems that were very important to Serbia and Europe. Let some amendments be adopted. You've heard here from fellow MPs a good proposal. Accept everything that's good. Don't be a party man in construction, urbanism, in spatial planning. The spatial plan has no limits. A good project is very important and what is strategically important for Serbia. Don't forget, ignore all Western Serbia, don't throw Sandzak away, it's very important. There are development strategies how to connect it and do it nicely in another way, very correct. That's what life means for the whole region. Well weigh where you'll take the highway to pick up traffic, be the main aorta through Serbia and bring it to Belgrade, to Central Europe. That's very important. It has all been specified in Serbia's Space Plan. Do not deviate from what is very important for Serbia, the exit of Central Europe towards the Adriatic Sea and the strategic importance of what Serbia has invested in for the past 100 years, it is the port of Bar. Luka Bar is an extremely important point for a Central Europe merger, an entire Serbia with maritime roads. There is a better gauze than in Croatia, much better, big ships come, it is extremely important. Don't run away from those projects that life means for Serbia and don't let politicians take you astray for petty political shale and petty political interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25863	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. The word has a minister, Mr. Dulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25864	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Ilic, I have seen this monologue as one of the deep self-critics and of the 250 MPs in this room, that 249 MPs have spoken as you have now said, with many things of course being true that you have said, I would say that people have the right to say that, because they have never sat in this chair that I sit in today, and in the past four years you have sat down. When you talk and criticize me for building roads, for winning votes, for building without permission, and for letting roads go into traffic without using permits, I could now open up a series of similar situations where you've been building roads for winning votes and letting things happen in Serbia that unfortunately have happened in the past decades, but they've been happening for your time, and that's to let a lot of roads that don't have the permission to build roads that don't have a building permit happen today, that our citizens are driving across bridges that never went through all the necessary controls, etc. This law is designed to solve these problems as well. You're right when you say the building is a motor of our development and a little later I'll tell you what we're doing to bring the building back to life. Those big firms haven't failed in the last year. The process of the collapse of large companies lasted while you were a minister. Now we can add up and subtract what's all that you've been doing to keep these companies alive. I have no intention of arguing with you, I think we're working together correctly and I think you've opened many projects and they've been correct, but you've made many mistakes. So, self-critics is when you say that, for example, spatial plans are not respected. We can list a whole series of situations when your ministry has failed to respect the spatial plans your ministry has brought. What's a newspaper since I've been a minister is that no time can it start building without permission. The 20km highway today, built in Vojvodina, is built with the approval to build, or report works issued by this ministry. There was no way to talk about it until all the permits were obtained. It is not easy at all because there are terms, deadlines, public pressures, political parties pressures, the pressure of the opposition, the question why the works didn't go and the pressure on the administration to get these building approvals as soon as possible, but they do. That's one newspaper. I hope whoever's in this place tomorrow will follow something that is the basic rule of the game. We can't insist that our citizens have to get permission, then build, and act differently as a state. This is the principle from which we started, as we started from the principle that we cannot force municipalities to bring urban and spatial plans, unless we as a state bring a spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia. In a debate in principle, and I promised that next year, in March, this parliament would have a new spatial plan for Serbia that implies the implementation of all the strategies that are being done at the moment. We have completed the strategy of Serbia's spatial development and I hope tomorrow I will have the opportunity to share it with everyone to see what it looks like. It's a fruit of work in the past year. Unfortunately, I have to say that the Space Planning Agency, while you were the minister. She hasn't been able to do anything about these jobs in four years. We have now succeeded in this year and a half to catch up. Maybe it doesn't matter. For me, that's very important, because every spatial plan that has been adopted at regional level is a hierarchical higher order plan compared to the municipal spatial plan and impossible to disagree with each other. We have a lot of problems implementing the laws we're making and you're absolutely right here. We have a lot of problems with local powers who don't want to implement what state decisions are and don't want to follow the law, but we'll deal with it. We need the law as one powerful weapon and the rules of the game that we are establishing to be one framework within which we will all move together and each of us must do so by example. The minister must not build anything, even in a small mountain village, without a building permit and without a plan. While I'm a minister and if I build, I'll never build without a building permit, and that's a zero point of something that's supposed to be behavior. Because if we're asking our citizens not to build without a building permit, we can't act like one. On the other hand, the procedures are long, aside from the fact that there are many problems, aside from the fact that Serbia is a country where this area has not been regulated for a very long time and, to be honest, there was no political will to regulate itself, because there was the possibility that administrations could be arbitration and that big money was taken in corruption. We're trying to cut all these things by this law, and we need the support of all of you. We need support and MPs. For this reason, we accept amendments from the MPs in these debates. Your criticism at the beginning of what we have accepted so many amendments - because the amendments are good? We accepted the amendments and your parliamentary groups, and the SRS, and the DSS, and the SNS and all, of course, the majority MPs, because all those people came and wrote amendments with faith that it was a significant repair of that law and we accepted it. As for Bolar, while I am the minister, if the spatial plan of the travel corridor, he is not yet finished, but if he says that the highway will go to Bolare, no foreign minister will change it. It's something that's the principle of respect for the acts we bring in. Is the highway going to Bolari in Montenegro - that's where it's coming out? If someone wants to change that, and they want to go somewhere else, they're going to have to go through the procedure that goes through this space plan of roads and corridors, which defines that he's going to go out on the Bolari, as you know it well, because it was done for your time and it was done very well. You only had a dilemma about whether the highway to the southern Adriatic will cross the territory of the municipality of Novi Pazar or through the territory of the municipality of Užica. It's a fundamental dilemma, which of those regions will hit the highway. By working at this point, we're working on a variant that would help to help the economy of both of these, let's say, sub-region, along the lateral pathways. It's something that was essentially a key idea. Finally, as far as the building is concerned, it is true that this ministry can do much to make the entire construction sector stand on its feet and we are doing so, and we are doing so among other things by passing this law, including by creating a market for building land that has never existed before, so that our citizens are paying an enormously high price for the apartment's square because the building land has not been regulated in the way this law predicted. We're trying to help the building through the fact that we're passing a law that will significantly shorten the authorisation procedure, which will introduce game rules and define everyone's obligations in that one chain as they should behave. What I promise you, we will insist on its implementation and by personal example we will show how it can be done. This ministry will also meet all those obligations that this law has provided for, so we will insist that others carry out those obligations as well. Here in the debate, in principle, I have promoted one of the actions that we believe must be implemented, which must increase the demand for apartments in Serbia at the moment. It's not our construction operation, it's alive and well. Of course, she doesn't have the giants that used to exist anymore. Unfortunately, we are only now trying to find new markets for our construction operation. The whole story you mentioned about non-classifieds I would not now separate from the process of European integration, because it is simply an attempt to return to the markets where we were once successful. We will also have talks with some African countries and the Middle East countries looking for our builders. Let's be honest, so you've been sedated that way and you've had contact with all of them and now that they're coming to Serbia, they come to us as the continuity of something you've been doing. As for the increase in demand for housing, at this point the biggest problem is that our citizens feel insecure to take credit for the apartment. Their jobs are insecure, and this is the consequence of this crisis, and this is the result of a total uncertainty that we all hope will pass as soon as possible. We, as a ministry, will intercede between construction operations on one side, municipalities and armies that have very high quality building land, banks, our citizens, so all those who are bound to this model that we will promote very quickly, which is called one mass cheap construction, which would mean that our citizens can reach apartments of a modest square, about 50-60 square meters, at prices that can withstand two average salaries that are considered the average salary of a common family. We're going to need everyone's help for that, because it's also a project that's not party and that has to be national. I think I've proven so many times that I don't suffer from any party restrictions. I think I have shown, in cooperation with all of you, that we are really working really hard, especially with the municipalities in which the opposition is in power, to give each municipality exactly the same treatment as this ministry. We really think it is important that Serbia develops evenly and that every citizen feels the improvements of some of the things we do and the laws we make. Here, I've been trying to answer you, I'm not going to replicate you anymore, really without the intention of entering any kind of dialogue. But really you're right, what is brought must be respected, but we all have to do it together. Let's start with us, to respect the laws of this country, to respect the plans we make, and when we start to respect that, then we can insist on everyone else, to the last citizen who lives in this country to obey the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25865	Mr. Ilichu, you want a replica? You have four and a half minutes from the parliamentary group. The replica and possibly the four-and-a-half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25866	I want to speak to the Minister. I didn't want us to have some controversy after my discussion, the two of us, it's not working. I said my thing and I'm behind it. However, Mr. Dulic, you are a member of the DS, when I came to the minister's post, I replaced Mr. Schumartz and Mrs. Rushett. I had to talk about it for a hundred days, when the machines were blowing up, it was working, it wasn't working, it was charging, double warrants, and so on. The toll toll that was at the moment before the road mob was arrested 76m, so it increased to 105m euros, three times. I didn't want to talk about it. I didn't want to talk about the VIP salon. I didn't want to talk about 18 arrested right away. But you're always talking about me, that there's nothing wrong with me. Here, I'll explain just briefly. Mr. Minister, I was working on a strategy that was adopted, first it had to be reconstructed. So, from Belgrade to the Macedonian border, that one tape had to be a complete reconstruction. From Belgrade to Dimitrovgrad, Nis-Dimitrovgrad, the complete reconstruction of the Sićevaćka ravine, tunnel and all that; from Belgrade to Vrsac, this was requested by the EU, all new; from Belgrade to Subotica, two strips to Novi Sad and to Sudotica, a complete reconstruction of one tape; from Belgrade to the Croatian border, all new. From Belgrade to Republika Srpska, completely new. Shabac-Loss, brand-new. Goldibor, brand-new. Bor's head, all new. Black spots to move away in Serbia. So, in my term of office, there was a period of development of certain facilities and projects that had to be carried out and that is why we were offered credit lines. In that term, I did a total of four thousand kilometers! You can't pull a white line right now for four thousand miles, let alone anything else. Just to finish, it's true that some objects were built without projects, but no one would get a project there. Your associates certainly know well that it was impossible to get projects for the Old Mountain, that it was impossible to get projects for the Lelic monastery, and it was supposed to be done, it was a big celebration, for Žiča, for Studenica, Studenica-Ivanjica, Ivanica - Jasenovo, to connect the Kokin boat, meaning, with Sandzak and with this part. Why is it impossible? What people gave the monastery 600 years ago. These families are dead, they don't exist. So thousands of these citizens and those families are gone physically. Here, for the Lelic monastery when we were working, you have no chance of winning, when no one on the track is alive anymore, nor do those families exist in that area. People gave without any paper, simply said – average. So we can't leave it in the mud now, we have to make it and do it. And you'll have to give in to such a kind of object. In many bathing villages, it's simply an average path without any document, if you go in for five years, you can't make documentation, half people live in Australia, half in America, half of them don't exist, no one knows about them. We've been looking at church books and they don't exist. So that's where you have to step away from this project documentation to do it, to get into a certain realization. Therefore, each time has its own burden and all of us have worked at a certain time. I was doing the Banat highway, but there were all the reconstructions, so I didn't need the paperwork. It is true that we should have done certain projects, and there were no dinars for expropriation and project documentation. There were no dinars in the NIP. For years, he promised to transfer money. Projectors work and stop. Of course, you don't have the money to expropriate now, and you don't have the money for project documentation. I remember when I was making the bypass, we had a lot of trouble. Why? What the contracts were 20 years ago, tenders from 20 years ago, performers from 20 years ago, half of them no longer exist. Projects should have continued because they sued, heirs or those who bought the company, because they formed asphalt bases there. These were big projects, and you'll certainly have them today. So, I've done some good things on purpose. The second thing, for these highways where the concession was, is that the concession requires an idea and a general project, and in the concession law it always comes to the performance project being done by a concessionaire. So, he needs two places to connect on the highway through his performance project, which is accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and certain ministries, and in order to get into the project, you have to do an expropriation. The peasant won't let you get into the corn to drive the machines, make drills, question the land if you haven't paid him. That's impossible. So there was no money for it, and Minister Dinkic promised every year -- a being, a being, and we never experienced that day to be. So, please, take this as well-intentioned. I worked with my associates the way I thought he did best. You make half that score, I'll be overjoyed. Now it's come to pass when all of this has been reconstructed to continue the corridor. We did a piece of the highway next to Leskovec, 22 kilometers to the Vlasotanic loop, and we did it from the intersection to the Niška spa and gave us a useful license. And for the first time, it's allowed to release the freeway with a service permit and I did it. Please, the current highway that was released 30-40 years ago doesn't have a license, you know that well. It has to be done to form documentation, give useful permits, because tomorrow whoever makes a car accident can sue the government, because the facility doesn't have a license and it has to be compensated for the damage. My discussion was well-intentioned. I've been doing construction my whole life, 23 years with a private firm, and believe me, I've devoted myself to it, and I've been doing the best I can. If anyone has anything against it, let them come out specifically with the facts, I'm here. If I've done something and wronged the law, feel free to run the store, but I think I've been working as clean as the sun and I can all check it out and confirm it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25867	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25868	I have submitted to Article 5 an amendment that the facilities to be built under this law will be built in the future so that they can be accessible to persons with disabilities, old people and children. In this regard, Article 5 of the Law provides that residential and residential buildings with 10 and more apartments are suitable for access to persons with disabilities and that those with less than 10 apartments do not have the obligation. I think one of the basic human rights is exactly the right for all persons, whether they are disabled or not, to have access and access to every facility. It is defined in this law that all facilities that are public purposes must be adapted to persons with disabilities, but I also believe that the facilities that are intended for housing, which are below 10 housing units, should be adapted to be accessible to persons with disabilities and I have defined that as objects of collective housing. It is very possible that any residential facility that has several residential units is subject to the interest of a disabled person or can even be placed on the market, so it can buy a family that has a disabled person, and I think it is far more acceptable for the law to say that every residential facility that has multiple housing units is adapted to people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25869	Mr. Dulic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25870	Just for a little while, since we thought this was a very important issue. The issue is about those ramps for disabled persons and some technical standards of objects when it comes to the availability of these facilities for persons with special needs and especially for disabled persons. The fact is that for the first time in this law there is an obligation for public facilities to have access ramps for persons with special needs. Now the question is asked here – do all other objects, of course, there, of course, we are talking about housing, have to have it? The European standard is that buildings up to ten apartments do not have to have that and that buildings with over ten apartments have to have it, because there is a statistically higher probability in the building of more than ten apartments that there will be, among other things, a resident of the building and someone who has these needs or in their relatives and some regular visitors will have someone who has these needs. However, what we have written to you in response and what is our intention, is that in the sublegal act we also foresee technical possibilities that even in buildings that are less capacity there is the possibility that, if there is a need, there is a need to build such a thing. Therefore, in the technical characteristics of the facilities it will be planned that the stairs are so designed that there is a possibility of upgrading the ramp, if there is a need for it. In any case, we think they'd make a big burden if they put a standard on all objects, because this is the law, so it's a legal obligation to all objects over ten. Under ten, we'll handle the sublegal act. We certainly care that this issue is permanently resolved and that it becomes part of the housing culture of building objects, when it comes to respecting the rights of these people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25871	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Mico Rogovic and Igor Bečić. Mr. Rogovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25872	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I must express my regret that, Madam President, a few minutes before the individual debate on amendments to the parliamentary clubs and the government's opinion came to us, and therefore because of this finding, I do not believe that you have arrived enough to look at what the Government has said about this bill, and not us who have passed the law on education and textbooks so quickly to this law. So from day to day, given the moves that are being drawn and the type of flight changes, the dignity of this congregation is being violated through the inability of all of us to participate seriously in the work of this congregation. Mr. Minister, I want to repeat the differences in views on this bill of regulation and construction between you, the ruling coalition, and the SNS. We have tried to give you that through the amendments submitted and through respect for the expert opinion, but you, as many minutes as I have managed to record since this session continued, have accepted part of the technical amendments and a very small number of essential amendments. In view of that finding, these reasons for disagreement are still open and standing, and I think that during this individual debate, and since you have been involved in the debate literally over each amendment, we have the possibility that possibly some misunderstandings in terms of fundamental change of this law and what the profession says accept at this session as well. These objections between the SNS and the proposal for this law relate to the following. (President: Excuse me, do you want from the time of the authorised representative to proceed? I don't think so. I also pointed out in the principle debate, it refers to this discontinuity from 2003 to 2009 that the government was in almost identical composition in both of these calls and that the period of six years is really great, but very short in the adoption of serious laws, especially the law in this area, and the fact that under the mask of reforms in this period is really some other things, and that is the first remark I repeat to you. The next complaint regarding SNS's position is that this is really a set that was to be divided into five laws: in the area of planning, then in the area of construction, the area of construction land, the area of restitution and nationalised land and the area of legalisation of illegally built buildings. From all the objections that I have made last time and which we will present today about amendments and individual debate, it is said that the long-term application of this law from all of this is really not the ultimate purpose of this law and that we will come into a situation that even in some new assembly we listen to such discussions which of the predecessors did, who now does. Our task is not to bring parliament together for another reason in this debate between the former and current ministers, but to make laws that we will be proud of as parliament, as an assembly, not as members of a political party. Then, the non-compliance of the law, especially in the area of planning and strategy, as my predecessor, Mr Ilic, spoke, was indeed a problem in terms of the processing of matter from the part of planning. That's the next remark. The last remark is legalization the way we see it and the way it was brought out here, i.e. that, in terms of legalisation of objects, they can be divided into legalisation of objects that have been built literally to provide roof over head and other ties of large capital, local self-government, ministry and all other things, and it relates to construction for the commercialisation of the market. I would be really pleased, when you said a little while, that finally this area of building cheap or social housing in Serbia will live not only in Belgrade. I must, here regarding legalisation, point out a part of the objections in some debate with you, in some contacts and agreements on the entry of this bill into the procedure, it is noted that the city of Belgrade, its mayor, has made a series of remarks on the points of articles 189 to 191. I was able to record that they were partially corrected, but by being an MP from Novi Sad, he made remarks on them, my distinguished colleague, Maja Lausevic. There is nothing wrong with that, indeed, but Mr Gilas has suggested that given the main problems in this area defined by these members, which should be completed, they are partly and completed, one of the lawmakers from Belgrade will present. That's why there's all the reasons why our attitudes don't totally match and we're thinking things through. All this stuff I said really stands as an argument. You pointed out that insecure jobs are a fear of possible purchase of real estate, but in this area, given the submitted amendment to Article 8, that's why I'm saying this, don't you think the insecure purchase of real estate in Serbia is also a problem? It happens every day. The evidence is that you have not accepted a good fundamental amendment to Article 8, which is detailed in what you in article 205 really have the right to resolve as a sublaw. But given the finding that you have not accepted the essential, essential amendments to this proposal of the law on the regulation of space and construction, there is no doubt that you, and given this finding and your ingenuity of Article 205 which gives indications of what your intelligence and the data register are, the question is whether they will be covered in the right way and perhaps someone will replace you, so that area does not work well. Therefore, the amendment to Article 8 which submitted the SNS detailedly elaborated this problem register and all of these situations why we cannot come to the knowledge of what kind of investor it is, and the proposed amendment is really comprehensively given an analysis of what should be contained in the register of data on the main investor, excluding this main finding that the problem of insecure purchase of real estate will not exist, and I have recently mentioned to you the problem of real estate on Zveztar, where the purchasers of apartments, or individual apartments from the area and mentioned properties, and by paying even funds through Volksbank, have come to the situation that the bank has also put a mortgage on the object. That is why this amendment definitely gives citizens, possible buyers, that at any moment in time from this database, which is really detailedly regulated, there is a situation, that is to learn about what kind of investor it has done, what it has done so far, all its data, name, seat, PIB, possible objections to inspection, which is also required by this amendment to enter into the data register all its objections regarding the earlier behaviour of investors on certain buildings, i.e. construction, and removes a major misunderstanding about what I said, and that is that the uncertain purchase of real estate will no longer exist. So much for this, I'll continue on the subsequent amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25873	The word has a Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25874	Since this topic has often been mentioned, and it is about the register of investor data that must be handled and, let me say, the creation of one of the mechanisms that should prevent our citizens from being deceived, as unfortunately they have been cheated in the past, I must say that your amendment is good. It contains most of the things that will be regulated as this ministry predicted, but we have predicted that we define the contents of that register by sublaw because it has to be living matter. What I can promise is that all of what you've been looking for and being an integral part of that sublegal act, but eventually they'll probably come up with that there'll be unconscious investors and they'll try to find other ways to bypass the content in the register and try to cheat on our citizens again. We have to have one living document, because if we define it strictly by law, I'm afraid there's not enough data level and content to change tomorrow. That's why it has to be regulated by a sublaw. We talked, and that's what we agreed. We will not accept your amendment as an amendment, but we will rephrase the content of your amendment in a sublegal act.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25875	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapcevic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25876	Article 8 says in its original form – the Register of Investors is established and it is a public record of all available data on a natural or legal person as an investor and is available at the headquarters of local self-government units, as well as in electronic form via the Internet. The investor register is run by a local self-government unit. I suggested adding another position, which is to say – that the Investors' Register is not run for natural persons and investors of individual housing facilities. The intention is that all of this is available via the Internet, and it concerns investor data, whether they are legal or natural persons, does not apply to investors who make their houses for housing, individual and residential buildings, because there is no reason for that. Why would someone's data be on the network and be in the Investors' Register if a man builds a residential facility for his own needs and needs of his family, 50-100 squares, and he should be recorded as some investor who builds residential spaces in thousands of squares and for which data is needed to be on the Internet, because these facilities, or parts of the housing facilities, are given the market for sale, so the public must have insight into the data on these people. I don't think there's any reason to run a license plate for natural persons investing in their own housing facilities, living in their own family. I think it's quite reasonable that this suggestion of mine is respected and accepted by this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25877	She has submitted to article 10 of the amendment... (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: one sentence on this amendment.) I'm sorry, Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25878	We have not submitted an amendment to Article 8, but this debate over all three amendments to this article has prompted me to draw attention to only two things, Mr. Minister. Indeed, it also makes sense, gentlemen of the LDP, but more than that, it makes sense, and I have reported to you that I would recommend and ask you to adopt this amendment immediately, Mr. Lapčević, because you will create chaos if the individuals who are building objects for individual use enter this register. It doesn't say it won't. I suppose you may not have gotten enough into the details of some amendments, so before you make it easy to say that you will install some amendment into sublegal acts, to take care of the nonsense that forms part of this solution, especially in that section that significantly coincides with the Personal Data Protection Act. I hope when you do the sublegal acts that you will take care of it and recommend that you accept this amendment to Mr Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25879	Mr. Dulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25880	If we could accept it in the form of how it was proposed, we'd re-enter the detailed work of something that we've decided to discuss by sublaw. It's not our intention to register investors who build houses for their own housing in the investor database. That's not what I'm up to. Physical persons who build a house for themselves shouldn't be in this register, we don't intend to. But natural persons, and that's often the case, that builds housing units, or buildings with multiple housing units, should be part of this register. It will all be worked out by means of a sublegal act. The level of detail of the data proposed in the previous amendment and this separation to natural persons who build for their own purposes, which will not be an integral part of it, we will define all of this by means of a sublegal act. Rest assured, we have no intention of creating chaos, and we have no intention of registering what is not necessary to register. It is our sole intention to provide our citizens with data on natural persons and companies that are investors in several cases of large residential buildings, to gain insight into how they were treated before state authorities, whether they were correct investors, whether they were safe investors, whether there were judicial disputes, whether there were inspections that were unfavourable for them, whether all the facilities had passed different kinds of technical controls, whether they had been built in accordance with the technical conditions that had been envisaged by the projects, all this is something that would be an integral part of one information, some sort of bonus of a construction firm or investor that our citizen only needs to show who he was dealing with. This could significantly reduce the risk of cases happening, as they did in the past, for citizens to be offered cheap apartments at a very favourable price, at nice locations, and for later turns out, especially in the gray stage of construction, that these apartments do not exist and that they are sold multiple times, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25881	Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25882	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would especially like to point out that this article 8 really does not distinguish between individuals. I allow this possibility that you will, by one sublegal act, arrange and distinguish individuals as investors for your own needs and individuals as investors for a little wider field. However, as a member of the law, there is no difference between the two positions of a natural person as an investor. As I understand it, the minister's main goal here is to see the investor's credit rating, which is otherwise commendable, and we would welcome that, because it really is necessary to put order on our market, even on the housing market. Does this article achieve that goal? I believe that we have enough already regulation regarding the control of credits and, among other things, the investor in construction. First of all, we have an Agency for Business Registers. Every day, if he wants to check the credit rating of some company, some company, he can do it on that agency website. We have other ways of looking into the work of investors, if nothing else, if it's local, since that's the level, it can always be checked through professional organisations to cooperate with each other whether one of the investors is safe, whether he had problems with prosecution or something like that. However, with this article, we are in fact achieving, first of all, one red tape and we are actually achieving that this member is directed and directed against free enterprise and free labour market. Because if local self-government is competent to run those registers, what does that mean? If one of these investors is registered with a particular local self-government, is it thus impossible to carry out its work in other local self-government territories as well. Since we already have a bad experience with such registers, it is quite possible that this member can just result in such a result, that it will limit the flow of capital and the work of entrepreneurs and on other territories, except for that territory in which the investor is registered.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25883	The word has an MP, Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25884	I'll talk within those 15 minutes. Mr. Minister, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will give an example, since the guillotine process is high, since in Serbia we have a large number of regulations, including many that are in collegiate. Serbia is known as the state with the cheapest costs or the lowest costs for opening up the company. These costs are about 50 euros in dinar equivalent, meaning between 4,000 and 5,000 dinars. A few days ago at a meeting with a large number of foreign investors within the investor club, one investor praised the idea of what these 4,500 dinars are. But the first month after he opened the company, a bill arrived for a company that is in the municipality where he registered 100 euros or about 10,000 dinars. When he asked what it was, I don't have a prominent company anywhere, because it's a company that's not advertised, he got an explanation that it's a local tax, that it means the company's name on the mailbox, and that every month he has to pay the dinar equivalent for 100 euros. So we have the cheapest opening of the company, but then we also have a fixed fee that has to be charged from this. We did not write as the DSS amendment that abolishes this right, because in Serbia there is a major problem with investors that are uncreditable, but we fully support it, and when we saw an explanation of why not our amendment, but an LDP amendment, is just pointing to a bonity. In Serbia, it is not possible for the investor register to replace the work of other state authorities. There's also the Agency for Business Registers, there's been changes in laws and some sublegal acts, and it has significantly higher powers than it's ever had before. On the other hand, we have a paradoxical situation for all investors, that they now have to report credits to both the National Bank and the Agency for Business Entities. This will be the third register, if I understand you well, since you will be taken care of, then investors will have to appear in another address with identical data, provided those three registers are not connected. For example, the National Bank, the Vice Governor, came out with a statement and held a press conference, because he had just pointed out this illogicality, because when they turned to the idea of abolishing the National Bank's Bonity Centre, that a complete registry was being conducted in the Agency, he did not come across any response from the government. We support the idea of introducing order in construction, but if the problem is not solved at the state level, then we will have three complete identical things that are being conducted in the Republic of Serbia, and that can only create additional problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25885	The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25886	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS Parliament Club has tabled an amendment to Article 10. This amendment concerns documents of spatial and urban planning. Article 10 states that the documents of spatial and urban planning are the first planning documents, second, documents for the implementation of spatial plans and, third, urban and technical documents. The amendment I submitted in front of the SRS parliamentary club proposed to delete the 2) point i.e. documents for the implementation of spatial plans. For the sake of the citizens following this meeting, I will say that the documents for implementing spatial plans are the following: the implementation programme for the Republic of Serbia, the implementation programme for the regional spatial plan and the implementation programme for the spatial plan of the area of special purpose. This amendment has been tabled because the SRS believes that spatial plans should also include measures to implement the plans and it is unnecessary to further administrative and financial compliance with the planning and implementation process. In addition, it may occur that the implementation of the plans is not objectively, i.e. it will not be produced and documents for the implementation of all spatial plans, regional and specific purposes, but only for those plans where the current political interest exists can be neglected.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25887	The title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic and wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25888	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to delete article 12 and the title above article 12. The explanation is similar to the previous one, spatial plans should also include measures to implement the plans and it is unnecessary to further administrative and financial agree on the planning and implementation process. There is also a concern, as the co-worker said, that areas and regions will not develop evenly because of political decisions, as we have the case in Serbia that the minister or the ruling majority of certain areas can happen, will not give consent or a document to implement the spatial plan precisely because there is another political option in power. Otherwise, the imbalance in development is a marked problem in Serbia and there are entire areas that have been neglected, in which very little is invested. They do not develop infrastructure or in any other way. For the country itself and its development, it is very important that it develops evenly, because it is the only way to satisfy the interests of all citizens. All parts of the country need to develop, to have a good travel network, a higher percentage of the coverage of the infrastructure network, basic, health, school and other necessary institutions. The ruling majority can prevent the development of areas where other parties are in power by not drawing up and bringing a document to implement a spatial plan from those areas. Since there is a similar possibility in Article 33, it states that the minister is competent to give consent to the spatial plans of municipalities, we can come into a situation that the parties in power can fully slow down and fully paralyze the development of certain areas. I therefore propose that this amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25889	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25890	I will use the time of my parliamentary group and I have to realize that because of the transfer that is being delayed, and after 1400 hours, I will also present to my colleague, Mić Rogovic, as regards some general objections to the law, but it is precisely this article and the amendment that is the ideal cause. I can't miss without saying two days before the session was delivered to us this significant and so large a law, and without enough time to study it and make the amendments desirable corrections on it. You've adopted one single SNS amendment. It took some more, but it's logical for a government government to implement its concept, and I'm going to say a few words about that difference in concepts. There's no law that's more broken, played and disrespected by the law in this area. The result is over 150,000 illegally built buildings over the past 10-20 years. It doesn't just mean that our people are capable of finding holes in the law. This means that very often the government leaves imaginary holes in the law in order to react selectively to individuals and groups as well as to the discretionary law and to the philosophy of looking at a glass half full or half empty. The state has made a good contribution to the creation of chaos in this area through a lack of consistent legal regulations. The area most concerned by citizens is just about what is beginning to be regulated by Article 12, and these are the planning documents that are the basis, basis and reason for the biggest problem called legalisation of objects. Through what the state has been obliged to do, and has not done, we have allowed chaos to be created and today we are trying through the basic problem of poor definition of what it is that an illegally built object is that once again a populist project, where we want to tell the people that at a small price we will allow all objects to be legalised, aware that more support, my dear gentlemen from the DS, is not in foreign investors, nor in what is called the white Schengen and the EU, but is to be shown well-intentioned towards the largest number of citizens. I'll explain to the citizens what your cheap well-meaning looks like. You have provided that legalisation within the meaning of this law means obtaining a useful permit or building permit for an object as a subsequent issue and doing so for buildings built or reconstructed without a building permit. Apparently, that sounds logical. But by formulating this, where all the objects that were built without issuing a building permit, where they are all classified in the same category, you forget that there is a significant difference in legal status. In fact, most of the buildings that were built without a building permit were built at a time when construction permits were not needed in the area where they were built, because there were no planning documents for these areas, so there were no conditions for issuing permits. It's not a failure of citizens, it's a failure of the state. You can't think of such objects as illegal and you can't put them all in one category in law, because when they were built in these areas it wasn't a violation of the law. It should be borne in mind that 50 years ago, most of the area outside the narrow area of cities had no spatial plans and other urban documents, so there were no conditions for issuing permits. It is a large number of rural and suburban areas where family houses have been built, mainly for private housing, auxiliary facilities, and many of those designed to carry out their own agricultural activity. Until today, they don't have the spatial plans they've come up with for those areas, so there's no conditions to issue building permits. Now what I insist on is: by prescribing the obligation to subsequently issue building permits, that they must be obtained in the legalisation process means a direct violation of Article 197(1). The Constitution, on the prohibition of the return fact of the law and of the general acts, which is particularly illegal if new obligations are imposed on citizens or their rights already acquired. As foreign investors read today, those who have come into possession of buildings and below the land, who are changing purpose with a fair fee and how the citizens on their part interpret them, may they assess, among other things, and based on what we are saying today. When it comes to these mentioned objects, you have to keep an eye on the actual state. Most of these facilities, which have hundreds of thousands in rural and suburban areas, were built more than a century ago. You know what kind of materials, what technologies were in use, and I am convinced that many of them do not meet the standards and requirements, so it is very possible that their legalization will be rejected as you do in Article 191. The demolition procedure shall be initiated if the request is rejected for formal reasons, not only of those mentioned in Article 191 where these are no longer materials according to the applicable standards, as well as the non-payment of fees for the urban construction land. It is the same situation if the owner does not obtain the approval of the ministry for changing the purpose of agricultural land and does not pay the compensation. You know, as a rule, such buildings were built right on agricultural land and there was no institution for land change at the time of their construction. Neither was the law being broken, and now the intrusion of those and such, the classification of all in the same category, is simply inadmissible. You must bear in mind that it is a large number of nursing households, pensioners and other categories that I will not place in the poorest, but certainly in poor material possibilities, and I don't think they will have the opportunity to pay legalisation costs, which are not small, and regardless of politicians' statements that it is the cheapest possible procedure and your well-meaning. According to a free estimate, there are over two million, or over two million Serbian citizens living in such households, and if you just consider that the preparation of technical documentation is so that they can be introduced into this process, at a cost of around 1,000 euros per household, you see how cheap it will be, and let the citizens assess why this law is so comprehensive and at this point. Requests for legalization and obtaining a building permit and use may, my lords, be required only for objects built by breach of the regulations applicable at the time of construction, or without the documents provided that they have been required. But yours, there is no nicer word, two-faced or double-access approach, much better spoken of by the adopted amendment of the ruling majority MPs, Article 189(2), where legalization includes buildings that were built under construction permits, but that has deviated from the project. So the one who directly violated the regulation and built the floor higher, spread a few squares to the right and to the left, is now in the same situation as the one who built by the laws that were in force at the time. This is a small contribution to your claim of well-intention and desire to help the citizens, and I will tell about the intention to patch up the budget at all costs, even at the cost of violating constitutional provisions and even at the cost of adding even more to the one who does not have it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25891	The word has Minister Oliver Dulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25892	Why did we get to legalization somehow, I guess that's for the end of the day, but let me answer that question when it's already open. So, first of all, let's start right away from the end, of course I'm sure you know that, Mrs. Tabakovic, because you're an economist, the income from legalisation will not be revenue to the budget, nor will it be used to patch up the gaps in the budget, it will be part of local income of local self-government and will have nothing to do with us. So that's the first thing. The second thing, you have now described the legalisation process and you do not yet know what it will look like because we as a ministry in co-operation with municipalities will define this process and, of course, it will look completely different. We aim to legalise the current situation in Serbia and this is a major step towards all legalisation procedures that have been conducted so far. We accept that, for many arguments that existed in the past and many reasons that unfortunately led to people building without a building permit, we today have a situation that there are entire settlements, parts of cities that are built without permission, which no longer can be destroyed, which are built without a plan base, which are built with the infrastructure as they are built and that one moment we draw the line in Serbia and say, now there is enough. Let's make all the things that were certainly built to legalise one fast, cheap and efficient procedure, and to prevent illegal shops in Serbia from ever again, with the other norms that this law provides. It's the intention of this law, and I think each one of you is able to identify and greet that intention somewhere. This is not a question of my party – your party, this is really a question of introducing order in Serbia that everyone needs. I will remind you, the local self-governments that this law will implement throughout Serbia have different types of political combinations and party combinations, and each of them is important to this law. When you talk about the necessary documentation for the legalization process, there will be no need for a plan base, a very important thing. So, there won't be a necessary plan base, there won't be a need to have some detailed regulation plan, any kind of plan based on which legalisation can be implemented. The second thing, when we talk about technical documentation, it will literally be based on the image of the object, by sublegal act we will only do in what way, and on a necessary technical report that does not involve the development of the main project. All these numbers you're talking about aren't exactly accurate. It'll all be part of the sublegal act. We care about the legalization process. We don't care, like you're trying to scare the citizens, if we take their money, we care that the legalization business ends so that this same citizen has a house that's legal, that kids can inherit tomorrow, sell it, take credit, or do anything with it, because it's their house and no one can tear it down anymore. We also care that these facilities are finally legally connected to infrastructure connections and that these people are finally paying for electricity, water, solving the problems they've had so far. We have a catastrophic situation that 17 or 20 objects are connected to one electricity connection and, of course, they pay a single price of electricity or they don't pay at all. We care about getting rid of the whole process. Let's just have a little confidence in us that we want to do this all the way and that our intention was to finally end this legalisation process in Serbia. For this reason, regardless of the real problem that we have had to understand the need to define the legalisation procedure for all the objects that have been built until the entry into force of this law, because there are different qualifications after 2003 and before that, let's say that we have made one step and that I am sure that we have passed a good law that contains within ourselves the norms that will finally solve this problem. To solve this problem, we really need everyone's cooperation. One more thing to say about legalization. The local legalisation process will be as successful as local self-government can organise. In some municipalities, this process will be much more successful than in others, because local self - administrations are unfortunately unable to organise themselves in a good way in some parts of our country. Under the current law, we have different results in different local self-governments as regards the legalisation process, although this required a much larger volume of documentation and it was still a complicated procedure. This procedure will be very simple. What we as the Ministry are going to prevent is that there are enormous differences in the prices of the legalisation process from local self-government to local self-government, especially when it comes to housing. We took it upon ourselves to prescribe criteria for establishing the price of housing up to 100 squares, which essentially make up most of the objects that will need to be legalised in Serbia and of course for buildings, state buildings, which we talked about earlier, which are all these bridges, roads, highways, etc., a large number of state buildings that are also illegal. I think we've circled that system in the correctest possible way, and I'd say the only way. Indeed, your criticism of making a standard that will be inconclusive and which does not want to solve problems is not correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25893	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25894	If you don't give me the right to reply, I'll use the MP's group. You'll be richer in a minute and a half, two, I'm denied the right to explain that I'm not well and properly understood, but you are the rulers of our words and our time, so be my guest. Replica or the time of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25895	The time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25896	Gordana Komic is Gordana Komic. Mr. Minister, what is the link between the Republic of Serbia's budget and the budget of local self-government, everyone knows, especially the municipalities when the Republic suspends the transfer funds that are intended for them and when it imposes on them inspection and other obligations, and does not transfer funds to them. As an economist and someone who has worked very hard on the budget system, I know perfectly well that it is a system of merged courts and that it is a system of the Serbian state. It is one register, one cost for these citizens of ours. What's the big deal? I warn them at this point what the cost will be and what your well-meaning is. I don't want to mention their birthrights and their citizenship, whether they need to, how long it takes them, how much they cost, because citizens make a difference between what we promise them, we say what we are able to do and really do on the ground and apply it as a law. So trust in you should be given to citizens and they will decide whether you have fulfilled it, probably according to both Fiat and actions, and about restitution, and about the effectiveness of privatisation, etc. I don't want to open those topics. What's very important to me, what this parliamentary group and I have been saying personally, about the structure of the foreign reserve and the glass tower that collapsed, is something Mrs. Finance admitted the other day. That's what I was talking about on time, a year ago. I'm timely informing, and I'm not scaring the public of the reasons and consequences of your actions. For your trust, you'll fight with the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25897	Anyone else want a word? If not, the National MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Arsen Đurić, Milan Lapčević, Vladimir Milentijevic, Radojko Obradović, Miroslav Petkovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic together submitted to the 12th amendment. The word has a National MP, Rade Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25898	Mr. Minister, this is a set of members or part of a law that applies, first of all, to a list of plans that exist, and then regulates how they are adopted and contained. I would particularly like to stress the importance of the amendment that has been accepted in this set of members, which is an amendment that defines that an integral part of the strategy, i.e. the spatial plan, should be a long-term strategy for Serbia's development. What is the problem is that, on the one hand, the plans of the strategy are not being adopted, and on the other hand, the fact that the strategies are not being implemented. With this amendment, we have proposed that the implementation programme, the application of this spatial plan be turned into a law and that it has a legal basis. It doesn't have to be that way. We just wanted to point out, to help at this point Minister Dulic, and tomorrow to someone else, because if it's something law, then it's up to the Parliament to decide. When the congregation decides, it is much more binding than it is in case it is just a program. What was the case for us, which is on the one hand, as Mr. Dulic said earlier, there are no plans, and on the other hand there are planning acts, so they are not applied. It would be very interesting to make an analysis of these fifty strategies that are in place -- how many of them are not in line with the spatial plans of the Republic of Serbia. There was a very serious debate here on a very important energy strategy, is this strategy applied in Serbia and does it have anything to do with what is being decided every day? The point of this is precisely to point to the importance of implementing acts that are in place, to strengthen instruments that the minister can control the application of certain acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25899	The word has an MP, Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25900	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I believe that the law on regulation of space and construction is somewhat megalomanic in scope, but also manipulative and demagogue for the purpose of action. Proposers have declared it a law for the general benefit of all Serbian citizens and this is more like a pre-election political campaign than the real value of a legislative proposal. Let's see what are the general benefits for the citizens of Serbia? It was originally presented that the basic objective of the law is to regulate procedures, strengthen responsibility and more efficiency in obtaining building permits, and all in order to faster build, reduce corruption and greater access to foreign investors, noting that there is no term in Europe, better said, a corruption mechanism for obtaining the right to use -- only in Serbia. Suddenly, this goal is no longer a primary goal, but a primary goal - the legalization of illegal construction. Legalization is again a demagogue story, by which there are even a million illegal objects and that this law will solve everything and legalize everything. It's of course in the sphere of not only demagogy but I'd say alchemy. In Serbia, each family has an average of three members, which means that three million Serbian citizens live in illegal facilities or rather half of Serbia's population -- that's a lie, that's not true, that's one absurd data. For example, according to the latest census in Serbia, for example in Belgrade, there are 50,000 empty apartments of known owners. At the same time, media manipulation is being manipulated with a constant shortage of at least 150,000 apartments, despite the fact that there are 558,000 apartments in Belgrade for a million and a half inhabitants. I'm afraid it's a story about so-called investment urbanism and that it's a mechanism -- to launder dirty money, not to take care of homeless people. I believe in the good intentions of the promoter, but I repeat, some figures, some data, some announcements are in the sphere of megalomania and demagogy, I would even say politics. You have proof -- statements by the real estate agency, various data from them, by which there is a specific real estate market, where the dominant payment is cash. We all know that's the case, and it's not through bank loans and bank accounts. It's the foundation, by value, of the biggest corruption in this country. I think that should be taken into account, not to say that it is primarily in the interest of all or most Serbian citizens. After all, the question arises why has legalization not been carried out so far? It's just that there's corruption. Another detail that falls into my eyes. This law constitutes a continuation, or completion of nationalisation, rather than an affirmation of the right to restitution. Olli Rehn told Boris Tadic yesterday, what I've been telling you for years, that the law on restitution is a prerequisite for EU accession. This law does not care about the rights of old owners, the rights of owners of nationalised property. I've submitted a dozen amendments to the team. I don't know what the government's position is. I didn't get any answer about it, but given how nationalisation was done for the needs of the Mokra Gora National Park and for the personal needs of Serbia's greatest savior Necessitating Kusturica, it seems to me that the trend that figures in this law, when it comes to the old owners, will just be continued.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25901	Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Arsen Đurić, Milan Lapčević, Vladimir Milentijevic, Radojko Obradović, Miroslav Petkovic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milos Radulović and Dragan Šormaz. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, and this amendment has also become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Milan Nikolic submitted the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The word is wanted by MP Milan Avramovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25902	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister apparently found understanding by accepting a total of 28 amendments from the SRS. I hope that such treatment will continue on this Article 27, which was submitted by my colleague Boris Aleksic, in which he gave a formulation of the proposed Article 27, so that the term "unformal settlements" is eliminated. If we consider that Article 2, which explains certain terms used in this law, there is no term informal settlement or formal settlement, except for the term - inhabited town, town, village, construction area and building plot, it is clear that this term "unformal settlement" should not even exist. The government's explanation for why this amendment was not accepted is that the proposed wording of "unformal settlements" opened a legal possibility to regulate these settlements. The legal possibility is open for city building land, for building land and with basic urban parameters, as well as plans designed to build any settlement. It is said, in accordance with the draft law and the European Convention on Human Rights, this term must exist. Now I wouldn't want to go into a detailed analysis of what an informal settlement is. I assume you meant these kinds of settlements that filled the Roma population under the Mostar loop in Belgrade or anywhere. But if we generally take priority on what a formal settlement is, then we're deluded into this law itself. Because of this, I think my colleague Boris Aleksic's proposed amendment is in accordance with the law and should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25903	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Mico Rogovic and Igor Bečić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25904	Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens, on behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party and the Prosperity Club, I have tabled an amendment to Article 28 of this law. This is a very important area that is prone, very prone to corruption, where the law must prevent these negative phenomena in society, and on the other hand enable citizens to reach a building permit and resolve their existence as soon as possible. We have, say, several segments where the spatial plan of units of local self-government, which is brought to the territory of units of local self-government and sets out guidelines for the development of activity and purpose of the surface, as well as conditions for sustainable and even development in the territory of the unit of local self-government. Let's say, problems like 1993, I'm going to set an example of the Vrbas municipality, where there was no spatial plan, where, despite the poor legal regulations at the state level, some investors gave a letter about the intentions of investment, where we could use the strategic position of the Vrbas municipality. The lack of a spatial plan that was to turn agricultural land into a building land, to take advantage of the strategic position of the Vrbas municipality and the proximity of the highway, to create an industrial zone, where, for example, the Vrbas municipality at that time, although a large municipality, had no building land within the construction area, we know that the spatial plan is one document that is not easy to bring, where a very long period of time, where local experts also have to specialize in agencies, such as the newly-sadic Urbis, which is difficult to reach. Also, the financial inability of municipalities to adopt a spatial plan, it is clear that after that this global crisis and our government, with its moves, has driven potential investors away and it is clear that these laws must regulate areas and bring up plans such as the spatial plan, must change the general urban plans, where they can be reviewed every five years. This amendment provided that point 9) of Article 28 is deleted, as the plan for detailed regulation should determine all the locations that it covers, not only to leave the possibility of creating urban projects on certain building plots, the creation of urban projects is justified only for locations for which there is no detailed regulation plan, and the public importance is to bring these sites in place. In all cases, it has proved to be common malversions, and it is important to sort it out in this way. Also, very often when plans are done you can't even see the situation on the ground and then there's a conflict between the plan and the situation on the ground and we have problems with citizens who have very often usurped a plot next to their plot.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25905	One minute and 25 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group you used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25906	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 29, which reads - that the words "space plan of the area of special purpose, the spatial plan of the unit of local self-government and" are deleted. In my explanation, Mr. Minister, I have stated that the contents of these plans, including building and editing rules, have already been defined in the members of this law on 20 and 22, so it is unnecessary to define the content in another way. You're in a position to explain why the amendment is not accepted, it's a little bit extensive, so I wouldn't read it, but I would remind you of these two Articles 20 and 22, which, although large and summed up, and I don't think your argument is in place and that you could accept this amendment, because I think that really in these two Articles the 20 and 22 are all covered and that there was no reason not to accept this amendment. Mr Minister, since you are actively taking part in the debate, which is of course good, unlike many ministers, you have accepted a large number of amendments to the SRS and this morning the amendment to the very title of the law, which speaks in a way enough about your seriousness to want to set these laws together with the MPs seriously. But it is not clear to me, Mr. Minister, how could you accept that these four laws go into a common principle search, because they are so extensive that we simply cannot take account of all members responsibly and seriously, and since the MPs of the SRS, unlike the chairman, respect the Rules of Procedure, in the next announcement I will continue to explain to you why I wanted to say this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25907	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, and this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, and this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The word is made by MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25908	I'll use the time I have as a proposing. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 33(4) states that for the spatial plan of the unit of local self-government and the general urban plan, prior consent shall be obtained before reference to public insight, as well as consent to those plans before publication, the Minister responsible for spatial planning and urban planning affairs. What I insisted on on the Committee itself is that if the municipality already has a spatial plan, if the municipality adopts a spatial plan, it is absolutely unnecessary for the minister to give consent to it. Here is an explanation why the amendment is not accepted, and I will read only the first part: "Amendment is not accepted because the bill provides for mandatory harmonisation of the plans of the narrow area with the plans of the wider area. As the spatial plan of the unit of local self-government, the general urban plan and the general regulation plan brings together the local self-government unit assembly, it is mandatory to control the compliance of these plans with the plans of wider areas etc." That's what I said. If the spatial plan of the municipality is in accordance with the law, if it is in line with the plans of the wider area, why does the minister need to give consent? He's given too much and unnecessary authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25909	The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25910	In the debate we talked about it, and I must say we are not looking forward too much to taking this obligation, and that is that after the adoption of a spatial plan and adoption at the local self-government assembly, we are giving ex post consent, but I will tell you what is the example in Serbia, which is mostly happening. We give the previous consent, then the plan is substantially amended by amendments to the committees, which are not foreseen then, or not in line with some plans that are essentially higher order and that need to worry about the protection of natural goods, the corridors of infrastructure and all that is state interest. We'll try to be effective in control. I hope that local self-government will not change the amendments, changing the essential text for which we have given the previous consent, and not implementing something that is documents and data from the spatial plans of the higher order, but unfortunately it is happening in Serbia, and we must, for now, until the access to spatial planning is fully changed in Serbia, to keep this provision. I'm sorry about that, we wanted to accept your amendment, but then we went through the paperwork, and it mostly happened that there was an attempt to change it, mostly in the interest of some local investors, and that's something we still had to keep as one mechanism, so let's try for another period.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25911	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The word is wanted by MP Milan Avramovic, following an amendment by Aleksandr Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25912	My colleague, in line with his colleague, who spoke about the amendment to the previous position in which the position of four was required to be deleted, included the whole concept of this proposed member. So, Minister, if you look at only this member a little more precisely, you will see that the acquisition of consent within 30 days, more specifically on the pre-publishment plan, the Minister of Spatial Planning and Urbanism, or the Autonomous District Authority, as regards compliance with the plan documents of the wider area, this law and regulations adopted under this law, within a period of no longer than 30 days. Now look at the following point: If the minister does not decide on a request for consent to the regulation plan within 30 days, it will be considered that the agreement has already been given. So there's no point in you putting up with anything for approval, so if the minister doesn't see it within 30 days, you think it's approved. In your next position, if the minister determines irregularities, he will order that they be removed within 90 days. What if the minister doesn't see, as he says in this proposed attitude that fellow Martinovic asked to be deleted? If the minister doesn't see it, it means that all irregularities will enter the existing proposal. The minister can't do what he saw, what he didn't, if he came, if he didn't make it. As with the previous amendment, a colleague who spoke about the minister's need not be declared, so says this amendment why we asked to be deleted. So if the minister already has no obligation and if something is already being said, then there is no need to make a statement. So termology -- if the minister arrives in 30 days, unless the existing proposal is respected. That formulation certainly in one serious law, like this one, can't stand. That is why counterpart Martinovic, together with counterpart Zivkov and counterpart Dejan Mirovic, submitted this amendment that you should accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25913	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25914	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have filed before the SRS an amendment to delete Article 33 of Section 8. I believe that the minister's overrule in the signing of certain documents, which could be in the jurisdiction of local self-government, of course, which have regulatory plans adopted and all the way the law requires. It is unnecessary to give consent to a plan document adopted by the Authority in accordance with its competences. Consent opens up the possibility of abuse, delaying procedures and corruption. Of course, the SRS has pointed out through many laws and through many amendments that there has been the abuse of certain ministers, where local self-governments are not in a political option such as the minister or the ruling group holding the majority in the Assembly, that documents can be delayed, that abuse can be done and that damage can be done to local self-government, of course, only because of one document. Just to remind you that many local self-governments have sought their ambassadors to Belgrade in order that when insignificant documents have to be brought from Belgrade, they can do something on the ground. I find it unnecessary that this member, on whom I have submitted the amendment, is put into law, and should be deleted as my colleagues have previously requested. Therefore, Minister, you could adopt one, both the second and third amendments that my colleagues have submitted with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25915	Anyone else want a word? National MP Dragan Stevanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25916	Mr Minister, these amendments relating to Article 33 are indeed showing, or manifesting the position of the SRS that we are just insisting on the need to coordinate acts of higher and lower order, i.e. planning documents. You here through the normative part of the text in this article have indeed given yourself the right to be flexible. I will cite this through the example of small municipalities and small communities that in the coming period, if you really want to commit yourself to Serbia's planing, will bury you with documents. We'll say -- you'll come up with a spatial plan from the Black Weed municipality that you really can't, let's take an example, look at and see objectively. It will pass for 30 days, on a document made that you didn't have time to give consent to, the actual consent is given. Uncompliant with the higher row act, the document will be accepted. That's one problem. The other problem that will arise here is the fact that these acts of the lower order will work out unaffiliated local or regional character companies, which, you will agree with me, the pressures are possible and will be great. These planning documents will include individual or collective interests who knows who and who knows whose. Our intention through these amendments to Article 33 was precisely to protect the coordination process from such monsters or anomalies that would appear objectively. That's all. If he can, let it be an argument more to accept Mr. Bojan Mladenovic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25917	The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25918	I agree with that, but you of these amendments, formulated in this way, are not achieving the goal you are declaring. Exactly the goal that has been proclaimed is only achieved if there is another control mechanism. Of course, we are not able, if the terms and deadlines are respected, we will certainly insist on, that all the municipalities in those segments, as it is foreseen here, start making decisions on the adoption of a spatial plan, and making, process, etc., that one moment, we will be there in 18 months or 18 months to two years, we will be overrun by different types of plans that we should give subsequent consent to. That's right. On the other hand, there are municipalities that bring spatial plans for themselves, which define some future living space, which certainly contains in itself many strategies of their own development that they make for themselves, and there are those municipalities that in segments of their spatial plans have to implement standards that are in line with the higher order plans. First of all, I mean the spatial plans of special purposes, of course, I mean the spatial plans of travel corridors, I mean all those spatial plans that are important, which are additional and concerning some things that we define as a national interest. What kind of situation do we have today? We bring a spatial plan of special purposes and define zones of protection, the protection of natural goods, the first, second and third zones, define them, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopts this spatial plan, it begins to apply, and local self-government has interest and the designer of the plan does not respect the higher order plan at all, but rather creates a spatial plan of the municipality in which it defines the construction zone, for example, in the first zone of construction protected natural goods and so goes. If we don't have supercontrol of this, the only mechanism left is for the urban inspector to annul this act and for us as a ministry to seek the protection of legality before the Constitutional Court. It's a very complicated procedure that won't delay the awakening of wild construction in protected natural resources. These provisions that we've predicted in this way are exactly the protective mechanism. We will focus on those spatial plans in which content and components can be, among other things, the implementation of some norms and spatial plans of the higher order. So, basically you're right. It would be ideal for us to live in a country where, when we as a ministry agree with local self-governments, giving prior consent to the content of the plan, the plan does not significantly change in discussions in local parliaments, but it is the case to change. In what way do we have to act to protect something that is a state interest that is part of this changed local plan? That was the intention. We are not looking forward to being controllers, but I repeat again, the awareness of planning and the awareness of the protection of lawfulness, the awareness of respect for protected natural goods, and the awareness of respect for all that are norms and acts, still in Serbia is not sufficient enough to have confidence, there must still be one kind of supercontrol. I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25919	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25920	Can I have a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25921	No, you're using MP time, there's no basis for replication. Here you go. The People's Parliament of the Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25922	Mrs. Komic, I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, based on article 27. Rules of Procedure. I'd like to ask you to let me say what I'm going to say to the end. It is not a classic violation of this article, but a request to you or a proposal that, within your obligation to take care of the Rules of Procedure, allow MPs when they need to replicate the Minister. Replica isn't a fight. The minister is obviously...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25923	People's MPs, first of all, I understand you have a request. Secondly, giving the right to a replica cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure and cannot be the subject of either application. Thirdly, the time available to the parliamentary groups is sufficient at this time and can be used. Please don't throw it away. I don't appreciate whether time is enough or not, I see that time is enough. I think you have quite enough evidence that in cases where time is exploited, every MP gets the right to replication. I take care of the order and make sure that the replica has its value. Any kind of exchange of views between the minister and the MPs will be allowed and desirable, and you can be sure that in the case and at the time when the parliamentary group, your or any one of them, will no longer have the time available, available for debates in the amendments, that they will be given the right to reply, but first to exhaust for the debate all the time we have at our disposal and in cases where the right to reply is justified. Thank you. On the basis of Article 85(5), I would like to inform the National Assembly that we will be working today after 1800 hours of discussion on the subject that is on the agenda at that time. I now set a break and the afternoon session will continue at 15.05 hours of debate on Article 35, to which the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. [[After break – 15/05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session in the afternoon, with discussion in particular on Article 35, to which the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25925	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 35th Law speaks of jurisdiction for the adoption of planning documents and, under the draft law, the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia is adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the spatial plan for individual territorial units is adopted by municipalities, while regional plans, as proposed by this law, are adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, except for the city of Belgrade and the territory of the AP, which is done by the assembly of the city of Belgrade, or the assembly of the AP. Our proposal is to replace the word "Government" with the words "The National Assembly", because we think it is in line with the Serbian Constitution and we think it is necessary to bring it into line. If regional spatial plans for Belgrade and the AP adopt their congregations, it is quite understandable, since there is no regional division of the Republic of Serbia, that the spatial plans of other regions are adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We in the LDP are a little surprised at the explanation of this amendment, where it is said that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that its acceptance would violate the basic concept of the law regarding jurisdiction for the adoption of planning documents. It is not clear to us at all what the concept is, is this a concept to adopt a spatial plan for certain regions, while other regions are done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. why the powers belonging to the legislative bodies of the Republic of Serbia are given to the executive body of the Republic of Serbia to this member of the Law proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25926	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25927	I have submitted an amendment to Article 36(2), where I propose that it be changed and said, "By making spatial, or urban plans, run by responsible urbanists." The bill states that the design of spatial or urban plans is run by a responsible planner, or responsible urbanists. The only excuse for this is if you think that in individual and local self-government there are not enough urbanists, so that eventually a responsible planner can be a responsible person. Mr. Minister, I've just begun to tell you that I don't understand why you've allowed this debate to be united on such important laws. You probably couldn't influence, I'm sure of it, it also turned out in the debate in principle, when you wanted to speak to the MPs, when you had to pick up your dicks at 17.55 and go outside. It's a disaster. One serious question arises: why is this the way the laws are adopted here in the National Assembly? What's the rush? Work backwards, fly like a fly without a head, on Saturdays and Sundays, in small hours, I don't think it's responsible, and it proves in some way how the ruling coalition behaves primarily. I think every law should have come seriously, in a correct debate, in a debate that gives time to everyone to give what they think, because these laws certainly won't do our citizens any good. Think carefully about the way the National Assembly is run, for I am sure that it is high time to put your finger on your forehead and imagine deeply your actions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25928	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Dragan Zivkov submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 37 and 37. The word is Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25929	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 37, which says that the title above article 37 and article 37 are deleted. There are several reasons why we have submitted this amendment, given that it is a responsible planner and responsible urbanist. I would need to read what is covered by Article 37 for Serbian citizens. ''The responsible planner may be a person with acquired higher education at second-degree academic studies (diplomatic academic studies - master, specialist academic studies) or on basic studies of at least four years and at least five years of work experience, which has professional results on the production of spatial planning documents and holds an appropriate licence under this law. The technical results referred to in Article 1(1) shall be considered as results obtained at the management, manufacture or co-operation of at least two spatial planning documents. ''I ask the question of the Minister – since it is a young man who has completed his studies, he should have the right license as this member requires, he would probably also need a proper experience for a licence – where will a young man gain that experience if he is not given a chance? Since he can get a chance at local self-government, to be employed in these jobs as a responsible planner, there he would get a safe experience, etc., but the question is, how much experience is there in all of this. We enter a vicious circle where a responsible planner has a responsible job for a local self-government and where projects are very important, which, if missed, would suffer for decades and would otherwise have to be sanctioned. For that reason, I have also put this amendment to delete the article and the title above article 37.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25930	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Stanojevic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Bojana Stanojevic submitted to the 38th amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to the 38th amendment. The word is made by MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25931	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to replace the words "for at least five years" in Article 38(1). The amendment is essentially the same as the previous amendment, submitted by counterpart Bojana Stanojevic. My amendment was not accepted, hers was accepted. The government has thus decided, but it is essentially the same that I am glad that this Article 38th will be amended, i.e. that responsible urbanists can be a person with acquired higher education in basic studies for four years.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25932	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25933	The Honored President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have submitted this amendment for this reason only to specify Article 39 in the 9th position as regards the budget, and for the reason that we are clear that this member foresees that the funds for drawing up the planning documents are provided in the budget or from other sources in accordance with the law. However, there is one bad practice that should be interrupted, which is funding through the Directorate or the Building Office, so that unless it is marked correctly that these funds are provided directly in the budget, then it may happen again that it goes through this Directorate or the Institute, so it is not burning to avoid where we can avoid and prevent any abuses or irregularities, or some monopolization of a particular institution or organs or something like that, we do not. It's actually a general position of the LDP, not to go into awe, but where we can explain things, to specify, to avoid all misunderstandings, that's what we should do when law is passed, because the purpose of the law is to apply these laws, with as little uncertainty as possible, to be functional and to show in practice that they achieve these goals that make the laws possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25934	National MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Arsen Đurić, Milan Lapčević, Vladimir Milentijevic, Radojko Obradović, Miroslav Petkovic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milos Radulović and Dragan Šormaz together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25935	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected ministers, member of the 39th define the means for drawing up planning documents, where the ministry responsible for spatial planning tasks may, at the request of the local self-government units, finance or co-finance certain planning documents, and the conditions and criteria for financing these planning documents shall be brought by the minister responsible for spatial planning and urban planning tasks. The DSS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment proposing that a new position should be added in Article 39 -- that the minister's approved funds should be notified to the National Assembly of the RS within 30 days. I was convinced that this amendment would be accepted, but not that it was not accepted, but that the amendment was incorrect and that it could not be determined with certainty what means. I really don't know what's inaccurate. It is clear that this is the means that the ministry will define for the construction of certain planning documents to be addressed to the ministry. I think this amendment should be accepted because we have a lot of cases where the government or certain ministries are left with the possibility to allocate some of the funds according to certain government programmes or some of the criteria set by those ministries. We do not want this amendment to deny the Minister's right to establish criteria and criteria, but we think that the Assembly should be informed about where these funds have been spent, because that ensures transparency and contributes to the more objective of the whole process, so I urge you to reconsider and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25936	National MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Arsen Đurić, Milan Lapčević, Vladimir Milentijevic, Radojko Obradović, Miroslav Petkovic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milos Radulović and Dragan Šormaz together. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, and this amendment has also become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Mico Rogovic and Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25937	Dear citizens, on behalf of the Parliament club, I have submitted Serbia's SNS with my colleague, Mica Rogovic, the amendment to Article 41. This article speaks of planning documents, that they must be made available to the public. I predict that attitude 1 is changed and point 2 and point 3 is added. The first position should be as follows: The planning documents, with graphic and other contributions, must be available to the public during the validity of the document in the carrier's seat, with the exception of the annexes relating to specific measures, conditions and requirements for adapting to the needs of the country, as well as data on areas and zones of facilities of particular importance and interest in the defence of the country. Second position: The committee responsible shall be responsible for enabling the person concerned to copy all the planning documents, graphics and other annexes referred to in the previous position within three days of the day of submission of the applications. Third position: All planning documents drawn up until the date of entry into force of this law in the scope of paragraph 1 of this Article shall be made available in electronic form on the website of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction. The purpose of this amendment is the availability of information of public importance to citizens. So far, the proposals have been attached to the local self-government advertising board. Usually these are not visible places and citizens can only formally access data. This was a source of corruption, as officials were open to the possibility of having a monopoly and control over the information they manipulated.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25938	The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Arsen Đurić, Milan Lapčević, Vladimir Milentijevic, Radojko Obradović, Miroslav Petkovic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milos Radulović and Dragan Šormaz. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25939	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 45 defines the obligation of the local self-government unit to educate the local information system of planning documents and conditions in space. The deadline for the establishment of this information system is one year from the date of entry into force of this law and we have proposed an amendment to add a new position in Article 45 -- that the local information system is financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. For two reasons, we have proposed this amendment. First, previous members defined the establishment of a central register of planning documents and the obligation of local self-government to form a local information system. We welcome this idea and we think that this idea is good, but if it is financed from the Republic of Slovenia's budget, the Ministry will have complete control and insight into the state of the room. The second, even more important reason why we have submitted this amendment is that local self-government is in an exceptional position. With the 2009 budget rebalance, the government reduced the transfer funds to local self-government by 40% on average, thus stopping many development infrastructure projects. What is important is that more than half of the municipalities literally cannot function because of the lack of funds, not only because of the reduction of the transfer funds but because of the charge of local budgets compared to the plans and compared to the previous year. Local self-government is in an extremely difficult situation, and this law imposes an obligation on them to form a local information system. This calls for certain financial resources, which I believe many local self-governments are unable to provide, and therefore we have suggested that this be financed from the Republic's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25940	Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, and this amendment has also become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 46th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, and this amendment has also become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25941	Article 48 speaks about the concept of a plan document and we LDP generally have a problem with the bill's proposal because of public participation in the decision-making process when we talk about the planning, planning and construction process. We think that public participation is just a formal and declarative character. The proposal for this law comes down to only 30 days of public debate, when citizens have insight into the planning documents, any spatial urban plans, and at a stage where they are almost defined, almost finished, and at that moment when they are modified or expensive or almost impossible. This is why we have proposed an amendment here that says it is necessary that the concept of the plan must contain an elaborate of the conditions of competent public and municipal enterprises on the basis of which the plan is being carried out, as well as results of field research and surveys by citizens living in the territory of the plan. You have told us in response to our amendment that there is no interference that the concept of the plan contains, among other things, the results of field research and the survey of citizens living in the territory covered by the plan. There's a difference in concept. We ask that it be in the law and that it be a legal obligation, not that it depends on the goodwill of those who make that concept of the plan. Also, I would like to return to the amendment that I spoke about to Article 35, which we have proposed from the LDP, as regards the adoption of regional spatial plans or the possibility that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will bring these regional spatial plans for those regions that are not Belgrade and the AP. We think it should be done by the Serbian Parliament, that it should not be done by the Serbian government. I would like the minister to answer why this cannot be done, why the Assembly cannot decide on these regional spatial plans.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25942	The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mico Rogovic and Igor Becic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25943	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens, with my colleague, Mić Rogovic, I have submitted an amendment to add to article 50 the views of the 4th and 5th, which reads - to the availability of citizens and copying the planning documents from this article all the provisions of Article 41 are applied. Item 5 - if 51% entered from the territory covered by the proposal for a document, it cannot be adopted by written publication of its disagreement with the proposed plan document. The 50th is about public insight into the plans. We've had practice that very often citizens disagree with the proposed arrangement of a piece or block, they go into street protests because their objections are not accepted. The adoption of this amendment would avoid street protests and encourage dialogue between citizens and local self-government and investors and serve as a mechanism for raising civil awareness and active participation of citizens in local self-government policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25944	National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 52nd amendment. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25945	Article 52 provides for a matter relating to the Commission for Plans. All municipalities in Serbia have an obligation to set up a plan documents commission when they adopt. It defines members of the Committee on Plans as proposing local self-government, i.e. local self-government. One-third of the members are proposed by the minister responsible for urban affairs and spatial planning. That doesn't apply to municipalities from the territory of the AP Vojvodina. In an explanation of the rejection of the amendments, it has been said that the amendment is not accepted for reasons that are still in force, as well as the proposal for this law, the AP's competence in the area of spatial planning and urbanism is precisely determined. This cannot be a valid explanation, just because the law on the powers of the AP Vojvodina did not come to this National Assembly and this cannot be the reason why this amendment is rejected. There is reason for the minister in charge of planning and urban affairs to propose a third of the board of plans in all units of local self-government, equally in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and in the territory of all Serbia. Also, I believe that it is necessary to limit the maximum number of members of the Committee on Plans by municipality to number nine. We had a situation and today we have these situations that vary from four to 20. I think that the colour should be corrected by limiting the number of members of the commission. It makes sense to be a number nine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25946	National MP Milan Lapcevic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 54 and 54. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25947	Article 54 defines the term – location permit. In fact, at the start of the construction, a party wishing to build any object addresses the competent authority of the municipality with a requirement to obtain conditions for the development of the main project. So far, it has been called mainly urban permit or urban conditions for construction, or design. I don't think the time of the location permit is adequate, and I think it would be more logical to call it urban conditions or permits. It's just the conditions for designs, not any permit for a particular location.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25948	Members of the 54th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. On the previous amendment? I'm sorry. We return to the amendment submitted by MP Milan Lapčević, the amendment is addressed above members 54th and Article 54th. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25949	I'm using the time of the head of the parliamentary group. So, when it comes to this amendment, since there's a termology of the type of location permit or urban license, we're here to advocate a solution to the urban permit. I'm not saying that the term for the location permit is entirely unfortunate. That makes sense, because it separates, on the one hand, the previous question before obtaining a building permit that technically refers to a building that is being built. This is about building an object at certain locations. From that point of view, languageically speaking, that sounds logical. However, that term is not too happy, although I did not say it was the happiest. It's just, I don't know what bothered to keep this building approval, which was previously implemented, which is essentially a location permit, because based on it can't be built. It speaks only of this, it cannot build a specific object based on a concrete project, but only to talk about what can be done. However, this all reminds us of a completely wrong concept that rules in our right and not far from this law. Namely, the principle that the minister highlighted in his introductory word superfies solo cedit, i.e. that objects follow the fate of the land, there was no half-introduced here, even though there was an attempt. Although it has tried to do something with some hybrid solutions, we haven't solved the basic question here when it comes to land. It is a matter of land ownership and a simple, simple principle, which is applied everywhere in the normal world, which is that the landowner builds his own building facility on his land. By trafficking the land, the object is changed, and those two things can't be separated. The separation of these two things, ownership of land and ownership of the facility, makes the whole confusion. It's a chain circuit this country can't get out of, and it can't even get out of the ministry that proposed this law. It is probably known to the minister that his predecessors tried, and above all those who belonged to the DSS, not in that ministry, but in another, to make one concept of the planning and construction law based entirely on this principle, according to the reputation of Central European law, especially German and Austrian, that several NGOs participated in the project, which led to their final limits in terms of the essence of the proposal, in order for this matter to develop, and then in your proposal, compared to what was left behind, there was an important retraction in this whole business. You've come back to the old compromises, the old way of thinking, and instead of being close to the idea of partial restitution, I'm not talking about a general restitution that needs to be passed by a special law, instead of having a close idea of partial restitution regarding building land and that the category is divided into land that was built and not built, so that a complete restitution of this law of undeveloped building land has been carried out, you have rejected this whole idea. She's not in this law. Now that we're talking about the location permit, the urban permit and the other questions that are asked here and what are termologically, the question simply arises – how do you think from the chain car where you find yourself even coming out? How do you plan to carry out legalization all the way? How do you mean to do this manner, this way that was practically withdrawn here and inherited by Mr. Schumartz, who was disastrous and defeated, who expects citizens to engage in something where the state has mutilated him from the very beginning? You expect him to react, in the confusion of regulations and delaying deadlines, for which he cannot determine, after all, where his limit is, where that dead line is when he can react. With such interference, you cause illegal construction to continue. On the other hand, the same state in the Criminal Code foresees a criminal act of lawless construction. It turns out, in the end, that the entire effort of the state is a complete goal of the state so that someone would not be wrongly built to be arrested. Is that what you're proposing to the citizens? In doing so, people have constantly seen physical faces, and I wonder what will happen to objects such as the object on the mouth, what will happen to the famous Belgrade bridge, which is so much talked about and which Belgrade needs not one but three – who will go to jail there? You keep doing something through retroactive provisions, this code is full of them, because there's always a guilty Drina who needs to be corrected, and by the way you fix the wrong Drina, you're making a new bandage. This law, ladies and gentlemen, is not good. He's a good try, but he'll obviously be barren. We'll see you in three or four years on the same subject, unfortunately. There's a step, but they're not great because you don't go all the way and that's a big problem. When you don't go all the way and when you make rotten compromises in certain places, then you make rotten solutions. These rotten solutions will crack about the spine of those whose interest is that this country is working properly, which are primarily citizens, those citizens who are interested in building something or creating some basic conditions for life. That's what's gonna happen in the end. That's why I've intervened here on this termological issue, and, of course, I'll get back to you a little while later, to talk about something else, when there's something concrete about the particulars of the provisions that you wrote in this law, which are so written, that they appear to be written for specific investors. But we'll talk about it later.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25950	The remaining time at the disposal of the parliamentary group president is five minutes and 40 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25951	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP has tried to fix a little bit of Article 54, in Section 4, to add point 4). This would be only in so far as this Member would be more clear as regards the documentation required to request a specific authorisation from the competent authority. I'd like to remind you that in 2003, a law on planning and construction was passed. The law provided for quite serious conditions, so rather complicated conditions for an individual to obtain a certain permit and to obtain a building permit, an urban permit, and so on, to enter the system and legalize his object, he acted according to the law. Since 2003, however, many buildings have been built without valid permits, so it is illegal construction. This illegal construction does not just mean that buildings are built without the necessary permits, but in reality it means that they may have been built in places where this construction was not intended and that the infrastructure did not monitor the construction activity. That's why we have settlements that are not functional at all and are not really appropriate, are not civilizedly suitable for the lives and housing of people in those areas. For this reason, our cities have neighborhoods that are suitable for avoidance; for this reason we have a case to build on the rinks; for this reason we happen to have some fourths quite threatened by the flood, to crash buildings because it is not controlled in time where the buildings are built. For this reason, one such serious, essential, basic law on the arrangement of space and construction must be clear, precise and concrete, and above all must be receptive and comprehensible to those to whom it applies. Why did we actually submit this amendment? For this reason, the documentation required would be completed, as we point 4) in fact propose to submit, along with a copy of the plot plan, a copy of the underground installation catastra, as well as proof of property rights to the building land, a software solution or a sketch of the facility. The government rejected the amendment and said that it was aimed at avoiding this member's excessive obligation to file a request. However, following this point 3) in Article 54 of this Act, it is said that the application for the issue of a local authorisation must include data on an object to be built, and in particular on the planned disposition, type and purpose of the facility, etc. Therefore, in addition to requiring the applicant to submit this documentation under point 1), (2) and (3), he must describe the object in the application. In order to avoid the complications that can arise, because we do not know who will submit all this request, that he will not know specifically how to describe the object, why it is a problem to specify under point 4 – to submit a software solution or a sketch of an object. We don't feel like we're allowed to go crazy with the law. We must not go too far with some solutions that will only complicate future procedures for issuing location permits, but we must clarify and simplify the process. What we have proposed by amendment is that it is just directed in that direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25952	Three minutes and 15 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Arsen Đurić, Milan Lapčević, Vladimir Milentijevic, Radojko Obradović, Miroslav Petkovic, Slobodan Samardžić, Milica Radović and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 57th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25953	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group felt that, both in Article 57, and in Article 1 and in Article 2, an amendment should be submitted, so that, in the end, one and the other attitudes instead of the point should be stuck and the text "or for which the envisaged plan of detailed regulation was not adopted". Article 1 refers to the part outside covering the plan, and the other to the scope of the plan. Before I read just an explanation, I would like to say in principle that you have changed the terminology that has so far ruled in this area and that this will cause great problems, and for those who apply the law, and for the citizens themselves, and above all I mean citizens who come to the competent state authority to ask permission to build their own facility. For decades, we've had one terminology related to this area, and now that's going to be a bit of a problem. I think you've just succumbed to some laws in the environment, which you shouldn't have done. So our argument is that if the spatial plan provides for a urban plan, because the general regulation plan provides for a detailed regulation plan, and these plans have not been adopted, we have accepted this term, the location permit can be issued if there are conditions for its release. In this way, the investor does not have to wait for a proper urban plan to be adopted in order to obtain a local permit and start the investment process. Otherwise, or unless the planned urban plan is adopted, such circumstances are usually caused by illegal construction. So, we do not doubt your good will to want to prevent illegal construction and to create conditions to be built in a legal way, but we are not sure that this law – even as that forester's law did not first of all allow legalisation, but it did not allow any easier and faster access to permits – to make it possible. It's simply because you don't worry about legal norms first, you don't try to simplify things, but to that extent you complicate them, that some major architect or some urbanist can really do whatever he wants without anyone who isn't in that matter being able to get into the essence of the matter. What my colleague before me, I don't know exactly who was talking about, is that we're always coughing for events and suggesting some laws that simply have to legalize some situations that already exist, along with this huge urban chaos that exists in certain municipalities, especially in Vozdovac and Kukarica in Belgrade, that's what I know. But there's Usce, there's Luka, and here we see that she was in the game and selling the Fair, and building and later making plans according to the will of whoever would possibly buy that Fair. That's what we really shouldn't allow, but the law will make it possible again and again to whose harm; to the detriment of the entire state that is left without great resources because of what we're doing. I almost had one duel on one television just about the urban mafia, and then one very invited person on the subject, who is otherwise fighting corruption, said - why is there no predetermined location for construction? So, we know, we want to expand Belgrade, we need them in the next 10-15 years, two or three settlements, so we're going to go north, south, I don't know where we're going to build, we're going to prepare a location, we're going to bring water, we're going to make roads, we're going to sewers, and then people can buy land and they can build normally. That would be really ideal. There's as much as I know in Canada, there's in Vienna, but we don't have it, and I don't know when it's gonna be. So that kind of thing should be the idea of a guide or a goal that we should pursue. That's why things like this happen to you that people in need have to do things, and some competent authorities look through their fingers, and of course there's, you know, corruption huge on every level, starting from local to republican. Several very important mafias in Serbia, along with this urban mafia, have both pharmaceuticals, tobacco and many more. In one of your presentations, and I really believe that you want to create conditions, at least when the state invests, that everything is done in accordance with plans and permits, so I ask you - how was it invested from the NIP in five kilometers of construction of a certain road that Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic built in a village called Bajcetina to the house of Tomislav Nikolic? How did you not react to such a thing? It's not just a waste of money, it's a way to go everywhere, but it's built out of the resources of local self-government, and then it should have permission to build that road.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25954	Six minutes and 30 seconds of time used by the parliamentary group, 48 minutes and 50 seconds are available. National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted an amendment to the title and articles 58 and 59. The word is made by MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to delete members 58 and 59, as well as a title and a subtitle above Article 58. I have already given an explanation when I was talking about Article 12, that spatial plans should include measures to implement the plans and that it is unnecessary to further administrative and financial compliance with the planning and implementation process. There is concern that appropriate documents will be brought only for those plans where political interests exist, so certain areas will be neglected. I noted then and would now repeat that the imbalance in development is a problem expressed in Serbia and that there are whole areas that are neglected, in which very little is invested, are not developing infrastructureally, or in any other respect. For the country itself and its development, it is very important that it develops evenly, because it is the only way to satisfy the interests of all Serbian citizens. All parts of the country need to develop, to have a good travel network, a higher percentage of water and sewerage coverage, basic health, school and other necessary institutions. The ruling majority can prevent the development of areas where other parties are in power by not drawing up and bringing a document to implement a spatial plan from those areas. We can get into a situation where the parties in power can fully slow down and fully paralyze the development of certain areas, i.e. municipalities, and therefore I suggest that these members be deleted in 58 and 59.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25956	The 62nd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted an amendment proposing to delete members from 71 to 81. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is from Ambassador Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25957	This amendment that we have proposed on behalf of the LDP is one of the few amendments that we knew in advance that the Government would not accept, but this was a way to show our disagreement with the concept of the Republic spatial planning agency. We believe that this agency itself is unnecessary, that is, to take some of the powers that the ministry can do without the agency itself. Also, this agency has been given too much authority, it does administrative work, for the sake of plans, earns from its competence, and conducts professional control of its own activities, or one institution manages, gives itself jobs, performs and conducts the tasks and controls of those tasks it conducts. It's an unacceptable and illegal solution for us, and we knew that this amendment couldn't and the government wouldn't adopt it, but we wanted this way, I repeat, to disagree with the concept of the existence of an agency like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25958	National MP Milan Lapcevic submitted the amendment to Article 72. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that it has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Arsen Đurić, Milan Lapčević, Vladimir Milentijevic, Radojko Obradović, Miroslav Petkovic, Zoran Nikolic, Zeljko Tomic and Milan Dimitrijevic together submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 74 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25959	Article 74 defines the responsibility of the Spatial Planning Agency and in Article 2 is said - the basic general act adopted by the Agency is the statute, which is adopted by the Management Board, with the opinion of the Executive Authority of the Autonomous Province and with the consent of the Government. I think that this second position needs to be changed by the government giving its consent to the statute adopted by the board of directors, but I think it is completely unnecessary for the Executive Authority of the province to give an opinion on the statutes of the agency. If we are guided by this logic, then we could come into a situation that for every agency, any public enterprise or any republican body that should adopt certain acts, the executive body of the Autonomous Province gives an opinion, and I think it is completely absurd and resembles those provisions of the 1974 Charitable Constitution, where the province wondered about everything in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, much more than the state itself had to do with it. In the light of the amendments, it is said that the law on planning and construction provides for an identical provision that has been taken over from the bill, which is not contrary to the Constitution and established competences. I'm not talking about whether this provision is contrary to the Constitution, but if we want to have a law that is effective and rational, I think this kind of thing is absolutely unnecessary and that it's not necessary to have an opinion on the statutes of the Republic Business Planning Agency given by the executive body of an autonomous province.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25960	Members of the 76th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Arsen Đurić, Milan Lapčević, Vladimir Milentijevic, Radojko Obradović, Miroslav Petkovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milica Radović and Jovan Palalic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to the 77th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25961	In accordance with Article 77(4), it is said that the Management Board shall establish compensations for members of the Management Board and the Director, and later on, it shall be said that the statute of the Agency shall be closer to determining the competence, work and remuneration for the members of the Management Board and the Director, as well as other issues related to the work of the Management Board. Therefore, it is obvious that here in this article, in two places, there is a discussion of the remuneration of members of the Management Board and the Director, and I think it is absolutely unnecessary for it to stand so, so as to lead to confusion, i.e. this member can be misused by saying in point 4) that the Management Board determines compensations for board members and directors, and the statute of the Agency prescribes remunerations for board members and directors. There may be certain situations and abuses of a certain member and, for example, members of the board of directors will set themselves up certain income receipts, as members of the board of directors, and may also determine work fees, which would be double remuneration, so we can come to a situation that, for example, the Agency's board of directors determines astronomical incomes, plus fees and bonuses, as we have in many agencies and regulatory bodies established by the Government, for example, works, the Agency for Flight Control, where we have received 500 thousand dinars. In order for these things not to happen, members of the Agency's board of directors may have compensation for their work, but they should not have incomes to specify this, so that there is no abuse and all to the harm of the Serbian budget and citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25962	National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 78th amendment. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25963	In Article 78, it is also necessary to specify in point 4), which speaks of the director's responsibilities, that the director adopts an act on internal organisation and job systematisation, and that is where the words "to which consent is given by the board of directors". It is precisely why the Management Board is founded, that there is, that it controls, manages the company and in some way controls the work of directors and the original competence of the Management Board is precisely this, that it adopts annual work plans, gives consent to the systematization of jobs, the budget of the firm, etc., and it is necessary to stand here "to give consent also to the act on internal organisation and job systemization". Because there are not a small number of cases where the directors of public enterprises, institutions, agencies, independently adopt acts on the internal organisation, on job systematization, employ too many people, and there is absolutely no one to control it. In order to avoid such a situation, which is possible and which unfortunately occurred in the previous period, it is necessary for the Management Board to have that kind of responsibility to control the work of the Director, to give consent to the act on job systematisation, to avoid the possibility of abuse, excessive employment, which, unfortunately, is the case in almost every public enterprise in all sectors, all agencies, and all of this is a burden on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. on taxpayers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25964	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic to Article 87. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to Article 87 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25965	Article 87 defines that when the land of agricultural land is refurbished into building land, and among other things, it is said in paragraph 4, that the owner of the cadastrian plot to which the purpose has been changed should pay compensation for the re-use of land prior to the issue of the local authorisation. I think it is necessary here to specify in which cases the owner of the agricultural land is obliged to pay compensation for the transfer to the building land, because it may happen that the local self-government executes its own planning documents and a request to the competent ministry to repurpose land of a particular kind, where it will force the owner of agricultural land to pay for the re-use into construction, although the owner of the agricultural land did not ask for its land to be changed from agricultural to construction. I don't see any reason why they'd make a commitment unless he asked. In cases where the owner of the agricultural land asks for the re-use of its land to be built, it is logical that it will be re-purposed and paid, but in cases where it does not require it by its own request, it will happen at the request or in cases where another body, i.e. local self-government, does not make sense to burden a man whose land is to pay a fee for the re-use of land.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25966	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 88th amendment. Does anyone want a word? I have the application of the Parliament of People's Parliament of Judita Popovic. Did you want to follow the previous amendment? (Judita Popovic, from the post: Yes. I apologize, MP, only that a letter from Judita Popovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25967	Well, yes, this amendment of colleagues really makes sense, and I really don't see why it wasn't accepted. I would just like to point out that the Law on determining construction land in the cities and settlements of city character from 1968 did nationalize agricultural land in certain cities and settlements. In particular, this happened both in Zrenjanin and in suburban towns around Zrenjanin, a particular place called Mužlja. In 1968, all agricultural land was simply renationalized by this law, in fact it was nationalised and its purpose changed. So instead of agricultural land, instead of fields, that land became building land. So, since 1968, people who used the country as agricultural land before and continued to use it as agricultural land and today use it, do not actually process fields, but process building land. What's going on now? It happens that local self-government is asking these people, who are now users of this building land, not owners, who, hopefully, will change this law and become owners, to pay compensation for changing the purpose of that land. Therefore, although this position of the 4th of this article provides that the fee is to be paid only after a local authorisation is requested, i.e. prior to the issue of the local authorisation, it is not specified to this member what it means before the authorisation is granted. Does that mean the moment when that permit is requested, or does that mean before and at the moment when that re-purpose is done? Because it's about a longer period of time when it's been redeployed to this day, so, in 1968, if those who in fact lost their right of ownership, or lost their fields, and they got the right to use on construction land, now they have to pay for that re-use, and in any case in this position it says - before issuing a local permit. So, the time has already come to pay for that repurpose, and the local self-government is thus interpreting the rules so far, so are they still obliged to pay that repurpose even though they have not yet requested those local permits? Therefore, it would be good to specify the exact moment when payment obligations arise. There is another example of what the LDP points out whenever it submits amendments or whenever it declares laws, that the laws must be concrete and clear, not too broad and incomprehensible. I think there should be a little improvement in the solution in this article, because in Serbia we have cities and settlements of city character where people adhered to the law, where plans, spatial plans, urban plans were made. Zrenjanin is one of those cities where it was governed by law, so Zrenjanin was in the system and Zrenjanin always respected all the regulations that were required to be built on the basis of a building permit, and used permits for safe citizens, and is a large percentage of safe citizens in Zrenjanin. You shouldn't punish those places, these cities, and the municipalities where people were safe and obeyed the law and did everything according to positive regulations. For this reason, we propose that this amendment should be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25968	Five minutes of time for the LDP parliamentary group has been used. Was the time used by an authorised representative? I'm sorry, then there's six minutes left to go. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 88th amendment. Would you like a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the 88th member to which the SRS has submitted the amendment defines what is meant under built and what is not built-up land. When it comes to building land, it does not differ from the way it was defined in the previous law and is quite precise. We had a need to intervene in your concept of construction land. You've taken the provisions of the previous law, and we want to turn what's de facto into deura. Undeveloped building land could be the only building land on which there are no buildings, regardless of whether they are built legally, illegally or temporarily. We are expressing reasonable doubt that this will be a very good position for abuse, for the creation of new mob groups. If someone managed to launch it and take very high courier positions between a pair of excellencies of mobsters, such as Sreten Jocic and Stanko Subotic Cane, it is a presumption, and we in the SRS are responsible for saying that this could not be done without compensation. If someone intervened between these powerful men and the owners of life and death and capital in Serbia, he did not work without compensation, that he had earned big money and now probably along the highway, next to the airport – I am also talking about the city municipality of Zemun, where we knew 3-4 months before the City Assembly introduced temporary measures that there would be an emergency election in that municipality – all with a purpose and intention to invest the funds in unbuilt construction land and to fertilise the capital several times and increase. I think here this amendment should for these reasons that I have stated I accept, to prevent such and similar actions from happening in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25970	The amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic to Article 92. Does anyone want a word? MP Mirko Munjic has signed up. Mico Rogovic, amendment of MP Mica Rogovic. Yeah, you want a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, Mr. Minister, I know today would probably be better off this Saturday afternoon if you weren't here. I'm taking a chance on behalf of those who haven't apologized to you, and you're working at this time, I'm sorry. Sometimes when we come out of this hall after midnight and look at the footage of assembly sessions on the Second Channel, it seems to me that sometimes at a good time when there have been a lot of sporting events, so they rephrase many important sports events or other important events, that it seems like old times sometimes to me – but I know it's not, since I'm coming from these benches at that time – so I'd like to ask myself, did the Assembly get that kind of significance so that they can be rephrased into the late hours of such important events? I'm taking the opportunity to be here, the last time I discussed in principle this chapter of construction land happened by accident that you weren't in the O.R., and I want to point out once again the importance of this chapter and the essence of the comment that this chapter deserved a special law. I must point out once again, both for the sake of the citizens and for your sake, that the law of the 1960s, which the previous colleague also spoke of, which had long been in force, prohibited the transfer for the purpose of agricultural land, especially the first category, to the category of building land. In some environments, and especially the environments from which I come, it was impossible even for tourist purposes, objects that are in the sixth, seventh or eighth category, meaning in the last category of agricultural land, to be distributed due to the construction of such essential buildings in the building land category. The only exception then was the establishment of public purpose for infrastructure facilities. In our last 20 years, especially in the last eight years, all under the guise of reforms, a large number of hectares of agricultural land, and agricultural land of the first class, translated into the category of building land. As a former counterpart noted, the important shares of Bezanija Kosa in the area of the airport, bypasses around Belgrade, where the country was bought from private property for a very small value, maximum of two and a half thousand marks, now because of the importance of these spaces and ropes between the owners of large capital and local self-government or ministries, and the importance of these parcels, were won at the value of literally moving from 500,000 to 2m euros. We're not opponents of the construction of local roads, but we are opponents of this kind of scheme of local self-government and ministries regarding these facilities. We will try to make sure that even in the municipality of Zemun in the next period really for all the people who built the facilities to survive, to secure the roof over their heads, legalize, build infrastructure and hope for the help of the state and your ministry, but we really can't have an understanding for the people of local self-government who are on certain premises, on certain building land... I think you should warn the gentleman, Mrs. Comic. I'm talking and hearing what he's throwing, and it's impossible for you not to hear what he's throwing at. We cannot allow this abuse to be the subject of legalisation, i.e. renting construction land for 99 years under extremely favourable circumstances for certain parking spaces, buses or such. We'll take special care of that. The very views of the law state that even in the area of building land, this law does indeed have short-term intentions, i.e. in view of this provision between the owners of large-scale capital and the situation that they used construction land for almost 50 years at very small values or rental prices, and that this situation provided by the law will be able to legalise both agricultural building land and building land under lease, and that this act makes it impossible to practically restitution of land, all these are the intentions that say that this law has a one-time use. I also have to remind you of this example that I cited, and it applies to someone who, for example, wants to sell an apartment, and it issues it for a certain amount that will allow it to get that money that would otherwise be sold for a certain number of years, five to seven years. What would he decide? Normally, you'd decide to keep betraying that apartment. That's why I'm telling you, Mr. Minister, that from the area of lease of building land at normal prices and circumstances, you can also raise serious funds for restitution, and for health, education, social, pension contributions, and for part of the repayment of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia. Now that I'm on the amendment to Article 92, by adding Article 4, the intention is to improve the ratio of local self-government units in the area of land planning until the moment the facility is finished. Because we have witnessed no number of situations that certain companies or private persons have bought under really normal circumstances this land and that they have a situation that is next to them a dump, so they have been prevented from doing their business in addition to garbage dumps and that what all involves the infrastructure of the local self-government unit did not respect. For this reason, this submitted position on Article 92, i.e. by addition in the form of Article 4, which is proposed, is extremely clear, that the identification of the unit of local self-government in relation to the building land in relation to the arrangements, but indeed the arrangements of the same, and not only is it sold at all costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25972	You have two minutes and 30 seconds left as an authorised representative. The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25973	Mr. Minister, I'd like you to take a look at Section 93 of Section 3. At the beginning of this attitude, it is said: “The purpose of the building land... ’; it should, in my opinion, be ‘the purpose of the building land’. If this is a technical mistake, I'd like you to make it clear that it's a technical mistake, that it's correct, that it doesn't get into the integral part of the text of the law, and if it isn't, then it would be some kind of linguistic illogicality, and it would also be worth saying. However, this is not why I asked you to delete this attitude, but make it one of the reasons. The objective of this amendment is to indicate that the purpose of land should be determined solely by plan and that it falls within the scope of planning. Why is the intention even inserted here where compensation is talked about? In Article 93(3), it is simply taxing that the purpose of building land can be housing, commercial affairs, manufacturing activity and other purposes. What does the definition of “other purposes ” mean? This word can bring such confusion and such extensive interpretation, that it can then also be the subject of various abuses and manipulations. Therefore, all relevant factors from which, according to the character of the settlement and other elements will also be determined by the plan and shall include the compensation for the construction of the building land.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25974	The 93rd Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Nebojsa Ceran. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 94 of the amendment, National MP Maja Lausevic submitted. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Arsen Đurić, Milan Lapčević, Vladimir Milentjevic, Radojko Obradović, Miroslav Petkovic, Zoran Nikolic, Zeljko Tomic and Milan Dimitrijevic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 94 be added after article 94. Does anyone want a word? The word is from Ambassador Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25975	Article 94 of this Law refers first and foremost to the regulation of construction land and it is a fairly large member, and we ourselves do not have any more serious objections, but in the last position it is said that the competent authority is obliged to comply with contractual obligations within 30 days, or to conclude a contract within 30 days of the decision being made. We just felt that it was necessary to strengthen this by certain concrete measures, and we suggested that Article 94a, which votes to allow, is added after Article 94a. the consents issued by the national authorities, local self-government and public undertakings under the obligation to respond within 30 days to the request made by the investor, and that if the competent service issuing the consent does not respond to the investor for consent, the competent manager shall be a mandatory officer who handles the subject suspends from work. If he doesn't, then the manager himself may be suspended by the competent ministry. And what's important is that the investor to whom the damage has been done because of the lack of urgency of the administration has the right to claim compensation from the party that has done the damage. In an explanation of why the amendment is not accepted, you said that this law clearly determines the responsibility of officials in the competent authority of the administration, and it is true that this law is, in a concrete way, calculating with the responsibility of officials, but we believe that it is not enough. So, absolutely if we start from the point of view that corruption is very much in this area, what happens when it goes 30 days? It's a very common case. It's an invitation to the investor's administration to think a little bit, to think more and open up a space for corruption, that if it is paid, bribed, then these permits can be issued within a quick deadline, because we have cases to wait a year or two days. We believe, absolutely if it is the desire of all of us to serve this and that it is in the function of fighting corruption in this area, that this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25976	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević to Article 96. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25977	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, this law that has several continents, not to say several laws under one law, among other things, defines city building land in this area. City building land is one of the most important resources of the economy at this time and developmental for our country. It has always been the subject of the interest of all ruling furniture and, unfortunately, the source of corruption in all possible authorities to date. This article in 96 defines alienation or borrowing of building land. I want to talk about this article exactly in accordance with what I just said, because it seems to me that this article can be further opened up to various abuses. Namely, the first attitude states that the purchase, alienation or lease of building land in public property is to be carried out by public competition or by collecting offers by public advertising. I should not mention the case of Mayor Zrenjanin, the case of Usce and many other public affairs that were created by the possibility of building land being given through the collection of offers. The collection of offers is a less open form of public procedure and we believe that if we want to eliminate corruption in this area, we should delete the possibility of giving building land in public property by collecting offers. You know, five or six buddies get together, give five or six different offers, and then one by one they give up until they get to the least. That's how every possible sale and issue of building land is being set up, various locations. I think this thing should be erased. An even greater possibility for corruption and an incredible formulation lies at the end of this article, which is large, where it is said that the building land in public property can be alienated or leased by direct contract in various cases, including in the case of obtaining a building permit to the owner of an illegally built facility, which has submitted the request within the time limits prescribed by this law, if the building of that facility is in accordance with the conditions. Be careful what you open up to this formulation? I can make, I mean, I can't, but someone who's close to you can build their own facility, be it individual, and in many cases a residential building, a residential building on municipal land, hand over the main project and request for legalisation, and ask the municipality to guess with it to sell him land. Is that possible? Is that normal? I suppose it can be given public building land through a direct contract to those who built their property on their land and partly entered public land, not to fully build a building on public land and then to deal with the municipality to rent that land, or to buy it. In an explanation of the rejection of the amendment, you said that the amendment is not accepted, because by accepting this amendment at point 2) the largest number of legalisation requirements would be rejected, which is completely incorrect. The largest number of legalisation requirements refers to individual housing that was built on the owner's own land, not on state land. If this thing goes as planned, that building land can be leased, only an additional possibility is opened for corruption in this area, and according to those tycoons that built housing and business facilities on state land, without any paper, they are now applying for legalisation, and you are allowing them to get this land by direct contract. It will be scandalous if this area is arranged in this way and will open up many affairs and abuses, money laundering and whatnot.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25978	You've used two minutes and 40 seconds of the MP's group. Member of the 96th Amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Gojkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25979	Madam President, Mr Minister, members of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like first to say that I will use part of the time of the parliamentary group, but that I will not report by all amendments, since the amendments I have submitted have one essence and relate to one topic, so that I will try to be as clear as possible, but also to save as possible more time as possible. We heard a lot of criticism at the expense of the ministry and Mr. Dulic's work. I'm one of those who's also going to say some of the criticism, but before I start talking about it, I want to say my own personal attitude, but also my position as SPO. We believe in the SPO that you are one of the best ministers in the government, so we fully support the work, desire and courage you show in solving certain problems. We also believe that these are the same problems that you face problems that your predecessors either had no desire or guts to face. I'll say that issuing building permits, urban plans, legalisation are things, topics that have been abandoned for many years and have been the subject of huge corruption as such, but what's much worse, and serious rejection of both foreign and domestic investors. The most devastating data in all this is that a recent analysis by the World Bank shows that out of 188 countries Serbia is in 184th place at the speed of issuing building permits. Also, Mr. Minister, we welcome your intention that you will not allow those who have illegally built this road to be in some kind of privileged position and pass cheaper than those people who have worked fair and honest their whole lives. We also support that objects built on protected natural goods and on a foreign country will never be legalized. I must admit that I am surprised by the collapse of certain MPs at the minister of criticism on this bill, and all in connection with the restitution law, which unfortunately has not yet been passed. I say that I am surprised because individuals, who have made a variety of objections, show how underestimating the citizens, the same ones who chose them, and why they are presently in parliament. They underestimate them in a way that they think that these citizens forgot that the presidents of their parties, not so long ago, were vice-presidents of the government, were resolute ministers with huge powers, without even moving their fingers to solve one of the most important problems in our history and helped pass a law on restitution. I must say that, watching some MPs take care of the law on restitution, bringing out various facts, has made me cry, but I have seen that most of them, apart from the honorable exceptions, such as Mr Batic, who have submitted amendments to this law, could easily understand how many crocodile tears they are. As far as the SPO is concerned, we have submitted 15 amendments to the law on regulation of space and construction. Everyone's talking about the relationship between this law and the restitution law. Only submit amendments to members from 96 to 113, and the substance is almost identical. The most amendments and the most controversy, of course with us, created the topic of alienation and leased building land in public property, as well as the conversion of rights of use to property, with or without compensation. I think that the explanation that we have given, concerning the vast majority of these members, is as follows – that the provisions of these members are not applied to the construction and construction land in public property, which is in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Registration and Recording of Disposal of Assets by the former owners and their legal followers, neatly reported and recorded in the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. Our argument is that the Law on the Registration and Recording of Disposal of Assets provides for the obligation to register the seized property no later than 30.06.2006. In accordance with the same law, the Republic Property Directorate established a record of the seized property. The amendment proposes a restriction at the disposal of this property. In addition, the burden of understanding of this matter, at least on us from the SPO, is that a few years ago a law on denationalisation concerning religious institutions was passed, i.e. Church. It is a well-known position of the SPO when it comes to churches. We also defended the churches when those who went to them today visited them in a wide circle. However, it is necessary to be honest with its citizens and to say that this was a typical political law, which today brings a kind of discrimination against its citizens. Discriminations in the sense that the property is returned to churches, but that the property is still not returned to the citizens to whom the property has been seized since 1941 and beyond. (President): Excuse me, you'll have to do it again, please, the card, six minutes has been up until now. ) By declaring the total land seized for the public property of local self-government, the last possibility for restitution of the building land is lifted for the original owners of cadastrian parcels. If it had been done as SPO has been proposing for years, firstly passed a law on restitution, as well as a law on property and other real rights, as system laws, firstly what would have happened, it would have been resolved to break the continuity of property by violent seizure during and after World War II, political will and decrees of the then ruling oligarchy. What may be even more important, legally and legitimately acquired ownership rights would be permanently protected. The third thing, which the SPO deeply believes, is that the restitution law was passed before the privatisation law, so that the effects would be much greater than the effects we have today from the privatisation law. This model would be an obvious indication that the political system in Serbia has transformed into a democratic and that the middle class of the civil layer is the basis and stability of every normal state, as well as Serbia. By reading the analysis, Mr. Dulic, I think the analysis of your ministry, as similar problems have been solved in the surrounding countries, I must say that the analysis is excellent and that the practice in those countries has greatly strengthened the strength of the arguments you used in the defense of this law. However, Serbia is at least slightly different from the surrounding countries. First of all, much more property is sought and, secondly, the wounds that remained during the confiscation of that property are much deeper. Thus, we cannot quite reflect everything that is in the environment and on Serbia. We need to look through the eyes of the old owners for a moment. Just one brief retrospective of events. By 1941, there were people whose property was taken away, people who suffered only because they thought differently, what they had, and what they inherited from their relatives. These people have lived as second-class citizens for many years, for 65 years they have waited to correct the injustice. The beginning of multi-party wars, again most of them and their families go to war, as well as another normal world that had no protection. During that time, a group of recents is enormously rich. He's taking huge assets, and today they have a chance to buy the property that was supposed to be the subject of restitution. I know your argument is pretty strong. But we have to solve this problem in order to look through these people's eyes. I want to say something that many others don't say, which is that these people are mostly nice, correct people. Very often frightened today, 65 years after all this is happening. Unfortunately, they are very poorly organized and they are not people who cut off their fingers to reach their goals. However, this must not be their lack. For them, as for us from the SPO, restitution is not only about correcting injustice, but also about destroying a system based on war crimes, and a crime against its own people. That is why it is a struggle for principles which is the basis of the SPO programme. I'll finish, Mr. Dullich, I know you come from an honorable family, and I know you understand everything I've said. We do not doubt the good will to solve the accumulated problems and, of course, we want to help with all this. I suppose this law will be passed, too. Because of this, we expect you to invest your authority, which is not small, to have the law on restitution passed by the end of the year, and to be fairer and fairer than those that have so far proposed to us exclusively as something which has been a fruit of political propaganda and an opportunity to collect cheap points. We want all of us to do this not because Olli Rehn and the European Union are asking us to do it, but because it is a commitment to our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25980	Mr. Dulic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25981	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have reached this set of members of the law concerning the most scrupulous subject she's working on, and in the debate, in principle, I've talked about it. I'd like to speak to you at first so that we may not enter into a debate later on about each amendment individually. First of all, I come from a family that was not only a subject of nationalization, but also a confiscation of complete property. My grandfather was declared a common enemy and was killed in 1951. My family was one of the richest in the area I came from, and in the end my grandmother with four underage kids ended up on the street and worked as a housekeeper until retirement. I have absolute understanding for all those who today, and through this law and awaiting the law of restitution, are waiting for their corrections to be wronged, not only by property, but also by the injustices involved in the rehabilitation of their fathers, grandparents, grandparents and mothers. It's something that was absolutely personal when we talked about the restitution law having to be passed as soon as possible. Be assured that I will personally advocate that injustice must be corrected. However, when we wrote this law, we came from the fact that we as a ministry are competent to resolve property relations in the building land and that as a ministry we are determined to resolve all issues concerning building land. We are not happy that we came with this law before they passed the Law on Public Property and the Law on Restitution. We're sure that the model and the concept that we've offered should first and foremost follow the principle that we've achieved from the very beginning. We went first and foremost into making an analysis showing the experience of restitution in the countries of Eastern Europe and in the countries of the former Yugoslavia and we came to a model that was least unsuccessful, when it comes to solving property over building land in all countries that have passed the process of nationalisation, confiscation and all that has been wrongs from the past and later in the past 20 years, the process of restitution, denationalisation and return of construction land. It's our fault that we've been hit by different associations dealing with the issue of restitution, and at no time have we set foot in the restitution model. We've only gone into something that's a matter of fundamental recognition of certain rights acquired over the past 60 years and which now have to fit into a model that's applied to this law, which is superfies solo sedit, i.e. property over the facility has to follow later and property over building land. We are aware that by implementing these standards we are likely to deepen someone's wounds and that there are likely to be some, let me say, disappointments for those who have had some expectations -- that the law on restitution would solve their personal problem. We are aware that many of those who thought -- that once their agricultural land, today's building land, will become their natural land again. We are aware that this law will surely put us in a position that some people will unwarrantedly come to property above land, because at this point they are owners of buildings and that this value is likely to be much greater than they deserve. We are aware that some recent ones may be happy about this, but we are essentially guided by the thought that millions of problems that exist today in Serbia will be solved by this law that have nothing to do with the issue of restitution. When we make the law, we make one general standard. This general standard implies its duration and its application on the territory of the entire country. It's impossible to single out a list of these people and try to solve their problem in one way without it being part of the general norm. You and Mr Batic have submitted amendments that are fully in line with what has been the requirement of different associations of citizens dealing with restitution. I want to repeat again - this ministry does not enter the restitution model. This ministry enters the conversion of the right to use on property and enters into something that is a fundamental issue, which is the conversion of the principle from which we started when we wrote this law, which is – the right to property over an object must also be followed by the right of ownership over land, however it has arisen in the past decades, and it has arisen and cannot be changed. That's what we wanted to say. So, we'll be pushing for a restitution as soon as possible. In the process of writing the law on restitution, we as a ministry will insist that there be a fair compensation for people who, in this way, may have lost their dream that their land could be naturally restituted. I think that through the solutions that we have proposed in this law we have also formed a serious mechanism for filling the restitution fund, from which we expect a significant portion of the funds to be provided for these people. We did the best we could. We could not do more than this without violating what was the basic norm and the basic principle which, I say, was at least unsuccessfully applied in all countries, and above all in the countries of the former Yugoslavia. We cannot compare ourselves with the Czech Republic and Poland, but also how we can compare ourselves with the countries of the former Yugoslavia, because essentially all the laws under which nationalisation and confiscation took place were based, according to laws that applied throughout the territory of the former Yugoslavia. That was the basis from which we started. Then we started from a failed model that Slovenia applied and eventually led to a huge number of problems. We're just afraid that some other model would cause millions of litigation disputes that would bury our courts and essentially not solve the problem. So this is the least bad solution we could suggest. We stand behind him, regardless of all the criticism they could hear these days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25982	The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to Article 98. You've come forward on this amendment, Mr. Baticu, haven't you? It's a replica, isn't it? I don't know what basis you've reached out to.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25983	Madam President, I'm filing an amendment to Article 96. How does Article 98 first go back to Article 96? You've read Article 98.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25984	Mr. Chiquiriz, you've come forward under this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25985	Mr. Minister, I would not repeat what Mr. Gojkovic said, because this is the position of the SPO, one of which we call in a joke within the framework of the List for European Serbia, the DES, or right-wing European Serbia. I think that after 38 system laws passed after the Second World War, which directly hit the greatest property right, the right of private property, and after one experiment that apparently failed, the state is largely regulating legal security in one of its most important areas. For what reason? When representatives of the former yet communist Yugoslavia tried to explain to foreign investors what it means -- the right to use, how can an object be owned by one person, land owned by a state, say public property, so what is the right to use -- it was not clear to anyone? The principle of Roman law that the legal fate of the facility is tied to the legal fate of the land on which the facility is located is confirmed by this law. On the other hand, we can, if this isn't regulated like this, that we play law and get back to the owner of his land and say, you own the land, no matter what property there is on that land, and you can't use it. What we've been looking for from the SPO is that there is this legal alignment. In fact, according to the Law on the Registration and Recording of Deprived Assets, this article is only required to exempt this part of the property, that the law, of course, applies to everything as a general legal act, but we believe that this would not be an obstacle. This would also be in the interest of legal certainty, and in the interest of both moral, property and any kind of satisfaction to people who were punished just because they thought otherwise. Since you have given a very comprehensive explanation, I think this is good for the public, we will say, of course, that we believe the reasons given by the minister, we believe that they will invest their authority to put the restitution law as soon as possible in the home of the National Assembly, and since in this debate and many political parties, which had not previously advocated the restitution or even though they were not allowed to say so publicly, we think that the restitution law will be passed by a large majority of all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25986	Mr. Batic - replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25987	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I am not convinced of the clarity of your argument, with all due respect to your family's genetics, which is similar to what my family experienced. My grandfather was declared a state enemy and was convicted, sentenced to death by shooting, and later sentenced to prison sentences. First, there is an inadequate argument that your ministry has submitted one bill before other ministries. I suppose the government should act as a unique organism, in full correlation, in total cohesion, not that individual ministries act as separate celestial bodies? Secondly, when you mention the former Yugoslav republics, they all passed long-standing laws on restitution or denationalisation, or the return of seized property and compensation, including Republika Srpska -- is not Serbia alone. The issue of restitution is the previous question of the law that you propose. So there's some order and that's how things work out. It's a waste of your goodwill when a restitution law is proposed if the owners no longer have anything to return to. By this law, I know that it is neither your will nor your intention, the current situation is being preserved and injustice continues for people who have been victims of nationalisation, in favour of various businesspeople, tycoon, oligarchs and those who master the good part of Serbia, which is building land - in the centres of various cities in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25988	The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to Article 96. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25989	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, my capacity is not so much to praise you as Mr. Gojkovic. I don't mean anything by it, but my personal impression can't take two things away. You may have the intention to correct this area in a proper manner, and you have shown it mainly through your active participation in the debate with the MPs in the part where the procedure is more talked about. One more thing, you're a doctor, but you've made an effort to speak responsibly and professionally about this issue. But when we in the Serbian Radical Party have recognized the problems of this law, then your passivity comes. In Article 88(3), we have already shown you some problems that may arise. Now here is the 96th article in the best possible way to point to the great possibility of abuse. Mr. Batić, you say there is a continuing injustice, I can share that opinion, but it seems here still and I will try to interpret the provisions of article 96 on behalf of the SRS to prove it. Here we have the principle of alienation and the lease of building land in public property. Article 96's position states that this is done by public competition and by collecting offers by public advertising, at market price and so on, it is a rule and there is no exception. But we have attitude 6, which we in the SRS are intervening and he says like this – exclusively from the provisions of Article 5. What it says - extremely, I guarantee you, will not apply to anyone from Koseric, nor to someone from Love. Who could it apply to? Probably on those couriers and their connected faces. What's he saying next? The local self-government unit may alienate or lease a building land at a price, i.e. a lease, which is less than marketable. You see, it does not seem to be an injustice, continues, Serbian citizens are being robbed. To rent construction land at a cost lower than the market price, i.e. either to alienate or to rent construction land without compensation, with prior acquisition of the consent of the Government. Here, Mr. Dulic can resist however much, I respect the facts, the personal qualities of yours that you have spoken about, but you are still a member of the government that is incompetent, which at least accounts for the citizens of Serbia and you can do everything personally, but the government is the one who creates the environment and which creates the overall policy, and we will pay the price regardless of what you may have sincere desires that this law solves in a good way. It says – closer to conditions and ways to alienate or rent building land from the 6th term of the member is prescribed by the Serbian Government. My legal knowledge is modest, but this law can be called a law on sublaws. Almost any legal regulation left no need for this many legal, or sublegal acts to be passed. You commented in the first part of the debate on the amendments that a large number of amendments of MPs are of quality, but that you will include these provisions in sublegal acts, i.e. install them in sublegal acts. How to comment on the position of the 9th member, where it is said, of obtaining a building permit to the owner of an unlawfully built facility which has submitted the application within the time limits prescribed by this law, if the construction of that facility is in accordance with the conditions laid down in this law? There really is no room for these provisions in this law. The least you should do is accept the amendment to Article 88 and the amendment to Article 96, and then you would show that what you did as a man, as an individual in that government to do, that you really want to. If this stays like this and you don't accept the amendment, then your story of your good intentions to do something here in a good way doesn't stand and isn't acceptable to us in the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25990	Mr. Secretary has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25991	In my view, this is a good provision, and it will put or define clearly a legal situation that is otherwise happening in practice. What exactly is this about? Why is there a need for this area to be governed by this law and by a sublaw? It is about situations that are not rare in Serbia, that a large investor who wants to hire very many people, to make a big greenfield investment in Serbia and where municipalities give him different kinds of discounts, and even to give him free land for use, only to be competitors in relation to other municipalities or other countries in this region and to make the investment happen. So this has been happening so far in Serbia, but it has not been regulated and from municipality to municipality has been defined differently. Our intention was to define by means of a sublegal act what investors do when you give someone public land under more favourable conditions than the market price, what that investor needs to meet towards the state of Serbia, how many people they need to hire, how much investment they will invest to achieve this right that this regulation would define for him. We couldn't put it in the law, because of course it will depend on many circumstances. There are differences when an investor comes who wants to invest in a car factory or when an investor comes who wants to invest in a renewable energy source. Both investments can be a significant incentive for development both in the region and in the Serbian country itself. It was basically an idea. We'll just because it hasn't been regulated so far, one sublegal act will regulate the terms and that was our intention. So it's not the intention of giving someone something up without rules. I can tell you that we have very many examples in Serbia, several municipalities that have thus managed to attract investment and in some ways have shown us that we have to regulate this area. It's about this article you quoted. Of course, I know that the way you told it and it seems there's a possibility of abuse, but there are a lot more possibilities for abuse unless we define it. In a way that we've regulated it, and by a member of the law and by a sublegal act, I think we're going to be much closer to sorting that matter out and determining it in one way that would be more correct. That was our intention when we wrote that attitude in a member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25992	Mr. Sreto Peric. What's the base of the call?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25993	Wrong interpretation, I just have to add. Turn on my mic. We're not against sublegal acts, I'm just saying that there may be too many of them here and it's very difficult to define how optimal it is for one bill of sublegal acts. But if certain ministers and even vice-presidents in this government have agreed -- there is no other expression, we are in the Serbian Parliament, we need to speak Serbian to understand -- through the law on free-distribution action, five million Serbian citizens, what do we expect from one sublegal act? There's nothing else here but the way I interpreted it. I'm absolutely sure, I'm not saying that you wanted to, but the ultimate intention of this law is that, because the benefits of this member will be sought very quickly by those who helped the opposition disappear in Serbia, i.e. on the margins of political events and political life. They will use all the benefits of this member tomorrow, and not the citizens of those municipalities, I can say all the municipalities and cities of Serbia, but it will benefit those who have so far provided themselves with great benefits in politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25994	The 96th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25995	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our colleague Miletic Mihajlovic has submitted an amendment to the 96th Law. It's a member we've been talking about for a while, a member talking about alienating or renting construction land into public property. Of course, this is a significant issue, a significant matter, given that building land is one of the greatest resources available. Our judgment on this law, we said our position in the principle debate and I don't want to repeat it. I would just like to remind briefly that during the talks with Mr. Minister who had at the time he visited all the parliamentary groups, which I welcome and commend, because in this way he showed responsibility and willingness to come to the best solution in the law, accepting amendments, without looking at the name and last name and the party from which they came, which is certainly commendable, that we then discussed this amendment, which was tabled by counterpart Miletic Mihajlovic. What's this about? It is a building land that can be alienated or leased directly by a contract. There, among other things, is the point 1) - the construction of a facility from the jurisdiction of the state authorities and organisations, under 2) - the acquisition of a building permit to the owner of an illegally built facility, under 3) - the corrections of the borders of neighbouring cadastrian parcels, under 4) - the formation of a building plot in accordance with Article 105 and under 5) - the alienation or lease of the 6th of this article, in fact what was spoken earlier. Our colleague Miletic Mihajlovic submitted an amendment proposing that point 6 be added), so that something can be given in the event of an agreement on land giving to an earlier immobiliser who was subject to expropriation, in accordance with the rules on expropriation. What's this about? Earlier owners of residential buildings, business premises, etc., which have been exploited because of the need of society and state land, are also required to have the right to participate in land leases through agreements. We think it's right, so they're not going to tender, they're doing it directly by contract. So, I repeat, it's about an earlier real estate owner who's been exploited. That's when we talked about how it would be acceptable, just to tell exactly what was exploited. It's a little vague here now, because the amendment on which the Government's opinion has given it an amendment without correction. However, the correction was filed and Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, the esteemed president, read it, so I don't think there's any interference with the amendment with that amendment being accepted, Mr Minister. I suggest you take another look at this amendment, with a correction, and accept it. So it's no longer just the former owner of an apartment, a residential building or a business room, so you don't know who he is, but the former owner of the property that was the subject of expropriation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25996	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25997	We also said that we would accept, if more precisely what your intention was, because our intention is clear to us and it is acceptable to us. So, if it was filed in this form as you have now read, we would accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25998	The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic to Article 96. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u25999	Mr. Minister, you have now entered a conflict between your two explanations and your arguments. Then why don't you accept the amendment of colleague Gojkovic and my amendment, which are more comprehensive and rational? We're just asking that nationalised building land, where citizens, under the Law on the Registration of Nationalized Assets, filed a report, cannot be alienated, cannot be leased, cannot be burdened. How can it be exploited now and not nationalized? It's a legal nonsens. This is what I'm saying most well-intentioned. If you're already showing good faith for something, it's neither your duty nor your fault. To me, the government's position is not clear either, Minister Djelic apriori says - there is nothing of a restitution, he said on the Day of Europe on 9 May, clearly, loudly, defiantly, decisively, because there is no money. Mrs Dragutinovic says - it will be by the end of the year. You say you have a good will. Olli Rehn tells Boris Tadic -- if you prefer to join the EU, pass a restitution law. Then what does restitution mean if the tycoons take everything? I'm saying this on behalf of the DHSS, who submitted the Bill of Denationalisation six years ago, repeated this on March 6th of this year, but on behalf of many associations of return, seized property and on behalf of thousands and thousands of people who are finally waiting for justice to be established, for which they have been waiting for 60 or more years. I don't see what heresy is, that only bans alienation, burden, lease property that's nationalized and under the law by citizens, as such, is reported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26000	You see, Mr. Batic, we don't need Ollie Rehn to say that restitution is necessary, we're aware of it, and that's what we're talking about, I think that generations of politicians over the past 20 years and all the parties involved in the work of the government have been trying to solve this problem. Unfortunately, he has failed so far. We've had conversations with all the parties that might be interested in passing this law. The last conversation we had with the Restitution Network yesterday, where we tried to define something that is, in principle, our position, which is that we wouldn't mind, in some way, preventing this law from conversing the right to use into property rights over that building land that could possibly be the subject of restitution. The problem is that, no matter what you mention the law, this law is not the basis on which you can prove to me that someone really is a seeker or has any legal relationship with an earlier owner and really represents his legal heir. When we talk about this particular amendment, we're talking about very clear procedures that are led around expropriation, something that has its own judicial trail, something where there's complete documentation. When we talk about these issues about restitution and questions about who's actually the former owner and who's his legal heir, we only have one law that predicted the enrollment of some kind of right, but no one controlled it. You could have literally gone to sign up to look for, I don't know, all of Prince Michael's, that nobody was controlling it at that point, because it was something that was just some sort of record of you looking for some property. So that's what our problem is that, when we talk about restitution, we haven't even taken that first step that should mean a clear determination of who the former owner is, who his legal user is, and that database is essentially missing here. We're gonna check it out now, and now we're gonna talk about it. We have no intention of alienating property that could possibly be the subject of restitution. We want the restitution law to regulate that question. If we can accept your amendments to prevent that one segment of building land, which was before the war, from building land, which was and when the construction land was taken away. So, right here, I want to put aside everything that was agricultural plots, fields around Belgrade, which in the meantime became building land by investing this country, cities, municipalities, people, and which today someone thinks they can now search as their building plot and knock on the doors of every resident of these buildings and charge them a fee for use. So here we're just talking about concrete cases of stolen construction land. If this amendment could solve it, we would accept it. Unfortunately, I'm afraid it can't be solved, because it's impossible to clearly tell what kind of situation it is when it comes to building land that was city building land according to the laws by which it was taken away. That's what's essentially our problem. Believe me, we've done everything we can to try and find a common standard that should define all the problems. We didn't make it. We'll take another look at your amendment. In the voting day, we would then ask the MPs to support it, if possible, but we failed to find a way to solve this problem without again moving away from what was the principle, which is: in 60 years, unfortunately, it was taken away, it was terrible what happened, in the last 60 years someone had become the owner of that facility, people were buying apartments. We're talking about buildings where today people who have the right to, as well as neighbors next door, turn the use of building land under their apartment into property rights, and now we can't bring people into an unequal position. So that's what it was essentially about. So matter is very complex. We'll take a look, that's what I promise you now, but it's impossible to define it through norm, like you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26001	Mr. Milos Aligrudic has a word for the amendment. You wanted to hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26003	I'm sorry, I'm running out of time, and I'm trying to figure out how to use the time of the group's boss. Thank you for your attention. So, this law, while we are already talking about this amendment and the consequences and the overall fact, Mr. Minister, of course, cannot be changed and to ensure the restitution of one amendment and one member, because this law is completely opposed to the idea of restitution. This law in its essence, in its essence, is death for the restitution of the state, because you do not use the fundamentally logical principle that you declared on the first day superfies solo cedit. Neither you know, nor the team that works for you, you know that you are not in that profession, you do not know for certain, there can be no process to which you would come to that plane. Those countries that came from private property and held it as eyes in their heads from the beginning, which had no precedent, as we had with the Socialist Revolution, the abductions and 300 miracles, these countries are not in so much trouble. They express public interest through the idea of public land differently set up and done otherwise. You're here with a direct contract to give someone the rights on public land. It's in one of your laws. Do you think it's something that can help the idea of the restitution principle? Where you're going to raise the fund, where you're going to go through this kind of spending that this law, as well as the other laws that you're proposing, is where you're going to get to the fund tomorrow, based on which the restitution would be implemented, even if it wasn't material, or if it wasn't in nature, in what way? I told you at the beginning, the only idea of restitution on unbuilt land, even through this phase, through this law, if it had been dragged through a completely different concept, would have helped the idea of this law and the way the idea of land and property relations here would have been established in a valid way, and would have helped the idea of a building permit and a way of building in the state and suspending illegal construction. This is all you've been doing here, it's spinning in circles, it's costing a lot, and it won't lead to any effects.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26004	Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26005	Mr. Minister, I'll be free to replicate. You're wrong, but I'll try as a professional, someone who's been dealing with real estate rights for years to explain why you're wrong. First, it's not true that people reported anything and that I could go and report that I own the Prince of Michael's street and that it was nationalized to my ancestors. That's not true. People had to sign up to deliver the legal basis. That's one thing. The second thing, even independently of that, in the cataster, there are collections of documents in land books and for every immovableity you see what it was, what its legal fate was before its current status and you see that it was – wait, if I'm doing something and I do it, I know it – the subject of nationalization. We are not predicating this amendment to the return of the property seized by the restitution law, but we are just predicating that it cannot be alienated. Turns out it was a rush with this law, that everything that's attractive in the centers of cities is better and better alienated and burdened before the restitution law is passed. That's how it turns out, I'm not saying it's your intention, but that's how it works out. What is the sin in which it is because that nationalized property cannot be subject to, to simplify, nationalized building land cannot be subject to alienation, burden and no kind of presy over ownership? Here, when you place the right of previous owners, or their heirs over various types who know in what way they have come to these attractive locations, it turns out that these others are in advantage. It can be, it's just an assumption, it's presumption, it's a pragmatic yuris tantum, it's even a conjecture, but in any case it'll be seen whether it's the subject of nationalisation or not, but it can't be alienated and burdened. That's the essence of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26006	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26007	I won't answer again, I told you again, we'll see if this amendment can solve the issue. I'm afraid not. It is a submitted legal basis, but no one checked on him. I would remind you, Mr Batic, that we live in a country where it is very difficult to make a general norm, in which there are land books written hundreds of years ago, such as the situation with some municipalities in Vojvodina and where there are regions all over Serbia, where you have no regulated property-legal relations on land and on buildings today, because there is not yet an adequate list of them. When you talk about historical logic, it may be applied to downtown Belgrade and you may be able to prove something there, but we're writing a standard for all of Serbia and we can't define all these situations the way you imagined it. I'll tell you what we've done with this law, as far as previous owners and their users are concerned. They have the right to use on unbuilt land, which is provided for by an existing law, we are converting it into property rights. Also, if they have acquired the right to object by force of this law, we are talking about built land where they are the owners of the facility, they will acquire property over the land, or on the land under that facility. We're also going to pay 50% of the fees from the conversion of the right to use the right property into a restitution fund from which everything we can't solve with this law will be compensated. We've done a lot for the whole restitution process of this law, trying precisely to correct what could possibly be potential injustices through what will be formed and filled with the restitution fund. We couldn't do more than that. I say again, if this amendment, if it had a legal fact, as you said, to prevent a very clear injustice against those who had a building plot until World War II, who were deprived of the building land that was built and if we could prevent it from estranged until the law on restitution was passed, we would accept that norm. I'm afraid that's not possible right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26008	Member of the 97th amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 97th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Mico Rogovic and Igor Bečić, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26009	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens, Article 97 speaks about the issue of construction land and together with counterpart Rogovic, we have submitted an amendment to delete in Article 97 of Section 4 the words "or direct contracts". The only situation where a direct contract is better than a public bidding is when someone wants to take a bribe. Then why are we pushing for the fight against corruption when we put such opportunities into the law, because it is only one source of corruption. Here it takes a single competition, because we are, for example, five years of public affairs in local self-government, no land issue is given by direct contract, and I only advocate public bidding, because just like I said, it's a competition, where you get the highest amount for local self-government. We also have school examples of corruption, for example, the release by Mladjan Dinkic of business space in New Belgrade for TV B92 at the price of squares far below the market. They were still honored by a man with 200,000 euros in advertising. We also have a very interesting view of the Government, where it is said that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons that the bill accurately established cases in which construction land in public property can be alienated or leased by direct contract. Article 96, we have an interesting position 6, where it is said – it can give you at a price less than the market price, i.e. rent or alienate and rent construction land without compensation, with the prior consent of the Government. We also have experience that this government, Mr Dinkic, can always blackmail and always achieve its intention. I don't see that there's anything Mr. Dinkic won't or can't get what he wants, so neither would our minister's final word, who I'm sure would try to prevent such a thing, be the last.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26010	Member of the 97th amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Stojakovic-Milovanovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Maja Lausevic to Article 98. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. National MP Dejan Radenkovic submitted the amendment to Article 98. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 98 of the amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The title above article 99 was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26011	This amendment is more technical. I thought the word "conversion" should be replaced by "conversion." You explained that the word "conversion" is in use. I can accept that, but I'm still on the side of the constitution that obliges us to officially use Serbian, Cyrillic, and that's how I handled myself. I'm going to use this time, Mr. Minister, and I'm going to refer to one statement, that is, your finding earlier, and we've come to a segment of the law relating to this legalization, that is, the topic that has opened many controversys, that is, that is, that has opposed various and different attitudes. It seems to me that you just said that your goal is to legalize the existing situation. We can agree with you in a good way, but we want to express our skepticism against the fact that you will succeed in doing so. Somehow we think, Mr. Minister, that when we talk about legalisation or this segment of the law we really owe, this isn't addressed to your address only, to absorb populism or some messiah. You know, now everyone would be good and get political points by, I say, playing with someone's accident, which is caused by someone's irresponsibleness. Now, this irresponsibility is really none of the government's representatives want to talk. You really have to tell us, in one glamorous way, the 2003 law and all of what you promised these days and what you promise is that Dragoslav Šumarac promised then. But you have to agree with the fact, and I believe you've convinced yourself, the space in Serbia is a mess. Is there someone who is willing to accept responsibility or to point out who is responsible for this fact? You're talking about local self-governments and their obligations as they will be when it comes to planning, or spatial plans, and you know the situation yourself, only 20% of the municipalities have planned documentation. How much can you expect the municipalities to respond to those challenges that will come through this law in the context of planning? Here, Mr. Minister, if you want order, then you must promote that order and you must give examples of responsibility first as a minister, and then your colleagues in the ministries sitting with you in the governments. Here you promote responsibility, and a few days ago your fellow minister opens the way to Bajcetina, Mr Milutin Mrkonjic. Does that road have a license, does that road have a project based on what it was done? Is it based on the fact that he has documentation or on the fact that someone gave the quorum at the ninth session and the tenth session or that he constantly gives the quorums to the relevant and resolution committees of the assembly? You know, as long as you don't personally promote responsibility and seriousness in the government, don't expect to have it on the ground in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26012	The 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Stojakovic-Milovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 100 of the amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Stojakovic-Milovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 100 of the amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 101 of the amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Stojakovic-Milovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 101 of the amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 101 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26013	The substance of the amendment is more legal-technical in nature, instead of one, according to us, the rhubarb formulations ''can be determined by the right to convert the right to use on unbuilt building land'', it is much more celery to say - the right of property is established on unbuilt building land. That's the point. Based on what has already been said about Amendment 96, I am interested, since it is now obvious in fashion, in recent times there has been a great controversy regarding the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Information, whether the provisions of this proposal of the Law on the Planning of Space and Construction are familiar with the relevant institutions of the Council of Europe, particularly regarding provisions that are in line with the restitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26014	MPs Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 101st amendment. Mrs Popovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26015	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, seems to me that a brief debate has come down to one thing, which is that this law should not have passed any law on restitution, no law on denationalisation, no law on public property, no law on property. If already it had to be passed, then it should not have included those provisions, those members of the property law, the conversion of property of city building land, because that property would have to be subject to those laws that I have stated, so before the law on funds in the possession of the Republic of Serbia was even put out of force. This article 101 is specific for this reason because it speaks of the conversion of the right of use to property rights on the city's unbuilt building land. So, if the intensity of this law, which is in fact the goal, is to legalise lawless objects, so that is what is particularly declared the most important objective of this law, everything remains secondary to this basic goal, to make order in building on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as I understand it, has been discussed so far. If that's the case, then with this bill solution regarding Article 101, we simply put it in a different plan, we put it in the citizens of the second order of citizens who are users of undeveloped city building land. When I say users, I mean not only those people who have acquired this right by having the right, or the property of the first owner, or his successors, or persons to whom these persons have transferred the right to use in accordance with the positive regulations, but also those persons, those users who have acquired this right of use, or those persons who have taken over this property unbuilt building land from these legally established legal users. Why am I saying that? I speak for this reason because since 1968 city building land has not been in traffic. Since 1968, life hasn't stopped. So since 1968, the first owner has changed, and his legal heirs have changed. They lined up for users by some faces who couldn't according to the positive regulations to gain that right of use. So what's going to happen to these people, how they're going to convert that right of use into property rights, when you're exactly listing in paragraph 3 of this law what are the conditions, what is necessary to bear as proof that the conditions for conversion have been met. You state as proof that someone has the property of the first owner. It was a long time ago that someone owned city building land. You're saying he has to bear proof that he's the rightful heir to that person, that's possible. You're suggesting that it's a third person who, in the sense of the law, has acquired that right of use, so legally. That's possible. However, what will happen if this situation arises that this third party is not a person in a series that could have acquired the right to use in terms of positive regulations. You're also asking to file evidence from public books on the right to use, evidence of the existence of real estate, and that's fine. You are asking for the exact name and last name of the user who is now seeking conversion. What happens if someone hasn't been able to register their right to use in the meantime? Will you deny it the right to convert, to use property rights, because there is no copy of the public book? We spoke earlier that Serbia must not have legally entered ownership and use rights in 80%. So there's no public book, unlike Vojvodina, where even the public book, which worked very well, has been abolished for the sake of catastrian immovableity. So what are we going to do about converting these rights if they can't provide evidence with that copy from the public book? Isn't it much more useful then what I've submitted in my amendment, that there's evidence that there's real estate, a copy of a public book, that there's evidence of the property of the right to use, is it because it's the first owner, is it because it's a legal heir or evidence that that third party has acquired the right to use one of these two groups of people? If he did so by means of a buy-in contract, which has been certified, which has passed through the process of charging taxes on the transfer of absolute rights, if all of this evidence is presented, why not allow him to convert, that is to say, to enroll that right of use and also convert it into property rights? You're relying on a law that will put this law out of force. It will simply end the reason for the futility of this legal business, which you could possibly call upon. Therefore, if the right to the futility of this legal business ceases, and all the other conditions are met, is it not quite normal and legal that, by stopping the reasons of nothingness, the third party has acquired the right to traffic immovableity under this law and thus the right to convert and exploit property rights. We're just suggesting some rational solutions, because with this solution, however legalistic it seems, eventually there'll be very big problems and they won't be able to implement it, and we have experience with the 2003 law, as much as it actually seems rational and legal, it's become inconclusive. So the essence of the law is to be functional, to accept reality and to make life easier and clearer for citizens. That is the only reason we have submitted this amendment that I have now explained. I would suggest, just in the interest of the citizens, that this empty void that will come into force of this law be removed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26016	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26017	The practical problem in the realisation of the provisions of the proposed Article 102 is the timing and separation of the procedure for the adoption of a resolution on the annulment of the solution and the removal of the city building land from the possession of the former owner and its legal successor and the separate process of determining the amount of cash to be recovered by those persons. This amendment provides that the amount of compensation received for the amount of building land, heir or former owner is due to return before the return of the city's building land. I'll take the opportunity to present to you, Mr. Minister, a problem which I don't think will be solved by the provisions of this law, as far as the Pryboy municipality is concerned. I think you are somewhat certain and familiar with the situation that more than 60% of the building land in the municipality of Priboj, in the populated part, is owned by a company "FAP" or user, which has contracts for the use of this land, and on that property are residential buildings, public buildings, streets, parks, or over 10,000 residents living in buildings and houses that are located on the property of the company "FAP", which is not privatised. I ask the question – what is happening in this situation, that is, will the citizens who have apartments in that territory become automatically the owners of that city building land, or what happens to the public areas on that territory? Is this immediately owned by local self-government or remains owned by FAP until privatisation occurs? I think it's the only case in RS territory where the company is the owner, i.e. the user of almost all city building land. I don't think it's obvious from the provisions of this law how this problem is solved, because we're afraid that if the conversion isn't done now, and there's a privatisation of the company, that some future owner will determine how much compensation it is for having an apartment, building or any object on his land.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26018	The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic to Article 103. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26019	The main thing of the amendment is that the right of ownership on built building land in state property is recognised to the former owner, i.e. his successor, responsibilities and associations of citizens of national importance. To fully shorten and simplify, the main thing is that this change would allow for the application of strong enforcement solutions on the rehabilitation of persons covered by the provisions of the Rehabilitation Act in the part relating to the seized land. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that that's what the Constitutional Court said in March this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26020	Members of the 103rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 104, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nebojsa Ceran. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic to Article 103. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladan Batic submitted to Article 104 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26021	I must point out that there has been an opinion of the Republic of Public Attorney's Office since 3 July of this year, which pointed to the practice of unfounded entry of the right to use on land under Article 19(2). The law on fundamental property-legal relations and thus the unfounded wealth of individuals at the expense of the Republic of Serbia, on the burden of the Republic of Serbia, in particular in cases of small-scale buildings located on the land of a vast area. We've been witnessing certain TV fields lately, that some tycoon buys a company that has, say, a couple hundred squares on land of several acres of land in the city center or near the city center. Then he gets an enormous profit, there's a baseless gain in millions and millions of euros. We've had several dramatic cases in Belgrade on this occasion. So, you need to disable something like that, Minister, you're not listening to me, and leave just so you can use the land under the building and for the elementary regular use of the building, not for the richness of the tycoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26022	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, submitted an amendment to Article 104 and the Government accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic to article 104. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 105 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 105 of the amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted an amendment to the title above article 106. Do you want a word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26023	This amendment of mine, Mr. Minister, is compatible with the next amendment, so perhaps if you decide, after the arguments my colleagues will later present, to accept the amendment to Article 106, then it would be logical to accept this amendment as well. I'm just going to take the opportunity, if you'd be so kind as to listen to me, given that the municipality from which I come, or the Building Land and Roads Directorate, has concluded one contract with your ministry, and it refers to the area of exceptional qualities of Vlasin and that contract, you've committed to co-finance certain measures with the funds of millions and 600,000 dinars. You made a deal to do it 10 days after the contract was concluded. It was about the new year, and so far you've only paid 800,000 dinars. On behalf of the citizens of that municipality, I would ask you to transfer those funds if you can and can, so that the programme of measures for the area of exceptional qualities can be implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26024	Member of the 106th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Vervain Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26025	Article 106 of the proposal of this law is actually the essence of the adoption of this law, Mr. Minister. I told you that and in the principle debate and we talked about this amendment and after that, and I'm really sorry that I couldn't convince you to accept this amendment. We were ready, we're still ready, to even sort out this amendment in some way. I'll tell you in the course of this debate how the amendment can be arranged to remove those dilemmas you were talking about. There's certainly a business opportunity to do it now. You remember when you were president, that the Legislative Committee had to withdraw, anyway, it had to be done for Mr. Miletic Mihajlovic's amendment, and if it did, the Legislative Committee, you couldn't accept the amendment that way either. Otherwise, it's a good amendment, and I told you from the place that it should be accepted, because that's what we really think. What's the essence of Article 106? In fact, you intend to legalize robbery privatisation and to permanently lose the ability of this member to dispose of the land in this privatisation process, along with existing facilities, to belong to new owners. It's interesting that colleagues who have discussed previous members, who are in some way connected to this, actually this whole head is essentially with the same subject, it's interesting that people who have been talking about it all these nine years, in one way or another, have been part of the government for some time and have had the opportunity to do what they stand for today. It is also interesting that the Privatisation Act did not contain such tones that in the case of nationalised assets, etc. We don't advocate restitution, and we never did. But it seems to me that this 11th session, since it's usually very strange in the way it works, is actually going to reveal one newspaper in the work of this government. When it comes to the public information law, we read today to say from the Council of Europe that they have not given you consent to this law. Ollie Rehn warns you that you are not on the European path to this law. Does that mean, Mr. Dulic, that this government doesn't really want European integration, so let's say, every honor, here's the government will seem to be finally dealing with the problems of the Serbian state. This was a little joke, I'm afraid that's not the case. Now I'm going to tell you what and how we can, if there is any good will, solve the problem of this amendment and really solve one big problem, that we no longer have affairs like Us and Luke Belgrade. Because, believe me, ministers, after this amendment, we're going to have a series of such affairs, but since you're going to adopt God forbid this information law, no one will know what's really going on and how the country of Serbia continues to rob and the citizens of Serbia. In all Serbian cities, instead of shopping malls, we will have luxury hotels. Everyone in Serbia knows, you know, and you, Mr. Dulic, that 99% of the privatised factories are not bought to continue, restore and expand production, but because of the location, because of the fact that when the two-year deadlines they have agreed on, they will then do whatever they want at those locations. Why did we intervene like this? Now we've got this process on the privatization of the Fair. Let me just get one piece of the data. I don't want to talk about the price, or the hypocritical Gilas statement that he won't allow it, etc., but what is covered by the Belgrade Fair. So, 24.5 ha of land with perfect infrastructure along the highway, boulevards, two railways, 600 meters of Sava coast, and 106 square meters of closed space, of which 65 meters of exhibition space, etc. So if you don't accept our amendment we're going to have the same thing as Peter Matic and Usč, and here we're going to have 10 ha, someone's going to get 24.5 ha of land, imagine at what location. It will now, unfortunately, be by law, as it will be by law that someone who bought the factory, you can't see it, I'll explain it to you, I can show you. You have a 10 ha plot, and there are about so many plots on which factories were built. The factory halls, with administrative buildings, cover one single hectare. On behalf of the fact that some tycoon bought that factory by robbing the money, he now gets nine acres of land for free, for a gift. From who? From the state of Serbia, from the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Doolic, nod your head like you don't believe anything. Now I'll explain if you want, how it can be avoided. It can be avoided so, here we accept to change the amendment so that the land under the facility and what is needed for the regular use of the facility can remain with the right to use, and the rest to be placed on public auction to sell, but for up to 99 years. No minister and no government should sell the country, Dad, yes, but the state of Serbia does not. This is a very dangerous situation. It's a very dangerous situation, Mr. Dulic, because you know that in this way we can get into a situation -- that China is entitled to Hong Kong on the basis of its owning land. You will put us in a position to make domestic and foreign tycoons the owners of Serbia. That's why we're trying to stop it with this amendment. Of course, if you accepted this, then we would be willing to say in this attitude of our 3rd amendment too - that wearers of the right to use from this previous attitude could be able to reconstruct existing objects, but of course also build new ones, unless they would pay for these additional funds. Here, we are at our disposal, if you want to talk about this amendment, that the Legislative Committee, together with us and with you, can shape it and then really accept that this law, along with all faults and lies about legalisation, can remain, because all other provisions of this law do not have permanent consequences, and Article 106 has lasting and devastating consequences for the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26026	Members of the 105th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Judita Popovic... Excuse me, do you want a word? Mr. Secretary wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26027	Okay, we talked about this, and I'm glad the SRS made a concrete proposal. I am sorry that some other parties have criticised the government's proposal and the solutions that we have proposed without showing what they would have done, because we have to do something. Don't forget one fact, we have a constitution that envisions different forms of property over building land - we have public, cooperative and private property. In the spirit of the law, we wanted to finally resolve the property issue over the land. We've come into a situation of what to do with privatized enterprises that didn't buy property rights over land. They entered a certain form of right to use. What do we do in situations where they de facto become the owners of objects that are there forever? They became owners and what to do with the land issue. If you remember in the past few months, we have been permanently accused as this government, that we will allow tycoons for free to become landowners. This law is the answer to those claims. Now I'd like to see someone who's going to say -- how we want it to the tycoons for free to let us buy rights of use, or by buying property, under which there's a right to use, we're now allowing them to become the owners of that land without compensation. We say - there will be a fee, which will be determined by one methodology that is only possible to determine, and that is the question of one market price that needs to be defined by a particular formula. I know, of course, that there were different ideas and you gave one idea. You've given the idea now -- let's say, there's no conversion of the right to use property rights, it's going to remain the right to use. Then in another attitude, you say - the ministry is signing a lease contract, so the right to use, and here's the lease. The third thing - the price will be defined on the market by some kind of bidding, I don't know how you defined it. So that norm is absolutely not applicable in a particular situation and that is something that is my attitude and our attitude here. We've given you an answer here somewhere. There were certain parliamentary groups that proposed to organise a re-licence for the purchase of built building land. Now you can imagine the situation that you are, say, you own the company, you bought that company, you bought the facility and you have the right to use it, and then we're going to go out to the market and there's an auction for property rights over built building land where someone else owns the building. Then let your competition come out and raise you, because you care about becoming the owner and the land over which your facilities are located, and that they raise the price of your land a hundred times on that auction and bring you into an incredible situation that they end up buying land, and that you continue to own the facility and enter those kinds of disputes that we wanted to avoid. We've applied the only possible norm. Not to tell you how difficult it was to design and write and how challenging it would be to define a government decision that would define the way we would count that price. It won't be easy. This ministry will not write this, but will write the Ministry of Finance, of course, with the help of the Geodesy Institute, with the help of the institutions that are obliged to make market assessments and to give some basic form of assessment of what is the market price of the land. This time, prices will not be estimated on the market, but there are other ways to define what the price is - a market price is taken in the environment, the city of Belgrade is known to define the issue of zoning, etc. And I wouldn't get into it. I'd like to say that this member of the law was answered by all those who claimed that we would give free tycoon land - not true, they would pay for it. And the other thing, in this way, we've corrected one potential injustice that could have happened through the privatisation process, where people with clear intentions were buying a factory, not to continue their production activity, but to one day become cheap building land -- we're going to stop them from doing it. I don't know a fairer model that can be put into legal norm and that can be suggested than this. Of course, you can be skeptical about whether this sublegal act is going to be fair now? Believe that we will all insist on this, in the end and the public will insist that these funds, this revenue that is real, and what is very important that revenue will be redistributed - it will be part of the municipality's income that has invested in some building land in the past time and the second part of the income will be the income of the restitution fund. I think this is a good norm, I think, under the circumstances in which we walk in a very tangible field of conversion of right to use in property rights. We have the courage to suggest it, to finally try to untangle that knot that creates huge problems indeed in Serbia. I think this is the norm that's still gonna solve this huge problem. One day I will, of course, try to make sure that my party and this coalition that is now run by the ministries and the Serbian government are in the future in the same place, but maybe one day there will be someone else there. The one who comes to this ministry will be grateful that we have entered this touching sphere and have solved the biggest problems that have burdened Serbia in the past decades and that have not been able to allow the entire area of construction and urbanism at all. Because without this standard, we won't even have a building land market. Our citizens will pay a terrible price for squares because the construction land market does not exist. We're not finally going to release that trumpet, push through that trumpet that created terrible problems because of the goths that we haven't solved property-legal relations on very high-quality and attractive building land that essentially exists, which unfortunately has been captured in this way today, which we haven't solved through privatisation. Your model, I'm sure, would cause a lot of trouble. I appreciate that you have completely repeated your party's earlier repeated views -- privatization is a mugging plant, we want to get rid of it, we never give anyone land, it has to remain in the property of this country, we're going to question only what will be the cost of costing it. I'm saying it's a model he could never live up to, to be successful. This is the model with which we have provided something that is a constitutional norm, which is private property over building land, for which someone will have to pay. It is our position and we are ready and in the debate of the future to fight for it to be implemented as honestly as possible. Anyway, I appreciate it. You wrote a large number of very good amendments and it turned out that we accepted them. I'm afraid I can't say that it's defined in a way that would be applicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26028	Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26029	Mr. Minister, you're talking about the Constitution and private property, forgetting that the Constitution also provides public property, which is actually state property. In the interpretation of this amendment, I accepted that there were some illogicalities in the application of this form of a member. In the debate, I've given you the exact details of what can be corrected and how to correct ourselves in order to get to one fully applicable member, instead of this member of yours. 106. That's not what you and I were talking about, you predicted that this conversion, the way you designed it here, applied local self-government. Imagine what local tycoons will do. A little while ago, a colleague of Judith said one great thing, that it is necessary that the laws when they are passed, and you who propose them and us who adopt them, that we must take care of one real state in the country in which they are brought. We are passing law in the state of Serbia and we, with this amendment, are in no way jeopardising legal security when it comes to privatisation. We have our own view of privatisation. All privatisations need to be reconsidered. Those who were sure that they were fair in the privatisation, that they were working in accordance with the law, that they had not come to some privatization companies with mass commissions, they could sleep peacefully. We're convinced that one day there's going to be a turn and a story about privatisation, but this isn't a topic right now. But you haven't explained, Mr. Minister, what is the motive and what is the basis for you, where is the constitutional or what is the basis for someone buying his land. That someone you're talking about and we're talking about, I repeat, he bought a factory that's about the size of a hectare, and now you're giving him nine more acres. He does not have the right to prevent buying, he is not the brother of the Serbian state, so that he has the right to purchase in relation to the state of Serbia, Mr Dulic. Just one question, please answer me, consult with your associates, how much will Mr. Miskovic pay the state of Serbia by applying this land member of yours to the university village, and imagine how much money he'll take when he sells all those apartments?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26030	Two minutes and 55 seconds used People's MPs, please don't throw away. [[The Faith of Radeta, from the place: This was a replica.]] You've been using the MP's time. Mrs. Slavica gave me a replica. Please don't throw it away. I asked the president if you'd got time for a replica or from a parliamentary group and the president said it was from a parliamentary group. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic. You want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26031	Mrs. Komic, you have injured member 27 and member 104 and you, and if that's what Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic told you, then so has she. I wouldn't use the time of the parliamentary group in this additional announcement to convince Mr. Minister of something I obviously can't convince him, I said I was reporting to replicate Minister and Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic said - Mrs. Radeta, please. She didn't say what you're saying right now. It's really an incredible abuse, leading me and the whole of our MP groups astray, and I really don't know why you're acting like this. They're moving again, and even earlier when you were banned, obviously, from participating in the debate with Mr. Dulic. He just relaxed while she was Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. She also, unlike you, gave the MPs the right to reply, because she realized that Mr. Dulic wanted dialogue and that we wanted to. This is not a round table, but in what way do we communicate with the minister if you do not allow us the right to reply, without intending to argue, to insult, to talk about matter, to talk about topic, and I repeat, I will ask when Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic comes, at least tomorrow, or when she comes, to say, and I will ask for a stenogram to be seen, and I am telling you, ask Mr. Secretary, did Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic tell me that I am using this time as a time group of MPs. What she said to you in passing, as you do the handover, I don't really care, but I am telling you that I got the right, I asked for a replica and I got Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic's right to reply and don't ask you to come here as soon as you...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26032	It's been two minutes. You didn't get the right to a replica. You can't choose whether to replicate or not, that's what the chairman tells you. In the stenogram you will see that the president said – here you go, Mrs Radeta. Just to avoid any misunderstanding, I asked her if you were using MPs' time or replica time, and she said it was the time of the parliamentary group. You stole our three minutes. I can ask, you can say, you don't have the right to a replica, then I wouldn't answer. Please don't throw it away. The time for replication and replica is given by the chairman, you cannot choose whether you speak by the right to the replica, but by the chairman. People's MPs, please don't throw away. You have used the time of the parliamentary group and you still have enough time at your disposal as the time of the parliamentary group. And the time that the Rules of Procedure were arranged to use MPs during the debate in particular is now serving debate, dialogue with the minister. The replicas serve something else. Once there's a basis for replication, there'll be a replica. Enough evidence during the conduct of the sessions to give replicas when there is a business basis, all the rest is a common violation of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milan Avramovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26033	Mrs. Komic, I must draw your attention that you have injured Article 104 because you are not in charge of determining whether one parliamentary group has enough time or not. If you take into account that there are four packages of the law at one time, that they are not related and that they do not have a buckle, you cannot determine how many MPs will talk and what time they will spend. So you weren't the chairman of the moment Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic gave her word and you can't bring the court on that basis based on the oral statement of the chairman on the way she was handing over the duties. So, follow the session and then when it doesn't suit you, not just when it suits you. You can't take time like this to a parliamentary group and in two minutes, who's going to fail the work of the Assembly, take time in the justice of God because you took office as chairman at a given time. This is not the first time, and I would draw your attention to you in this way that you are insulting the dignity of every MP who wants to participate in both the debate and the discussion and that he is plowing with the minister about a certain item of the agenda, more specifically a member of the proposed law. Do not discriminate in such a way that the debate is going well from all day to day. You know that the minister has adopted a large number of amendments because the debate is in the right course, in the right direction and in the right way to end it. You've just turned that debate into a second turn in your chairmanship. It may have been your wish or your intention, but don't do it, because you do it often. It is not your right to determine whether one parliamentary group has enough time or not. That's what you did at the moment that you combined the incompatible, environmental protection points and the planning and construction point, so I don't count the other points. So, please, refrain from these comments, be so cultural.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26034	Two minutes, thank you. There's no breach of Article 104. When I say enough time, it means that you have time to discuss and discuss within the time available to the parliamentary group, it is at this point 33 minutes and 30 seconds. Just because it's enough means you have the right to get the word, and how long you're going to say, of course, it stays in the election of the parliamentary group, and you, as well as any other parliamentary group. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26035	Mr. Minister, your reasoning regarding article 106 speaks most clearly about leaving the concept of privatisation applied since 2001, which has proved unsuccessful and you are going to further correct the injustice, but only in a state of interest. When I say state, I mean local self-government and government at the republican level, including government at the province level. So this change in member 106 is motivated by the interest of a state that spends beyond its means, a country that has been eating its substance at the expense of its citizens for a long time. The problem of land use and facilities in privatisation and bankruptcy is a problem that is not from today, a problem that has been opened by the Law on its own transformation since 1997. Many solutions have been offered not to come to this, so it cannot be said that yesterday we faced the problem, and today we are solving it in the interests of the citizens. I'll conclude with one single sentence. What are the motives for this proposal and this legal solution will show the consequences of its application, i.e. Whoever benefits from it will be behind your motives.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26036	One minute and 35 seconds. The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26037	I'm sure he'll benefit from both citizens and local self-government. I'm sure that's how they'll be corrected, as I said, and we're not running away from saying, and some of the imperfections that have been happening in the past and that have led to the fact that at this point, we're essentially converting the right to use into property rights, we're trying to collect that resource that's essentially not bought in privatisation, that's what some Supreme Court rulings say, and that's what some of the disputes that have been going on in the past. The only ones who can sell it are the owners of buildings located above that land that are being converted at the moment. So that's what the idea is and that's what will certainly lead to certain incomes. The fact that we didn't want these revenues to be budget revenues and we may disagree, but I think that if some income from local self-government is intended to build further infrastructure for the expansion of the building land zone, that's not de facto income, that's the answer to those efforts that we're trying to fill the budget in this way, etc. These funds will be used for the extension of the building land zone in the future and for the restitution of those people who have been wronged due to different processes in the past. It's what was intentional and I repeat again, it's the purest and most honest intention possible, to try to solve that one ball that, and you said it yourself, has led to a lot of problems. Many solutions have been proposed, none have been adopted and we today in 2009 have an amazing right to use that has completely closed down and made it impossible for the further development of the building in Serbia and we are trying to solve it this way. What you said, to repeat and apostrophe, I really won't answer again, the one who benefits from it, is the law written for him. Try to imagine how much they, who would have to pay for something they thought would gain without compensation, struggled not to reach this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26038	The word is Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26039	I won't get used to not looking for a replica, but just to be practical. So, when you get used to the ones you sell to for free branding, market, factories, and you give the land without charge, or for nothing, they're really going to get everything expensive today. I'm just talking about the wrong concept of privatisation since 2001 and a lot of other injustices that need to be corrected, but I am convinced that these injustices will correct you at the most recent time of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26040	Thirty seconds, time is available to the parliamentary group for nine minutes and 30 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26041	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP has its position on this article 106. We also believe that this is one of the most serious reasons why this law is passed, and we believe that this member is still not serving the rule of law. Now I'm going to state for what reasons. We believe that when you, as a state authority, in a privatization, in a bankruptcy, in a court procedure, sell certain assets, you actually prescribe the rules, you set the conditions, so you're the commander of the parade, you determine in what way, for which price some property will be sold in privatisation, bankruptcy and executive procedure. Those who appear in the privatisation, in bankruptcy, in the executive procedure, report for a call from the state authority and assume that the state body knows what it is doing. When we read Article 106 more carefully, it is seen right from the beginning that the building land in the state or public property is mentioned here. Therefore, if construction facilities, businesses, buildings, etc. were privatised, I note that all these construction buildings, factories, all of them were built on a specific plot that serves the regular use and exploitation of these buildings, buildings, etc. So if there is, say, a surface of over 20 ha, I doubt you had a 20 ha plot that serves to exploit a factory, a company, anything, a building, there was probably a lot more parcels. If there are many more plots, and this is building land, therefore, the purpose of this land has not been changed from agricultural land, from field to building land, to city building land, not built, in which case, in privatisation, in bankruptcy and in court proceedings, you have sold and the right to use, you have called it whatever you want, give in, do whatever you want, you have alienated the right to use on that building land. Again, I note that you here in certain members, it seems to me to be seventy-seven and I don't know which, by the way, Article 70, you precisely define land for the regular use of an object in special cases, etc. So, in this case, you later, when you once determined the price of the building land, though, you called it the right use, you later changed the market conditions, because you are now changing the conditions for which and how this property was alienated. You may wonder as much as you want, but we're back to square one again. Unfortunately, neither the law on restitution nor the law on denationalisation nor the law on property and public property that would define precisely, which would accurately indicate what public property is, what property is, how it is alienated, how it is acquired or how it is trafficked. When you started privatizing, when you started the bankruptcy and execution procedures of the court, you had to know that the land was following the fate of the facility, and if it was a land where there was no object, it was a different story, but then you probably formed the price only on the basis of the price of that land. Then how are you going to change the terms of privatisation, bankruptcy and enforcement? So, I remain in that many things have been done in the past, that many laws have been passed that are colored with ideology, but today laws are passed that don't even have any color, especially because they're illogical, and especially because they're likely to open Pandora's box and what's going to be a big problem with all the privatized assets that are finished in the past, not to talk about bankruptcy and not to talk about executive procedures. I wish it didn't, but we'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26042	Three minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, submitted an amendment to Article 106, which the Government accepted. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to Article 106 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 106 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nebojsa Ceran. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 106th Amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 107 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 107 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nebojsa Ceran. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 107th Amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments in the same text were submitted by MPs Vladan Batic and Milan Avramovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have accepted the amendment, i.e. the amendments should stand if they are in the same text. Please note in the stenogram that amendments by MPs Vladan Batic and Milan Avramovic have been accepted. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that amendments by Vladan Batic and Milan Avramovic, MPs, and in the same text, have become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 108th amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 109 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Nebojsa Ceran submitted to Article 109 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic to article 109. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 110 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 110 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nebojsa Ceran. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 110th Amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zika Gojkovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new title and a new member of 113a be added after article 113a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's Parliament of Gordan Rajkov submitted to Article 123 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Arsen Đurić, Milan Lapčević, Vladimir Milentjevic, Radojko Obradović, Miroslav Petkovic, Zoran Nikolic, Zeljko Tomic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić to Article 133. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The National MP Gordan Rajkov submitted to Article 133 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 133th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 137 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26043	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to add the words "gas pumps" in Article 137, paragraph 2. 3) after the word "500 tonnes" is added. Since the government has responded that it has not accepted the amendment for the reasons that gas stations, the complexity of their projects, etc. I don't understand the government's response because there are much larger objects in this law, i.e. like, for example, the facility for the production of biodiesel, regional heat pipeline, regional gas pipeline, oil pipeline, etc. I don't understand how the gas roads are more complex than these projects I've listed and listed in this article? However, the minister is not there, but I was just about to ask the minister, since the privatisation topic has been initiated, as far as the Republic of Serbia's firm is concerned, and now that it includes building land belonging to such firms, I would only like to ask the minister if he remembers when three sugars were bought for 10 euros and after the sale rights acquired, three years, were alienated by other companies, i.e. The Greeks, the Italians, I don't know who the third owner is then? I think it's collateral damage, because they're owners from Greece, Italy, etc. They became owners of construction land in the Republic of Serbia only because they bought and acquired the right to use the land.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26044	Anyone else want a word? If not, on Article 137 of the amendment, with a correction, MP Vlatko Ratkovic submitted. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 138th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jorvanka Tabakovic and Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26045	I submitted the amendment along with my colleague Rogovic to Article 138. The proposal with a request to delete it, because that member of the law is entrusted to the autonomous province with issuing building permits for the construction of buildings that are listed in Article 137, for those which are built in general on the territory of the AP. It is really necessary that at least part of these facilities, which are listed in Article 137, be presented to the public. These include capital infrastructure facilities of state importance, such as large accumulations, railways, waterways, airports, state roads, but also include capital industrial facilities, and I think this was important to hear, too, Mr Dulic, because of his multidisciplinary knowledge from this area, with the highest degree of environmental impact and potential dangers, such as: nuclear plants, storage facilities and waste dumps, refineries, hazardous materials production plants and the like. I think that this position is so defined is contrary to the Constitution above all and international law, because this kind of object and action that can cause potential dangers not only for the territory of the province, means local, but also for the whole of Serbia, but also for other surrounding countries, are according to international law and according to all the rules that adhere to the UN's responsibility exclusively of the sovereign state. This cannot be the jurisdiction of only one part of the sovereign state, but exclusively of the sovereign state and I will not mention the worldly examples and responsibilities that the UN requires of states in this regard. I won't even mention the possibility that on the body of the sovereign state of Serbia, e.g. in KIM, and along the border with Serbia, what's called a narrow part of Serbia, some such facility is being located. It is unacceptable for such a definition of the authority to issue a building permit to remain, but for one more reason. The gas arrangement is under way, and the construction of these facilities is also very current. There is a possibility that such situations, that the conclusion of a contract concluded by the Republic as a state, would be disabled in implementation by avoiding the province from giving permission to build a pipeline on a route passing through Vojvodina. Please consider this amendment seriously once again. And your answer, according to my and Mica's amendment, turned out to be the republic's question for the least complex objects. Gentlemen Ministers, his assistants, and why are you not in the usual practice of the Government, by submitting amendments at the last minute separated those less complex ones for which the province can be asked and left in the jurisdiction of the Republic what the Constitution requires, as international agreements and conventions require, because this is the only possible solution for this Article 138.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26046	Two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group has been used. The remaining time is available for seven minutes and 30 seconds. On Article 139 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26047	My amendment refers to the legal technical correction of Article 139(2), where instead of "securing" I propose "paid out". For the purposes of Article 139(2), the documents provided for in the application for a building permit are intended to provide evidence supplied by the end-user of the expropriation, where the evidence indicates that it has provided cash at the level of the market value of the immovable property. It's being placed in a legal-financial sense, which means proof that he's provided the funds. Who issues that evidence and what it means in a legal sense, and what it means in a financial sense, that it has provided funds. Legally and financially, if it is a final solution, the final verdict, which is executive and final, has no proof. It means that the procedure has been completed in the executive sense and that, in fact, that evidence has been delivered by the court and that the whole procedure has been completed. I don't think the Minister and the Government, when they were considering this amendment, had fully seen this aspect and had it wrong. I urge once again the minister and present associates to consider this amendment. I think it's meaningful, justified, and as such it would be necessary to adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26048	The amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic to Article 139. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26049	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Government, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the parliamentary group to Article 139. That member is referring to a request for a building permit. It foresees that, with a request for a building permit, a local permit, a major project, evidence of property rights, evidence of the arrangement of the relationship with respect to the payment of compensation with the construction of the building land, when it comes to line infrastructure, is finally a solution to expropriation, when it comes to building where the ownership of multiple persons is subject to consent, etc., and when it comes to the construction of energy facilities, the energy permit is attached to the requirement in accordance with the specific law. We consider it necessary, in accordance with the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, to add another position to the request for a building permit. We believe that this is an important issue, because when all these documents are delivered, it must be delivered, in our opinion, and the following: to add an attitude to the building of objects for which it is mandatory or the need for environmental impact assessment has been established. The request referred to in Article 1 shall be accompanied by the consent of the competent authority in a study on the environmental impact assessment and for the construction of objects which have been found not to require an impact assessment shall be accompanied by an appropriate solution issued by the competent authority in accordance with the specific law. What's the story? If we already have special laws, and we have a special law in the field of environmental protection on environmental impact assessment, we believe that, according to that law, with a request for authorisation, that evidence should be attached. Now, as an authorised representative of this group, I'm going to present it in the context of a time that we have several of our views to remind this ministry, so that I don't later report to all the amendments that follow. I would once again like to warn the Ministry that once again reviewing what we talked about when it comes to the building solution, which is talked about, we are being warned by experts, that we cannot build a trafostation 10/04 and 20/04 on the basis of an idea project, but the main project needs to be built. We are warned by experts that also if information is sought for these trafostations, even auxiliary facilities, that information must also be sought for mobile phone base stations, because also by a regulation that is closer to the environmental impact assessment law, they fall into something that is mandatory to obtain consent. Once again to warn you of Article 154 and Article 157, and we will no longer report, in order to use this time as rationally as possible to the end, and also to refer to construction, once again we warn you to look at the amendments relating to Articles 154 and 157, which say that everyone can equally participate in the tender, and also to foreign companies, but only then if they have a local partner here. In this way, we protect domestic performers, domestic companies, for the simple reason not to get into a situation where foreign companies get jobs, and then only this same business trusts our subcontractor, that our companies are not subcontractors, but that they are local partners in this business. It is one set of these amendments that we have submitted and that we thought we should further explain, to warn, we will no longer report on all these other amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26050	Two minutes and 40 seconds from the time available to the authorised representative. The amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic to article 139. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26051	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to continue in the spirit of the predecessors, my colleagues, Petronijevic, and to appeal to the ministry's representatives to once again pay attention to the amendments to the previous article that Jorgovanka Tabakovic made. It's really very important stuff. In order not to waste the time of the parliamentary group, since three other essential laws await us tomorrow, I would like to present a little something concerning the SNS amendment to Article 139. On my behalf and on behalf of my colleague Igor Bečić, I would like to say that in Article 139, which is otherwise very important, and deals with the requirement to issue building permits, papers at point 2), that the main project is attached to three copies of the technical control report, in relation to the earlier proposal for an idea project is really good news and prevents abuses in the whole process of issuing a building permit and later investor behaviour in view of this situation. In view of this situation, but also of what I have stated, the following point 5 is added: "The order responsible for issuing a building permit is required to respond within 30 days of the date of receipt to the applicant's request for a building permit", it is indeed in the spirit of best intention and in order to prevent so far bad practice. With your answer, that the regulations which provide for the general administrative procedure are scheduled deadlines from 30 to 60 days for the end of the administrative procedure, you are putting me in a position to ask you again - how is it possible that, based on the non-acceptance of this and regardless of the legal procedure in the administrative procedure, the situation, like, in the municipality of Zemun: on the 21,600 applications 6,300, was rejected 1,100, and only 1,000 permits were issued. This amendment, or correction, draws attention to the fact that these things that have happened during this period are not happening. I appeal that indeed, regardless of the above, this should be added for the seriousness of the officers, even though you have also provided penalties for officials from 25,000 to 50,000 later members of this law. We really need to put in law a decadent amount of things to be respected. As soon as there is a possibility there will be such and many similar situations in local self-government units.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26052	On Article 139 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Igor Becic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 139. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Igor Becic:
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26053	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS Tomislav Nikolic has submitted an amendment to add to article 139a, which reads: "All objections to documentation by the competent authority must be in writing form, certified and final. If it is estimated that officials in the local self-government authority are not in place, the responsible designer shall inform the Serbian Engineering Chamber of the initiation of proceedings before the Court of Honor. The responsible person signing the list of objections shall have the license of the responsible designer. '"It's absurd that a licensed designer is controlled by someone without her or without experience. It's also the motive of this amendment. I would only use it, the minister is not here, but I believe that his associates will give him the question, the new constitution has prescribed that within a certain time, a law on the return of property to local self-government and the question is - when will the law come into the assembly procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26054	National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 140th amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 140th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26055	On behalf of the SRS – Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj, I have submitted an amendment to a member of the 140th Law. Article 140 states what the building permit contains, within which the competent authority is required to bring a building permit and what if the person who submitted the application for a building permit is not satisfied. When it comes to Article 137, all I have to do is look back at Article 138. I think Article 138's position may remain, and Article 138's attitude is functionally not his place here. I suggested adding words to the second-degree body in Article 140(4). An appeal, to which a second-degree body, within eight days of the date of delivery, may be made to the solution set out in Article 3 of this Article. Otherwise, a legislative proposal defining that the competent authority is obliged to bring a building permit within eight days, or issue a building permit, is something to be welcomed because it reduces systemic corruption in the largest number of cases. What's been going on so far? That the person interested in the construction submits complete evidence, that is, all the necessary documentation, but it goes two or more years, and there is no answer. The persons in charge of issuing construction permits come and find the contractors there, so they ask where the investor is, and then they get in touch with him, and then they take some money, they continue to build. I hope that after the adoption of this law and in view of this provision, it will no longer be possible. In light of the failure to accept this amendment, if it is no problem for me to speak at the same time without interruption, since I have submitted the amendment to Article 141, it states that it is governed by Article 143 of the decision-making procedure by appeal. Essentially, this Article 143 can remain, but we think it is more practical, that it is more celery, that the parties that appear in the process are much clearer and much simpler to know from whom they will seek protection in the second degree. It is assumed that the authorisation is brought by municipal authorities, i.e. local self-government authorities, and the second-degree body would be the Ministry in this case. Now I'm going to comment on the amendment I submitted to article 141. It is proposed to make a complaint to the second-degree body within eight days of the date of delivery to the solutions set out in Article 3. If the solution has been issued by the ministry responsible for works of construction, or by the competent authority of the AP, an administrative dispute may be initiated. If the building permit has been obtained by the Ministry, and it will do so mainly for all those cases provided for in Article 137. The bill, which I estimate is SRS, capital investment, and a permit to build these objects that are of special importance to Serbia, I think only the Ministry should bring building permits for these facilities, not the AP Vojvodina. For all other cases which are not provided for in Article 137, the competent local self-government and in that case Article 143 would become excessive if the amendments of the SRS were accepted to Art. 140 and 141.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26056	The presentation of Parliamentarian Sreta Peric has just been completed, according to the right to use for two minutes in the debate, in particular on the amendment to Article 141 and MP Sreto Peric is the subject of the amendment. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to article 145 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 145 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Mico Rogovic and Igor Bečić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 146 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Arsen Đurić, Milan Lapčević, Vladimir Milentijevic, Radojko Obradović, Miroslav Petkovic, Zoran Nikolic, Zeljko Tomic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted to article 149 by Parliament of the People of Gordan Rajkov. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 149th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 149 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 149 of the amendment, the People's Parliament of the Verica Radeta submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26057	Mr. Minister, it was really very logical to accept this amendment 149, to delete St. 9 and 10 from this article and only on the basis of the arguments that you may not have read, so I will read it, where it is said that objects for which no construction and use of the permit is issued should not be entered into the immobility record, because any object that is entered into the equities of immobility without a burden is entitled to reconstruction, i.e. the right to change the constructive system and size, and such a harmless object can create a problem, and for objects for which no building permit is issued, it is normal not to issue a valid permit or use. You, the truth is, you've adopted quite a number of amendments to the SRS, of course, because we, you've seen it through these amendments ourselves, have done this proposal really highly studioically, each member per member. I'll just have illustrations to tell you what amendments you've adopted, the ones where you've made cardinal mistakes. For example, you've adopted an amendment to Article 210 where you've provided a fine of 100,000 to 500,000 for a person who doesn't provide access to a disabled object. You accepted our amendment to make it an amount of 300,000 dinars, because it's impossible to go into some range from- to, because it either exists or doesn't exist, either being punished or not being punished. I don't know why you didn't accept the amendment to 214, where we predicted that, in Articles 206, 207, 210 and 212, inspectors who did not file an appropriate report, and that their sentence would increase to not 25,000, but from 100,000 to 300,000 dinars, because construction inspectors are unfortunately the source of corruption when it comes to local self-government and when it comes to construction without a building permit.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26058	Do you want a word again or are you an accident? No, no, no, you've been using two minutes for the amendment, but the name came back on the panel, so I'm checking that there's no misunderstanding. On Article 152, the amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 154 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The addition of new members 155a, 155b, 155v, 155g, 155d and 155dd; MP Mico Rogovic submitted an amendment proposing the addition of these new members. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 156 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 156 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People of Gordan Rajkov. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has also become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Mico Rogovic and Igor Bečić jointly submitted an amendment proposing the erasure of members 157 and the addition of new members 157, 157a, 157b and 157v. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's Parliament of Gordan Rajkov submitted to Article 157 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 157th Amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 158 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 158th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Mico Rogovic and Igor Becic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 159a be added after article 159a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Jorgvanka Tabaković and Mico Rogovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Mico Rogovic and Igor Becic jointly submitted an amendment proposing the addition of new members of 163a, 163b, 163v and 163g. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Arsen Đurić, Milan Lapčević, Vladimir Milentjevic, Radojko Obradović, Miroslav Petkovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic together submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 168th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Mico Rogovic and Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Arsen Đurić, Milan Lapčević, Vladimir Milentjevic, Radojko Obradović, Miroslav Petkovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic together submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26059	The amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic to Article 172. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic to Article 176. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, submitted an amendment to Article 176. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Mico Rogovic and Igor Bečić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 176 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Vlatko Ratkovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 177a be added after article 177a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 177 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's MP, Gordan Rajkov, submitted to Article 179 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Vlatko Ratkovic submitted an amendment, with an amendment, which he proposed to add a new member of 179a after article 179a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordan Rajkov submitted to Article 181 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have submitted an amendment to Article 188. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 189 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabaković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic to Article 189. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 189 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 189 of the amendment was submitted by MP Maja Lausevic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 189. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Jorgvanka Tabaković and Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 191 of the amendment was submitted by MP Maja Lausevic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic to article 191. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Flea.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26060	I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 191 paragraph 1 point 3, 4), 7) and 8. I explained that the SRS believes that the state in the legalisation process of objects must find a balance, define mechanisms, that is to say that the conconsequences that will arise by regulating the chaotic situation in this area are justly and evenly deployed on all those covered by this procedure. The reason for all of this is the fact that the state has for years shown no commitment to the planning of space in Serbia, but by leaving it to the verse indirectly drive natural and legal persons into illegal construction. You are here in an explanation why the amendment is not accepted that it is for the reason that its acceptance would violate the basic concept of the law regarding the subsequent issue of a building permit, i.e. legalisation of the facility. But let's not be too long, Mr. Minister, a lot of amendments have been accepted and I think it's okay. There's one fact that fell for my eyes. There are MPs in the Assembly who sit, who are builders by profession, and I noticed that no amendment has been submitted to this law. I'm only able to have two interpretations - or they're not in the profession and they know they're only holding a shovel, and they don't seem to know they're doing it either, or they're responding to this kind of legalisation, to come into a situation to legalize the objects they've acquired from criminal activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26061	On Article 191 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 191 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 191 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 191 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic to Article 193. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Arsen Đurić, Milan Lapčević, Vladimir Milentijevic, Radojko Obradović, Miroslav Petkovic, Zoran Nikolic, Zeljko Tomic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 196 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go. The word is made by MP Milan Nikolic. Mr. Nikolic will, but I don't know on what basis. You can't. You'll follow your amendment, wait. Here you go, Mr. Milan M. I'll never see you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26062	Dear People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 196 in front of the SRS. In Article 196 after the word 'project', the words 'Procedure of property rights' shall be deleted. This article is not long, so I will read it for reasons of understanding: 'With a request for the subsequent issue of a construction permit for works on the construction of a building for which a building permit has been granted, according to the regulations applicable until the date of entry into force of this law, which is waived from the approval granted for the construction and approved main project, evidence shall be provided of the right of ownership, i.e. the lease over the building land, i.e. property rights on the facility, project of a project carried out, etc.' I believe that the facilities for which a building permit has been issued under the previously applicable law are then regulated property relations and that at this point in legalisation it is not necessary to burden the owners of the facilities to prove property again. All of this other is fine, so they'll deliver a state of performance and property confirmation, and the land certificate has been regulated in the previous procedure. I think it's useful for those who go into legalization and it's unnecessary to deal with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26063	The amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic to Article 196. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 197 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26064	In Article 197(1), the words ‘or a contract certified in court’ shall be deleted after the words ‘relations’ are deleted and the words ‘or a contract certified in court’ are added. Point 1) says – for an object built on a building land owned by another person, a judicial decision establishing the right of property on land, which the owner has obtained in accordance with the rules on property relations, I am asking to add "or a contract certified in court". The Government’s explanation for why the amendment is not accepted is that Article 197(2) provides for the possibility to submit a contract certified by the competent court as evidence. It is true that this is foreseen, but at point 2). In point 1), this is not foreseen. I have to realize that point 1) and point 2) predict two different legal situations. Point 1) provides that the facility is built on building land owned by another person, unlike point 2) and does not provide that evidence of resolved property-legislative relations in the legalisation process may be submitted by a contract certified in court. I'm saying it's predicted at point 2) and there's nothing controversial about it. However, I ask the amendment to be provided for in point 1) and for a building building plot in the possession of another person. The government's flat-rate assessment that this is provided for in point 2) does not mean anything. I suggest you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26065	Member of the 197th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26066	Mr. Minister, this amendment refers to the date of 13 May 2003, and the SRS considered that the limit you provide for under this law should be deleted, i.e. to amend the provision on the date of entry into force of this law. I believe that what we have proposed in this law is the absolute spirit of what you said earlier – that you want to legalise the practical state, that is, the existing situation on the ground. I don't know how you plan on doing that without imposing certain time limits. Legalization in itself, since the state has done its inaction in the past 10 years, many in the process of lawless construction have forced discrimination against those who have worked in one regular or legal way, at least where they have had opportunities. Now if we decide and accept that from illegal to legal, and we make that intersection in the state, then why would those who were subject to legalization be discriminated against, or those who built the facilities by 2003, and after May 2003, they can't. You're going to have to do this, do or accept this, because we really don't know how you think you're doing it and whether it's possible to determine the fact that it fits the truth, which objects were built on May 12th, which was built on May 18th, 2003.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26067	The amendment was submitted by MP Maja Lausevic to Article 197. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov to article 198. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26068	You see, Mr. Minister, we insist on defending our amendments. I want to make an amendment on the legalisation process to draw your attention that it was necessary to leave an appropriate deadline. We've determined that it's 30 days for the law enforcement authority, so for the state authority or for local self-government, and 30 days again to whoever requested legalisation to be able to complete his request. We think it's necessary for the legal process to run properly. There have been stories here that there are many legal requirements here, in certain municipalities indeed, especially in Belgrade. The fact is that these commissions have made a lot of demands and processed them and have made a very large number of solutions that the facility is possible to legalise, but that citizens simply did not have the interest or had enough money to go to the Directorate and make a deal with the Directorate, so that they could request a building permit later. So many who do not have a building permit, but have solutions that their facilities can be legalized, which is enough for them to know that they will not be removed. It's true about legalization in certain municipalities. I can say that reliably for the Zemun municipality, which really had a large number of legalisation requirements and not because there was some urban chaos, but because in 1997 and 1998 we formed three new settlements after an exodus of Serbs from Krajina and BiH, and so plannedly built settlements, that you could now only make an airplane recording and have a plan-making act, no changes, so with all the boulevards and left space for all the other infrastructure, underground or whatever else. So that's what adorned Zemun, but what I want to say, and I think that's what we told you in principle, unfortunately, this law won't help us move any faster into the legalisation process, because it simply won't be able to get the city of Belgrade within this time limit that you left to bring in the planning documents for the whole city. If they do, they're for the Nobel Prize, believe me. Half of New Belgrade, half the city's Zemun core, has no planning documents, so how do we legalize it? So, God help us, the effort seems obvious, but I don't think we have the right way to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26069	The amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic to article 199. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic to Article 199. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Maja Lausevic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to the 101st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Jorgvanka Tabaković and Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 202, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, who wants a word. Do you want a word, Mrs. Pop-Lazic? No, I don't. ) On Article 203 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The 204th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26070	Mr. Minister, I'll cut the story to 15 seconds, but tell me how you'll apply these provisions in article 204. Just explain to us that within 90 days, by which oatmeals, rules, principles, and with what inhuman efforts will you provide you with a list of objects built after 13 May, which are not destroyed? First question - why didn't you knock them down? Why didn't you force the municipalities to comply with the 2003 law? That's the story from a moment ago when I said let's let go of pulsism. You have decided to legalize illegally built buildings and legalize them, so define the country's strategic, or sustainable development accordingly. You know what's gonna open this up in the municipalities that you're trying to make them respect the laws now, their obligations, and you haven't made it in 10 years. A few days ago, the lady sitting next to you on TV said -- we don't have an accurate insight into illegally built objects on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and that's because no one had a legal obligation to do so. I'm paraphrasing you, that's what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26071	The amendment was submitted to Article 204 by MP Maja Lausevic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. Member of the 205th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26072	In Article 205, the word "Minister" is replaced by the word "Ministership". In addition to the principled attitude of the SRS, it is not just now an example for this ministry, the SRS advocates in many of the resolution ministries that the word "minister" be replaced by the word "ministership" for several reasons, as we have explained before. With all due respect to Mr. Minister's profession, we believe that some sublaws should be followed by the ministry, not the minister. I would use more time to defend the amendment that, given that the minister was not present in my previous presentation on the privatisation of certain companies in an incorrect and incorrect way, where companies were taken over with 25% and 30% of the real value, meaning no market value, etc., we believe that a great damage has been done to the Serbian economy and the Serbian state. It's the only thing that's getting deeper through this law right now. If it is known in the morning, Mr. Minister, if you apply such a similar law to agricultural land, Serbia will be left without its cadastre and without its ownership. On many examples, such as the Agricultural Land Act, I don't know if you ministers are talking between you there in the government, but the Agricultural Land Act has not been implemented in the Republic of Serbia, you won't even implement it for more reasons. Because the people who brought you into power, you provided the tycoons with state land to use in many ways, and by this law on building land, you provide your tycoons, who have not brought you to power, but who are keeping you in power today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26073	National MP Vlatko Ratkovic submitted an amendment to Article 205. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 210 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Stanojevic to Article 213. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic to Article 213. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Maja Lausevic to Article 213. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. National MP Bojana Stanojevic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 213a be added after article 213a. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic to Article 214. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Arsen Đurić, Milan Lapčević, Vladimir Milentijevic, Radojko Obradović, Miroslav Petkovic, Zoran Nikolic, Zeljko Tomic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramović to Article 219. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26074	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I did not have the will and desire to discuss while Mrs. Comic was chaired, but since you are back, I must report on this amendment. So, Ministers, I have submitted an amendment to Article 219 of Section 1. In the government's explanation, I received an answer for the entire article 219, which was offered in response to all the MPs who participated in the amendment to this article and absolutely this response from the Government did not refer to the question I asked, so I have to explain this. Therefore, units of local self-government that have not made a spatial plan of the municipality until the date of entry into force of this law will decide on the development of a local self-government unit's spatial plan within three months. I don't think there's any need for a single decision to be made by the local self-government unit for more than 30 days, with Articles 219 and 3 scheduled deadlines, if there are derogations to these plans to comply or if they have a three-month deadline. In order to bring the spatial plan into line with the provisions of the laws of the units of local self-government, it will decide within three months of the date of entry into force of this law. So there are already some deadlines that are defined, the explanation doesn't say that. I have not even set an amendment to this response, but I have asked for a decision within 30 days; for a decision to be taken, not to implement a decision, it is already stated in the rest of the part. You remember all the presentations of the law, the current law, from 2003, which was in the Sava Center, when the pompously announced shutting down and abolishing of existing urban plans and the obligation to adopt new ones within 18 months, with the threat that, if they are not done within the deadline, the state will be involved in the cost of the municipality. Right away, and it was suspicious of the bear being scared with a grate. To comment on what would happen if the municipalities didn't do it, then the legislators somewhat and cynically declared that politicians would feel it in the next local elections, but none of it was. So it's been 18 months, the vast majority of municipalities don't get the right plans, no one's head hair was missing, donations were being chased, money projects were being done, but around urbanism nobody broke (President: It's been two minutes. Bring the end, finish the thought. "), then the resolute minister again passed a law in which the time-limits of the turkey dot are spoken in fact not valid, we were joking, we're going to start over. It is therefore good to adopt this amendment (President: three minutes). ) he only makes the time limit in which the decision is made.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26075	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Milorad Buh, to Article 219. Here you go, Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26076	Gentlemen, I am not going to engage in the review of the amendments, but I will generally make a fundamental remark about everything that concerns local self-government and the production of spatial-planned documentation. The general conclusion is that local self-government has failed to fulfil the task set by the earlier Law on Planning and Construction, it will not do so now. Why? There are two reasons. The first reason is that local self-government does not have enough resources to produce spatial-planned documentation and the deadlines laid down by law for the production of spatial-planned documentation will certainly not be respected. Without the help of the state, without the assistance of the republican budget, local self-government will not be able to meet that obligation. All that is the purpose of this law will not be fulfilled. That's why, Minister, you must now find opportunities to provide funds to the local self-government, because this job will be nothing. We've been painting for nothing, you've been having a public debate, you've hired certain institutes, etc., there's no help until the Republic budget provides funds. Furthermore, there are not enough quality educated people who can work in this problem and that is a fundamental observation. I think you understand the essence of what I've said and I think the experience we have since 1998 clearly shows that there is no end to the work of creating space-planning documentation, and I'm particularly saying that from the aspect of legalization. There is no finalisation of legalization without the production of spatial-planned documentation and no means to be provided by you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26077	The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to Article 219. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26078	In Article 219, paragraph 3 of the word "three months" is replaced by the words "30 days". Mr. Minister, this is about making a decision on a general regulation plan for a populated place with a seat of less than 30,000 inhabitants. You have predicted that these, conditionally small places, make a decision on their plans within three months of the entry into force of this law. Since we're in a situation where we're less and less building, but especially when we're less and less building up in these very small places, we should at least encourage them to start off dead points. The first step towards this goal should be to speed up the decision-making of the general regulation plan. Why? Often, the lack of a general regulation plan was a stumbling block in investment and in some projects that could also have a pass-by in these small places. After that, this was also the basic reason why the money didn't come into this small environment and into this undeveloped community, and then it was even more underdeveloped, the vicious circle continued and all that sudden. Start thinking about these small places too, there are good projects in these small places, and the first step in that is to accept the amendment and shorten the deadline within which local self-government in these small cities will decide on a general regulation plan. They can make this decision even within deadlines that are much shorter and than this deadline that we have predicted, therefore, shorter than 15 days. But we believe that a 15-day period is appropriate for them to make this decision and I suggest you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26079	The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to Article 219. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26080	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, my goal is to prove by explaining this amendment that you work with a lot of volunteering. counterpart Mirko Munjic explained, as the amendment is to the same position of Article 219 of this law, what is the obligation of local self-government that has less than 30,000 inhabitants. You, in rejecting this amendment, are giving an explanation that the deadlines needed to draw up these plans are just as much. I don't even mention a deadline here. So it remains these three months, but the entry into force of the general regulation plan ceases to apply certain documents and I say that it should be deleted. You really have one volunteer approach to this. Let's accept that there's been a lot of amendments, so you're a little tired. There's one more thing I want to tell you at the end of this debate. We can't trust you, you did try very well to participate in today's debate, but you witnessed when the chairman and president of the National Assembly gave the floor to Mrs Verice Radetti. The squirrel Radeta asked clearly - if I could get a replica. Then Mrs. Gordana Komic came and said, "No replica, you're taking time from the parliamentary group." I attach this comment to the amendment to Article 96 that I submitted, when we said how and how public building land can be alienated. If in front of the public, if in front of the cameras someone who runs the sessions of this assembly can tell one faceless lie, I must say, there is no milder term, it does not apply to you, then we are not sure that your sublegal acts can be of sufficient quality and that there will be no such or similar situations in them. If the fatigue was when you gave the answer to this, I can understand it, and if it's intention, then it's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-25-0.u26081	The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 219. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic to Article 219. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Svetlana Stojakovic-Milovanovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 221a be added after article 221a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 222 of the amendment was submitted by MP Maja Lausevic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, submitted an amendment to Article 224, which the government accepted. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ( ) There have been enough explanations and clarifications from our minister today, who has indeed been very active and quality involved in discussions and clarifications. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of MPs, I find that there are 99 MPs in the Assembly. To accurately determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert identification cards into the MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 registered MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third are present and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs: Borislav Pelevic, Elvira Kovac, Nikola Krpić, Momo Colaković, Konstantin Arsenijević, Đuro Perić, Mladen Grujic, Vlajko Senić, Balint Pastor, Riza Halimi, Laslo Varga and Arpad Fremond. According to Article 88(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that I have called for the meeting, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Dr Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, to be attended by Aleksandra Damjanović-Petrović, Assistant Minister Nebojsa Janić, Assistant Minister, Ljilja Stanojevic, Assistant Minister, Nenad Tesla, Director of the Republic Geodetic Institute, Željko Jurakić, Director of the Environment Protection Fund and Svetlana Ristić, Independent Advisor, and for the search in particular on points 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20 of the agenda. In addition to the representatives of professor Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health, and Dr Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, the session also attends Perisa Simonovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health. We move to the 13th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE CIVIL PREMER AND CATASTRU (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs at the bill: Gordana Pop-Lazić, Sreto Perić, Mirko Munjic, Zoran Krasić, Aleksandar Martinović, Dejan Mirović, Boris Alexic, Milorad Buha, Vjerica Radeta, Maja Lausevic, Petar Jojic, Radoslav Milovanovic and Zoran Nikolic. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The amendments were withdrawn by MP Zoran Nikolic to article 12 and MP Sreto Peric to Article 27. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Do you want a word, Mrs. Pop - Lazic? Here you go.
