ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12095	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 175 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs have found that more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Sinisa Stamenkovic and Momcilo Spasic. I shall also inform you that I am, in accordance with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the meeting to be attended by Slobodan Ilic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Vesna Hreljac-Ivanovic, Assistant Finance Minister Natasa Kovacevic, Assistant Finance Minister. I say hello to the Minister and them. According to Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called this session for Monday, January 12, 2009, so for a day which, according to Article 85, paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure have not been established as the day on which the meetings are held, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for the agenda acts set by the Government in its request to hold an emergency session. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, which was called upon by the Government, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been sent to you for the maintenance of an extraordinary session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes; 5. Proposal for a law on temporary exemption from taxation on the income tax of citizens of certain types of income; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance; 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act; you have also received a proposal to merge the debate. Namely, MP Suzana Grubjesic, based on Article 90(3) and Article 140(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to consider in a joint principle review the draft Act on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on Assets; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Republic of Administrative Taxes; Proposal for a Law on temporary exemption from the taxation of the income tax of citizens of certain types of income; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Obligatory Social Insurance; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. Does MP Susana Grubjesic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Two out of 126 MPs voted for 124. I find the proposal accepted. Work on the agenda. We move to a common principle search of the 1-7th item of the agenda: – PROPOSES OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CARIN TARIFI, IMPLEMENTS, ACCISES, THE REPUBLIC ADMINISTRATIVE TABLES, EXCIPTION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE CIVILITY, SOCIAL AND PENSION-INVALIDS A CONCERNING DECISION OF THE National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the law on the agenda under points 1 to 7 and before the opening of the common principle search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: Parliament's Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the MP group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the sending group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to apply for a word with the order of MPs, if they have not already done so. I would like to inform you that MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them: MP Zoran Nikolic, DSS-Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group; MP Zoran Kasalovic, the SPS-JS parliamentary group; Lidija Dimitrijevic, the SRS parliamentary group and MP Elvira Kovac, the Parliamentary Group of Minorities. In accordance with Article 140(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the draft agenda law (points 1-7). According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Milos Aligrudic first appeared, then Miss Natasa Jovanovic, and Elena Christmas. Mr. Aligrudic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12096	Pursuant to Article 225(1) and (2)26. Dear fellow citizens, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the New Year and Christmas holidays, even though I did it in advance, before the end of last year. Unfortunately, we have not seen each other for so long, and fortunately, this assembly should be more common, especially under pressure from the ruling coalition when it comes to unadopted bill proposals, and we welcomed January 12th. That's not why I answered. I answered for other reasons. In front of the New Year's Eve, a public calendar has been printed and shared, which has a map that looks like this (shows). It is a map – the Duke's Republic, which touches within itself and something that does not belong to the current administrative borders of the AP Vojvodina. Those who printed this map presented it as the idea of the Duke's Republic. So it's an anti-constitutional act, which I suppose should be the responsibility of the state authorities to respond, to discover the perpetrator, even though the perpetrator here has been legitimateized as the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, but I guess the police and the prosecution in this country should do something about it, and that the public calling for the collapse of constitutional order should be sanctioned. That's actually what my question is, and I want to know, very quickly I want an answer to that question, if it can in the day, what have the state authorities done to this matter? However, the political background of this is very clear to me. So, in the vanguards of the job of adopting a new statute, the constitutional statute of the AP Vojvodina, the main bearers of this business, and above all DS, had to prepare the public in some way, so this was printed for that purpose, that is my interpretation, since the DS is the contractor of this business, she was obviously looking for the perpetrator and it was easy for our Social Democrats League to create an effect on the citizens. Citizens would say: well, if some small party that happens to be part of the ruling coalition would not have crossed the censorship if they hadn't taken it under theirs, made a calendar of Vojvodina or a picture of Vojvodina's republic, then dear citizens and fellow citizens should be happy with the anti-constitutional statute of Vojvodina, because you see, we are a medium solution that will simply protect Serbian citizens from the idea of the Vojvodina Republic. It is the real political background of this map that Serbian citizens unfortunately had the opportunity to see. I want an answer to my question that I asked: what did the Serbian state authorities do to discover the perpetrators of this act and what measures did they take? I want an answer to that question today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12097	Miss Natasa Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12098	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, unfortunately after completion of the work on December 30th, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, were continued outside this institution to violate the reputation of the National Assembly. I'm reporting for an article. 104, 225 and 226, due to the fact that during the time and in anticipation of the most joyful Orthodox holiday, the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ, the orchestrated, the most disgusting and worst possible campaign against the SRS and ours in The Hague was continued by the six years of the imprisoned president, Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, we Serbian radicalists were elected on the SRS-Dr. Vojislav Seselj list. Dr Vojislav Seselj was the first candidate and bearer of our list, and I ask you, because of his reputation, because of the dignity of all Serbian citizens who support his patriotic and heroic struggle and because of the MPs of Serbian radicals, because of the reputation of this institution of the most legislative authority, to read to you what the president of our party had to talk about on January 8th, the second day of Christmas, when his process that enters the finale before the judges of The Hague tribunal was continued. Dr Vojislav Seselj, president of our party, said: "I have been campaigned against in Serbian media for a long time by orchestrated campaign with very serious accusations, with accusations constantly repeated, not only by Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic, but by some people that I have ordered from The Hague to kill Tomislav Nikolic and that he has already avoided the murder twice. I demand that you order the tribunal's Secretariat to review all my phone calls, clues that I've forced anyone to do something similar. In those four months, I was visited here in The Hague only by my wife. You know very well that the Secretariat on my visits is the most rigorous. I can be visited by my wife, my sister, my sons, my daughter-in-law, my grandkids and once-in-law counselors, and now that's been questioned. No closer and further cousin, no friend and acquaintance can visit me. I think "," says Dr. Seselj, "this isn't accidentally staged to order someone's murder because they created a picture of a man who's prepared for something like that... I remind you that, in parallel with this, a trial is being prepared here for contempt of the court, due to alleged pressure on witnesses of charges, blackmail, etc. Secondly, the latest, one heavy defamation, here I have no opportunity to come forward in public, I have no opportunity to give statements to journalists, and it is said in Serbian media, and this comes from the same circle of faces, so Nikolic and Vukic, that the SRS is in agreement with the regime in order to allow the vote of the budget to be given two million euros, that I participated, so Dr Seselj from The Hague jail, that I approved that the money be accepted. Please, at the time of the budget debate... (President: Time. I didn't have any more visits, no more wives, no more kids, no more no more. All my contacts could only have been tapped by phone. I have actively participated in the budget adoption negotiations (you will allow me only briefly, because this is about all of us), but it is about the conditions that my party has highlighted on my initiative, exclusively political, not monetary or corruptional. '' (President: Please bring the end. ) Mrs. Djukic - Dejanovic, I am done. "Since later Mr. Antonetti, as President of the Council, said that he, like all members of the Council, had no knowledge and that it was obviously a great slander. "To knock on the door soon, this year, Dr Vojislav Seselj, many make up fear into bones in a political sense, so they invent some attacks, and of course everything from Tadic's kitchen around corruption. Those who used to, while in the SRS, receive money from Boris Tadic and the tycoon, now invent such things against the man, whom Mr Batic said nicely... (President: Time. Please, Miss Jovanovic, bring the end. )......................................................................................................... And for that I thank you, that by returning to Serbia, God will soon be the moral winner, which you have well concluded, Mr Batic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12099	Ladies and gentlemen, just before I informed you about how much for certain parliamentary groups of time available for discussion, I have made one review. I did not inform you that Mr. Vladan Batic, MP of the Democratic Party, has been available for five minutes and I apologize to you. Mrs. Elena Christmas-Talian has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, also, go ahead and then Mr. Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12100	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of 225 and 226. The SRS will not cross the shameless lies and inventions that are daily against the SRS and Prof. Vojislav Seselj by Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vucic. Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic, as allies of The Hague Prosecutor's Office, are campaigning directly against Vojislav Seselj. The entire campaign, with morbid inventions, created by Alexander Vukic, began in late October. Lies have been issued that Vojislav Seselj allegedly ordered the liquidation of Nikolic and Vukic. At that time, Vukic made a spectacular announcement that the killing of Nikolic was threatened by a certain Niko Gajic from Krtkovci, allegedly on the orders of Vojislav Seselj. Turns out there's no such thing as a man under that name in the Krtkovci. Then Vukic came out with crazy accusations that he was the target of the assassin under Vojislav Seselj's directive, and for this alleged potential assassin, he declared our duke Vasili Vidovic, who is disabled, who walks through a stick and who is a severe heart patient. Based on Nikolic's claims at the time that Seselj was an assassin, the newspaper was full of titles like these: Seselj seeks blood, Seselj sentenced me to death and similar. There's been a ruthless campaign against a man who is unable to deny these scandalous accusations. Now, two and a half months later, Tomislav Nikolic makes completely the opposite claims that Seselj had nothing to do with this alleged assassination and explains that it was, in all likelihood, an imaginary assassination that was the fruit of several people's conversations and that it was not anyone's directive. Nikolic practically admitted that he had slandered Vojislav Seselj at the time and had led the hunt against an innocent man by calling him a murderer. But Vukic again urges Nikolic to make the position of Vojislav Seselj in the tribunal any way difficult and a new round of campaigns with identical inventions begins. Nikolic again accuses Vojislav Seselj of allegedly being a superior, but now, he says, another assassination attempt on Nikolic. The same hack of Vojislav Seselj and the SRS followed, and again the same headlines in the paper as two and a half months ago. The whole story looks like a lardy, especially when Nikolic is one of the key figures in the preparation of the alleged assassination, declared by Dragan Todorovic, the party's vice president and the head of the parliamentary group. I suppose it's hard for everyone to wash out the fabula of this amazing story, but it's not the end either, because Nikolic and Vukic are now placing new information, according to which everyone wants to get rid of Tomislav Nikolic, and tycoons, and radicals, and small parties that are now in power. ''Now you see how important and significant Tomislav Nikolic is on the political scene. Since Tomislav Nikolic declares that the data relating to these alleged assassinations on him, as well as that the police prevented that alleged assassination at the end of September, the SRS is demanding that the MUP and BIA urgently deliver information on whether they have any knowledge of the alleged assassination of Tomislav Nikolic, as well as whether the SRS and Vojislav Seselj are in any way involved in the planning of this alleged assassination?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12101	Mr. Nenad Canak, and then Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, as head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12102	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Aligrudic has shown the LSV calendar for this year. I am truly grateful to Mr Aligrudić for helping us reach the general public to the real truth about this calendar and about a truly impressive amount of ignorance demonstrated by Mr Aligrudić. The premises he speaks of, which require the surroundings of Vojvodina, are the premises of the 1848 Duke of the Serbian and Timo Banat. Mr. Aligrudic, you would do well to learn better about Serbian history, so you would know what it really represents. As for the Whisper, which you mentioned, this is a map... You didn't mention "Saboac"? No, I don't. ) I apologize, but the mention of the Whisper in connection with this map is completely malicious for the simple reason, which he only finds written in this territory, while the city itself is marked outside the territory of Vojvodina, where he belongs. So when we look closer, we see what happened. It happened that this calendar, which was first printed exactly 10 years ago, in 1999, in the same form, has now begun to cause interest. What's the reason for that? The reason is very simple -- there's no gas, there's a crisis that needs to be found new enemies now. I'll remind you, Mr. Aligruditch, to look at this place right here, this place is called Banatski Dvor. This is where the underground storage of the empty gas is located, thanks to Dr Vojislav Kostunica and his criminal government that you supported. It is a place for the citizens of this country to freeze now for days, a place that thanks to your work, not doing what they should do, which is to ensure Serbia's energy independence. That is why, Mr. Aligrudic, I warn you to get a little better acquainted with Serbian history and to pay attention to the walls of the city of Belgrade, which are now covered with posters on which they are located, one by the other, Obilic, Karadjordje and Ratko Mladic. That doesn't bother you. You don't mind because for you it doesn't matter what happens to this country, it's important for you to chase witches. I'm not coming to your fire.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12103	Mr Tomislav Nikolic. To inform you that the session of the Constitutional Affairs Committee is at 1400 hours in the Blue Salon and that Serbia's authorised representative will be Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic for the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12104	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I demand an answer from the Government of the Republic of Serbia why Serbia has fallen into such an energy crisis, why has everyone, from child to pensioner, feared whether it will be heated at the time of the biggest colds, why has the only one in the Balkans, perhaps even in Europe, not had half an hour of energy reserves? Why didn't the government do anything about it, who authorized Serbia's president to negotiate some auxiliary amounts of gas from Hungary, Austria, Germany, whether we may have a government or not, whether the government has tasked Boris Tadic to negotiate the gas we were supposed to get and does that mean we don't have a Minister of Energy and we don't have a Prime Minister? I ask the question of how much this gas costs now, how many losses are daily because we had to intervene when his time wasn't? We will submit today a motion for the discharge of the Minister of Energy. Of course, everyone has an explanation for what happened in the past. We would also like to know what has happened in the past, who has done as much to have energy security, stability, so that we can overcome conflicts between the Russian Federation and Ukraine. I think that's the most important issue that haunts Serbia today. I think it's a question for a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The question is, how many days will it take, and how many days will it take to supply additional spare gas, especially from Hungary, which I find odd that the Minister of Energy said she has no reserves for herself, and that the day after that, Belgrade President Boris Tadic provided gas to Serbia, provided that children can be heated, made sure that nursing homes can be heated, started some kind of campaign that we can only recognise as a campaign for the upcoming snap parliamentary elections. I'm really too busy these days, and I worry too much. Remember, there is a Constitution of Serbia, there are constitutional powers. If all things can be done by Boris Tadic, let's save money, disband the Government of the Republic of Serbia, introduce a dictatorship, introduce one man's authority, but to know that then he is responsible when something happens, not only because something in Serbia, at least for five days, happens favorably. I demand an answer from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I think the president of the National Assembly should be interested in it, so that it intervenes to get that answer as soon as possible. During this speech, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12105	Although it is not a session on parliamentary issues, this practical issue will be forwarded to the government. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic, there's a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12106	Mr. Canak, when you're apostrophe of someone's alleged ignorance, you should first arm yourself with little knowledge. When it comes to this map on the calendar, if I'm not showing it again and I'm not making a unnecessary commercial, because I see it turns you on, then I have to give it up, you have to first know that no duke's republic has ever been any historical category. Find me where it's ever been recorded, so let's see. You can come to us for coffee if you want, at the DSS Parliament Club, and you'll see on the wall a hanging map of the 19th century Serbian Principality. Everything there is well-legitized, that it is the Principality of Serbia within the limits of a certain age in the 19th century and writes what it is and what it represents. What you've shown us as a historical category doesn't exist. Secondly, there was no city of Zrenjanin at the time of communism as a historical category. Thirdly, no one mentioned any areas, no Sabac, in my presentation, but you guys were bifling in advance, assuming what I was going to say. In other words, you didn't even listen to what I was saying. You weren't even interesting to me when I came to my presentation. I found it interesting for DS, because in this kind of thing, it's a job-orderer, to create another impression in the public, that there are them, as there are no doubt and there are, who would like to tear down the constitutional order, and then to say -- you see, we're for a little less destruction of the constitutional order. It was an idea, and that's what I was talking about. By the way, you as a witch aren't very interesting to me at all, so forget it at all, I don't care. As for the other things you mentioned, in fact, the most I came out of it, not because of this map and what you said, it doesn't matter what you said, it's this question of one place you mentioned on that map, and that's Banatical Court. You've said a bunch of things that have nothing to do with reality, because if we're already talking about Banatski Dvor and that warehouse that used to be the source of gas, and now it's a warehouse and it could be a good warehouse, as it is, the activation of that warehouse and the activation project of that warehouse was launched during the first government of Vojislav Kostunica, and before we did so, no one had done it. During the SPS government in the '90s, there's more to that warehouse than it could have been, because if you know anything about it, something I've learned, there's got to be a so-called. pillow gas, it's a minimum of gas standing underneath. If it goes below that minimum, it can no longer be drawn. Former Socialists, I guess they're not the ones you're in the government with right now, I have no idea, they've exhausted it below minimum and they've ruined the warehouse. Mr. Naumov's idea of reactivated that warehouse. This is what has been done since then and is done with money and technical opportunities that this country can withstand, at a pace that is possible. During Aleksandar Popovic, the warehouse was filled for the first time in recent history. So you're accusing the government and the people who actually came up with the first idea to activate it and start doing something about it. So much for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12107	Mr. Free Maras has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12108	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, here is an open question of those I thought at least had the right to open such a single question, which is the question - who is to blame for why there was no gas? I come from Novi Sad, from Vojvodina, there are more MPs here who are from Novi Sad and Vojvodina and I must tell you that we have welcomed Christmas Eve and the following days in cold and freezing apartments and houses. It's somebody's fault, and I'll tell you, Mr. Nikolic, who's to blame. The guilty are those whom you gave NIS, whom you gave to the Banatian Court. Although this country has been since 1996, there are G 17 people whose minister said the same thing and there is Minister Kalanovic, although Serbia signed the agreement with the same Russia in 1996, the dinar has not been invested since 1996 and will never invest in this country. How could they give the Croats 20% of the gas, and give Serbia, their brothers nothing, even though you gave them 51%? I have to tell you, there's 30% more expensive heating in Novi Sad since January 1st. The mayor of Novi Sad, Mr Pavlicicic, said that. I'm just wondering if in February the bills will be increased by 30% to the citizens of Novi Sad and the citizens of Vojvodina who pay that gas in such a way? The heat's down, the price's up. Believe me, they're not gonna pay for that gas for the simple reason that you made them freeze, which caused a lot of damage. I've only got one thing to read here for Mr. Aligrudic. It's a statement by Saša Ilic, director of "Srbigas", on 25 May 2008, an interview that he gave "Politice", saying that the gas underground storage of our underground has started just these days. Seven hundred and fifty thousand cc's per day. As of next month, it is expected to be even bigger, about a million cubic metres a day. We'll have about 30 million cc's of gas in Banatski Dvor. Next, he says it's true that more money needs to be invested in the Banatian Court. It takes $25 million for some compressors, and the government, watch out, May 25, promised to help set up that pillow gas. Everyone remembers Minister Aleksandar Popovic offered to resign unless the Banatski Dvor is finished. Then we come up with a paradoxical situation. Serbian President Boris Tadic says and accuses the government of Vojislav Kostunica of squandering the money from the privatisation of Telecom and did not then invest money in the Banatski Dvor. I must also remind President Tadic that he was in that government of Vojislav Kostunica, that he had most ministers. By 2008 Mr Tadic was with Kostunica in the government. Mr Tadic co-habitated with Kostunica since 2004. In the year, the same government, the same parties were in the government, both G 17 and SPO. I think there's one big problem here, nobody's asking a question of responsibility. Those who donate state property are responsible, and they don't get anything for it, those who showed that Serbia played Russia's ninth hole, as he liked the president of a government to say. Unfortunately, I think these situations will be repeated, and this gas story, of course, will not end on this. I say once again, if the citizens arrive by 30% increased gas bills, for heating, be assured that the citizens will not pay them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12109	The word has a folk MP, Zeljko Tomic, and then Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12110	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Rule 104 of our Rules of Procedure, which speaks of the dignity of the Assembly, which I think Mr Nenad Canak has violated. He broke it by saying that Mr. Aligrudić said something that he didn't, so that he put the hat in the context of your story, and the fictional story, we were all witnesses to it, is one cast of fog, or dust in the eyes. It doesn't matter what the Whispers question is, to go back to some Danube bank now, to Baranja, what were the parts of the Vojvodina, which they weren't. That's not the point. It is that at the end of the 1970s and early 1980s last century, the Kosovo Republic trembled 22 million Yugoslavs, and on your calendar, the Vojvodina Republic, about seven million citizens of this country smiled. That's what this is about. Your "Vojvod's Republic" password is important, not some Shabatz, and I don't know what. What did you mean by that, that's what we're asking you - what is "the Duke's Republic"? Maybe you've been giving answers in the last few years and the last few weeks, when you said you didn't need a statute, you needed a constitution. When you said that after Yugoslavia fell apart, only the issue of Vojvodina remained unresolved. This means that the Kosovo issue has been resolved, so you think Yugoslavia had eight constituent units, with the right to self-determination? Does that mean? When you said Vojvodina had five neighbours, were they Hungary, Romania, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who else do you put in the same basket - Serbia? So for Vojvodina, the same is for Serbia and Croatia and Romania and Bosnia and Herzegovina -- that's for you. These are your intensities and tendencies, so you once said that Vojvodina should co-operate with Croatia within the framework of interregional co-operation, not with a particular Slavonian County, but with the state of Croatia - and you are talking about interregional co-operation. You're not a problem, you're just a test balloon DS, the main party in the ruling coalition, and that's the problem. That's the problem with DS, when he makes his party as an enterprise, so whether it's AD, so it's the DOO, and Pajtic is going to make a OUR and, using you as a test balloon to see how far he can go, he's going to make some statute that you're going to vote here without a single member of DS van Vojvodina ever talking about the Statute of Vojvodina. (President: Time. That's what this is about. I just don't know how long you think it's gonna last, and don't the citizens recognize this, this game? What should be strongly condemned is not so much Nenad Canak, but the behaviour of the DS divided into two camps -- the Vojvodina Democratic Party and the Democratic Party here in Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12111	Mr Dusan Bajatovic, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12112	Dear fellow MPs, I'd like to inform you of some things. I think it's good that it goes with this pay phone and you as MPs. I fully understand the need to profit a little and politically in this arena, but it will not help citizens to supply gas. How are things now? We were between three and nine this morning having a complete gas stop again, which means we're driving this whole thing on a razor blade. Tadic wasn't lying. He was helping. Deliverys continue after nine hours and we currently get only 4.7 million cubic metres of gas. We are working to get more and at this point it meets the needs of consumers of individual and remote heating systems that cannot move on to a mule. I'd like the MPs to take it seriously. We can have a serious problem with maintenance and the power system and some other things. What I'm trying to tell you is, when you're already discussing the Banatian Court and responsibility, is - should responsibility be determined - yes? The Banatski Dvor project has existed since 1976. So we can charge the late Tito, but it won't help us too much. It is true that at this point there are 130 million cubic metres of gas. It is true, gentlemen, that the DSS ministers tried to print some quantities in co-operation, through Serbiagas, but what is worth it to us. It's like a gas tank without a pump. There's no adequate technical facility. So, a complete technical facility that allows for the printing of three million cubic metres down and the extraction of five million, with a pipeline, whose production is under way, therefore by pipeline, costs 20m euros, or 21,800,000 euros -- that is where responsibility should be sought. Is it true that Serbia has not had 21,800,000 euros all this time? I'm saying she did. Anything else can be our upgrade - could we, when we could. So the first warning was sanctions that lasted too long for one warehouse. I agree that it was then exhausted by the rules of gas extraction. The other yellow card was the 2006 crisis after which adequate moves were not made. Everything else would be our debate in front of the citizens, where we would like to justify our actions, our political parties, or our directors, who were at that moment performing certain duties in public enterprises. I appeal to you not to tell the citizens of untruth in the sense that gas, regardless of what the dollar will be cheaped because of the exchange rate differences, will continue to work with the loss and will continue to be subsidized by 1.5m to $2m a day. So at this point, there is some kind of social responsibility to citizens. What can really be endangered, I will only spend two more sentences, gas re-supply, when this situation is over -- it will be the ongoing indifference of Serbiagas. At this point, local self-government doesn't have the money for heating subsidies. (President: Time. I only apologize two more sentences. The charge fell below 50% and we're short 6 million dinars for January. It's going to be so short, and it's not all loss, it's going to pay for the gas. Don't let it happen to us, when Russian observers deploy, and there won't be gas deliveries before the Russian observers deploy, as they told us from Gazprom -- that we provide the Russian gas flow and that it will be shut down because we haven't paid for it. I think that in this sense we should raise the responsibility of all of us - businesses and citizens, and remote heating systems, and local self-government, and above all the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because we need to find the possibility that these quantities of gas we really have, people, and we pay. Don't tell people fairy tales that the gas will be free - it won't. As far as diversifying sources and power supply, we have only one pipe at the moment, which is from Hungary. I want to tell the truth because 2 million cubic meters is really from Hungary, and 2.7 million really are from Germany, because there are some people who don't believe in that situation either. (President: Time. ) We'd better make some extraordinary circumstances and, let's say, in the next 90 days, finish the warehouse in Banatski Dvor, and the responsibility to perform it on the basis of facts. I apologize, Madam Chairman, for breaking time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12113	Thank you. He has the word Mr. Velimir Ilic, and then Mr. Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12114	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia faces major problems. We have seen that even in the new year, these problems are growing more and more, instead of some being solved -- we have more and more from day to day. On the contrary, we have an irresponsible team in the ruling coalition. Here, it was heard here that a man was discussing something he didn't comment on -- that someone in one country was publishing a map, that he was dividing the state, that he was tearing it up, that he was doing it all the time. Of course, he is part of the ruling coalition and you should ask about this question, to ask Boris Tadic. That's his pen, that's his tub. Nenad Canak, what is he doing here I don't know? But Dad sent him here to be, so he's okay with it. So this is a question for gentlemen of the ruling coalition -- whether they support it or they are being fenced. They didn't even come forward after that discussion when he said they were going to make a constitution, and they're not advertising now, and neither is when he published the passport, all with some joke. We want this country to be some kind of circus, but we're not gonna let that happen. Serbia has the strength to make one serious state, but of course many must leave the government, many political parties must disappear, and some gods must be banned. The second question as far as gas is concerned, it is true that few funds were missing to finish Banatski Dvor. It is true that no serious state can use gas in the winter period without gas reserves, without storage. It is true that the government of Vojislav Kostunica saw it, singled out its resources and started working on the project. It is true that the project would be completed that in 2007, in the second half, DS representatives in the government of the Republic of Serbia then required that the constitution be respected and the funds transferred to the Vojvodina capital fund, led by Mr Pajtic and his team. It is true that all the money for the defence dikes, for the water supply, for the treatment of the canal, for the road infrastructure, for the completion of the Banatski Dvor warehouse, was transferred to Mr Pajtic and the Vojvodina Capital Fund. And it's true that they spent all their money on the election campaign and didn't do anything. That's the truth, and that's why I want to repeat it here -- just give it to Paytic and his team the money... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And you will see what will befall you. Now they've taken 90% of the NIS sales, and it's gonna end up with who knows where. No serious project has been done and solved, and they've spent a lot of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12115	Thank you. The People's Messenger Zoran Nikolic has the word, and then Mrs. Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12116	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, are two reasons why I'm reporting. The first was opened by our head of the parliamentary group, Mr Milos Aligrudic, and by Mr Chank's reply to what the head of our parliamentary group said. It's not nice to go out for this pay phone, Mr. Canak, to accuse someone of not knowing things, and to tell nasty lies. This is where you told the disgusting lies. Ask yourself what you're doing it for. Probably because your conscience isn't clean, and I'll explain why your conscience isn't clean. In fact, you said this was a 19th-century map of the Serbian duchy. You're a communist child. This is a map that was defined by the 1974 Constitution, because Zrenjanin did not exist in the Serbian Duchy with that name, and you blatantly deceived the public when you said that Shabac was inscribed without being drawn. Look a little bit better, let's see if you can't see the best, but look at the point, you'll see that the Sabbath is listed in Vojvodina. Look at the sign. You didn't get a good look. Neither you are a witch, nor a witch, nor anyone plans to set you on fire or put you on fire, as you said, although European standards until the 18th century were to burn witches and witches and live in that time, I believe you would consistently implement those European standards, and often you think of it now. Secondly, you didn't write here that this is a map from what age and that this is about the Serbian Duchy, you've already written the Duke's Republic. You're absolutely irrelevant in this story. This is linked to the number of MPs and the number of votes you receive in this country from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is where the DS's position is important. You don't want to be a witch, and of course you don't want to burn at the stake, that's quite understandable, and that's where I support you, but you've agreed to play the court's mad and court spider on behalf of the DS, to scare the people with these calendars, so that DS, or the Duke's wing DS, could get through the Duke's statute and that's the whole game. What confirms that my thesis is the fact that the DS is silent about this. It's not enough for the president to say this is stupid, this isn't your first time. You recently said here, if you were wondering, Vojvodina wouldn't have a statute, it would have a constitution. You have also printed the passports of the Republic of Vojvodina. You've done a lot of things, you've done this. It's time for the authorities to deal with this matter. Don't spin this subject and don't switch it to gas, because this topic has nothing to do with this, and as far as gas is concerned, there's not a single word you can say here, because you're... (President: Time. ) The government is told that if it increases the price of gas by 60%, you will not support it. And how you support this government, and how the government increased the price of gas by 60%, and you're in the same situation as the pensioners were when they claimed to agree on pensions, and then they didn't. Just one more question, it takes 15 seconds, when we talk about the obstruction of parliament, the ruling majority is obliged to create conditions for normal work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Today we have united seven points on which we will have a joint debate, but the authorised representative, i.e. the Government has delivered to the National Assembly that representatives of Mrs Verica Kalanovic, the Minister of the NIP, and Mr Oliver Dulic are authorized for six points. However, the 7th point is missing, this is the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO, we do not know who the authorised representative is. If the debate is connected, we must have such paper, or we must have your memo, so that we know who the authorised representative is for that point. Without that, we can't start a debate. You delayed the hearing two hours later, after two hours, you don't know who the authorized representative is, I don't see him here. Let's ask a realistic and objective question - who is obstructing this House? You obviously don't know how to organise a normal session and a session of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12117	Mr. Nikolic, you spoke for almost five minutes, with a persuasive sound compared to Mr. Chank's MP. As far as your question is concerned, I'd just like to tell you that we united the debate half an hour ago. Technically you'll get the paper soon, in accordance with the request you made. You'll get it in writing, and then I'll read it. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12118	Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS on December 30th, the last working day of last year, following a statement by Tomislav Nikolic that the radicals had taken twom euros to vote the budget, asked the President of the Republic, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, and Finance Minister. We insist that they all plead. The first and basic question raised here -- whether there are funds within the state bodies that are corrupting politicians, and in favour of that is a statement passed on in "Politice" after the New Year. He says -- Nikolic said the Socialists promised, at Seselj's request, and two million euros, and that money may be secured from the budget or given by foreign and domestic tycoons, and the Seselj-Dacic-Tadic coalition will finally be in action. He added that Dacic was a courier, and the money is Tadic's, or state, which someone must decide on. It is high time for state president Boris Tadic, who was directly called to share money from the state budget for some corruption affairs. We, the Serbian Radicals, have never participated in this, but the president of the state has to declare it. Tomislav Nikolic's intentions were much deeper than what is seen on the surface, as he has been working intensively since 9 September to make the position of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal worse, so perhaps the tribunal should have concluded - now the radicals have twom euros, which would pay for the defence of Vojislav Seselj, because they already do not want to pay for his defence, and therefore Vojislav Seselj is unable to defend himself. Jean-Claude Antoneti in response to the questions that Natasa Jovanovic read, which Vojislav Seselj asked on January 8th, among other things he said -- the only thing I can tell you is that if the secretary came to such information through telephone surveillance, he would certainly have informed the more. The three of us here present, members of the Search Council, had no information at any time about your, possibly, involvement in any plan for the murder of Mr Nikolic and other information, i.e. on taking, participating, agreeing on the budget, for some, among other things, two million euros. Apparently, Mr. Antonetti... (President: Time. ) I end up, saying what we have been saying from the beginning, every conversation between Vojislav Seselj is heard and everything he says, and he insisted on the earthquake council, in a conversation with anyone from the party is on the watch of the UN Secretariat and of course the secretariat would intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12119	The word has the People's Messenger Elena Christmas-Talian, then Mr. Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12120	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of 225 and 226. Nikolic and Vukic, in a miserable and shameful manner, are trying to help the prosecution in The Hague tribunal and make it difficult to defend Vojislav Seselj in every way possible. As the highlight of the chase against Vojislav Seselj and SRS, Nikolic and Vukic place new inventions. One such lie is that Vojislav Seselj's request that the SRS give up the debate on the amendments was that the party should receive 2m euros. What Nikolic and Vukic do in psychology is defined as a projection of the internal problem, and it will not help them much that your conscience is trying to dissipate by attributing the SRS to what they are doing. Nikolic and Vukic are the ones who received huge amounts of money from their tycoon friends to strike the SRS and form a new party. One in a series of prizes they received was the following: Tomislav Nikolic received threem euros from Miskovic, Aleksandar Vukic received from Miskovic a million and a half euros. Knowing Vukic, I know it hit him very hard, which got twice as much money from Nikolic, especially because Vukic boasted that without him, they couldn't make a new party, because as he said, Nikolic himself without Vukic means nothing. Indeed, Miskovic insisted that "a small one", translated Vukic, must enter into this agreement. When they received the money, Nikolic and Vukic asked if it was for the party, Miskovic said - no, for the party you will receive in particular, this is for you. By the way, everything was organised by our citizen, who works for the CIA, Zoran Korac, who is in charge of co-ordination at the US ambassador, tycoon, Tadic, Dodik. It is also known for its part in the procurement of weapons and organization on 5 October, as well as in numerous murky privatisations. When Nikolic and Vukic say Nikolic is targeted by the tycoon, that's understandable. It is quite possible that Nikolic's life is in danger because of his close contacts with the tycoons, because they have received huge money to form a new party and have received a task they must carry out. The task was announced by Nikolic behind the pay phone when he said his goal was to destroy the SRS and Vojislav Seselj. Their problem is they haven't done the job, and they'll never make it. Nikolic and Vukic are even bothered when Vojislav Seselj responds to their heavy slanders about two million euros and about alleged assassinations, and that is why Nikolic recently made an agreement at the "Kesten" restaurant in Bezanija to transfer the trial to as late as possible, at least when Seselj mentioned Nikolic and Vukic, and everything to prevent citizens from following the statements of Vojislav Seselj. (President: Time. ) We demand that scandalous statements, which are related to twom euros, be urgently stated by Boris Tadic, Minister Ivica Dacic and Prime Minister Cvetkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12121	Mr. Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12122	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, in order to shorten this discussion about this calendar and all of it, and especially to respond to the demands of those who are seeking to somehow explore my work and the functioning of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and to give the answer to what the authorities intend to do, I will remind those present, many of whom were in these benches and in the past term, that a year ago the same request was filed, in the form of a parliamentary question, that the government, then whose President was Mr. Vojislav, answered that parliamentary question. So the MUP gave a clear answer that there are no elements for any activity of this type, since the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina does not have, nor does it carry out any separatist activity. In other words, the MUP officially announced this home only a year ago, and signed an answer to the parliamentary question by Kostunica, Dr Vojislav, as prime minister at the time. I think the MUP has already given an answer to these, and I would not have categorized what kind of questions, and that's what we're done with, unless someone else intends to fog the eyes of the citizens of this country and draw attention from real and objective problems. The problems are economical, the problems are international economic crises, but the problems are that none of the great people concerned about the fate of this country, who sit in this high home, remembers to notice the glued posters on the streets of Belgrade, with Oblic, Karadjord and Ratko Mladic, where they are placed in one row, which is signed by something coded called 1389, I don't know what that would be. All in all, I think it is a real problem, because if they are put together with the greats of Serbian history, Obilic and Karadjordje, people who have been accused of the most monstrous crimes, such as Ratko Mladic, thus embarrassing Serbia, the Serb people and the reputation of Serbia, who have barely returned to their feet in the past few years, are pushed back into the sun. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12123	Mr. Alexander Martinovic, then Mr. Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12124	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am first of all surprised by you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. Here one MP publicly admitted that he advocated that Vojvodina be a republic, which is directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, according to which Serbia is a single state, which has two autonomous provinces, Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija in its composition. I am truly interested in what would happen to, say, some representative in the Croatian Parliament who would publicly say that he advocates, say, for Slavonia or Dalmatia to be republics, or what would happen in the British parliament to have some MP say that Northern Ireland should be a completely independent state. In addition to you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, it seems that any statement that offends the Serbian Constitution, but also the national dignity of every Serb, can pass. I have repeatedly said that what Nenad Canak stands for today has nothing to do with those autonomists who fought for the autonomy of the Vojvodina in the 19th century. First of all, in the 19th century, the Serbian Duchy was created. There was no Republic of Vojvodina. Those who advocate the Republic of Vojvodina today have nothing to do with Patriarch Rajačić, Stevan Šupljik, Svetozar Miletic, Jasa Tomic. Those who stand for the Republic of Vojvodina today are children of communism. These are the descendants of Bosko Krunic, Zivan Berisavljevic, the descendants of those who wrote the 74th Constitution. They have nothing to do with the authentic Serbian nationalists from southern Hungary who, in order to protect Serbs from cataclysm within the framework of a foreign Habsburg monarchy, educated in 1848, the Serbian Duchy, whose composition, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, among other things, was Baranja, who, unfortunately, today was composed of another state. So, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, this is about a member of the ruling coalition, which supports the Serbian government, openly, clearly and loudly saying that it advocates Serbia's federalisation. Of course, to you from the ruling coalition, this may all seem ridiculous. We could read in the papers these days how Mr. Nenad Canak, a man who likes to cheer up citizens, is a circusr, etc. Just to remind you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, that's how it all started with the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia. Do you remember the writings of Ljubljana's 'Young People', remember that in the 1980s, they parched Yugoslavia into several independent states? Everyone laughed. Some Slovenian politicians have been saying -- these are our hoodlums, they're kiddin'. Do you know how it all ended? War, refugees, blue helmets, sandbags, etc. After all the negative experiences that the Serbian people have experienced to re-exploit us, I apologize, I end – at the beginning of the 21st century repeats the scenario of Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo and Metohija, only this time on the territory of Vojvodina? You from the ruling coalition are required to make a statement about what Nenad Canak is saying. It doesn't matter Nenad Canak, it's clear to all of us that he and his own party would not go to the polls on their own. But there's a fundamental question here -- whether what Nenad Canak says publicly, is really what the Democratic Party thinks, that's what it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12125	Mr. Free Maraš has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12126	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, we have talked here about the responsibility of the state authorities because the citizens of Serbia, and most of the citizens of Vojvodina and Novi Sad, were freezing for Christmas and for the next days. A moment ago, the director of Srbiagas, Mr. Bajatovic, said it was done for political points. I have to say this isn't a game, but if the game were safe, the Serbian government would lose to the citizens of about 10-0, since it showed that it was incompetent and it proved irresponsible. First and foremost, the key question is where are the gas supplies we had every year. Mr. Bajatovic, as director of "Srbigas" should surely know that we had supplies in previous years. I'm not saying it's his responsibility, because he only came at the end of the year to be the director of Srbiagas. But this summer, when every normal state made contracts with Gazprom and other countries, and we did it specifically with Hungary, to secure gas supplies and to store in Hungary, as it was done in previous years, you from the government shared management boards, you shared public enterprises, and then you didn't think you could repeat the 2006 crisis. When I mentioned Mr. Sasha Ilic, who announced that the Banatical Court was being filled, I was just quoting a man. This Mr. Sasa Ilic, who was the director of "Srbijagas" until before Bajatovic, is now a special adviser to the director of "Srbijagas". So much for his expertise, so much for his responsibility and so much for the truth he's telling. I just wanted to say one more thing when it comes to this gas story, as Mr. Bajatovic noted. Most of the deal you made with the Russian Federation was said by the first vice president, deputy, Interior Minister and SPS President Ivica Dacic, if the SPS had asked if he had negotiated, never would such an agreement have been made, they would never have given 51%. So much for that. Of course, he said the biggest responsibility was that the whole project was President Tadic, which we mentioned often. In the end, I'm sorry that everything we've said in the past few months only twenty days after the famous signing in Moscow, three agreements, it turns out to be true. There's no talking about energy stability, it's just about energy dependence, the citizens of Serbia have paid for it now, they'll pay in the future. We're just looking for one thing, we're looking for the responsibility of those who brought citizens into this situation, to freeze, not to know that in ten days they'll be in Serbia. And all these stories to depend on is that there's some conflict between Russia and Ukraine, we depend primarily on it, or we don't have a responsible one and we don't have a able government and that's why we're in this situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12127	Mr. Ivan Andric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12128	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, we are directly provoked by the announcement or address of Mr. Bajatovic, who now again, as when we pointed to the global economic crisis, so the various ministers came here to threaten us not to say anything because we are scaring the citizens of Serbia, and the crisis is welcome in fact, so it is now turning the topic from the specific question that we are asking. So, regardless of his or her statements on gas, which are clouded by these millions of cubics, by the length of the pipeline, by the density in these pipes, the situation is extremely simple. In 1996, a contract was signed with the Russian Federation on a gas agreement, the first so-called, under which Russia was obliged to rebuild the Banatski Dvor and build a southern gas pipeline around Nis. None of these two investments have been made until today. In 2008, the ruling majority again sign the same agreement with Russia, this time we give NIS, with the same obligation of Russia to build this Banatski Dvor. So that's not gonna happen. Serbia will again be in the same situation in a year, two or three. It will depend on what Russia's relations with a third country are, and then we'll all deal with it and watch their negotiations run. My question is: who from Serbia is responsible for this? Who's to blame for Serbia's only citizens in Europe not having gas for three, four or five days? Who's taking responsibility from here for that? Isn't Bajatovic, who became director just two weeks ago? Well, if it's not him, then who is it? Isn't he the Minister of Energy? Then who is it? I answered first of all wanting to ask one specific question and a half. 225th and 226, please, President, forward this question, which is -- under what conditions did you get gas from Hungary and Germany? On what terms? How will Serbia: give money for that gas or return that gas? That's the first question. The second question - how will the government compensate for the damage to the economy, the damage caused by the fact that the economy couldn't work, that part of the gas-using economy? Will the government return that damage and will citizens have to pay bills, and those who are individual consumers, but also those who have so-called district heating centrally, who did not have five or six days a month? Will your bills be reduced by 10%? These are two specific questions and I also ask you, Mr. Buha has always come to meet, please, President, to allow another session of the Industry Committee, so that this topic is not about plenary sessions, but about the Industry Committee where it belongs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12129	Thank you. Please have Mr. Buha schedule this session. Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12130	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and citizens of Serbia, we are all witnesses that Serbia is shaken, above all, by a political crisis caused by numerous events. Here, at the beginning of the new year, first of all because of a violation of the constitutional order of the country, we wonder what the state prosecutor is doing on this issue and why the institution is not at the height of the task, why it is going over it. Of course, there's an economic crisis and a gas shortage. Not by chance, all of a sudden, in order for one crisis to cloud the meaning of another, I think. It is clear as to the map that someone from the DSS has brought here, that the entire public can see how Nenad Canak sees part of Vojvodina and how he tries to reverse Serbian history, it is clear that the Vojvodina-Republic is a creation, first of all, the West, and it is, if you want to be all honest, a condition above all the conditions that the West sets for you in European integration. So, for them, Kosovo has already solved the issue, for us, of course not, but they believe that the issue is over. Vojvodina is being updated, but it has been preparing for years, and since 2000 you know that it is a condition for you and that is why you are grumbling over this fact and doing absolutely nothing about sharing this map with Serbian citizens and making it clear and creating a climate that Vojvodina should one day not be part of Serbia. That's what we have to honor all those who have been in power since 2000 and have made it possible for Nenada Canka, who is their only source, to deal with this issue and to do this. It's high time to open your eyes and respond to it. Secondly, it is clear that because of this and also because of the political crisis in the country, Serbia needs a leader, and what kind of leader -- the one who is morally, above all, completely clean. And who is that? It's the one Serbia is eager to see, it's Vojislav Seselj. That's why they hit him, at a time when he's in The Hague, and he's not exactly able to respond properly. Here are the messages to little Vukic, and Tomislav Nikolic and the message to Dacic - please do your best to save the lives of Vukic and Nikolic. I don't know who's threatening them, they probably know, but the public of Serbia needs to know, it's certainly not Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12131	Mrs. Elena Christmas-Talian, then Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12132	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of 225 and 226. Participants of the Hague prosecutor's office, Vucic and Nikolic, are lying about twom euros just as Vojislav Seselj is increasingly urging the tribunal to address the issue of financing his defence. If the tribunal does not allow its defence to be financed, Vojislav Seselj will not be able to carry out a defence proof procedure. He'll only be able to give the final word. Nikolic and Vukic tend to lie about two million euros, to give sufficient grounds to the tribunal to refuse the financing of the defence of Vojislav Seselj and to call on these claims that the indications that the SRS may now still possess money. The tycoon money was taken and taken by Vukic and Nikolic. I remind you that Nikolic announced that he received a certain amount of money from Miskovic and Bek during the election campaign. The SRS never got any money from the tycoon. Those were their personal arrangements. Nikolic and Vukic don't hide that they take money from the tycoon, they just don't want to know how much they take. Vukic, in an interview with the holiday number of one weekly, even criticized Miskovic because he gave Nikolic and Vukic less money than others. I quote, "It turns out that Miskovic gave us the least convincing campaign," Vucic complained. Vukic should know that the SRS did not, as he says, "traded in Toma's place", because Tomislav Nikolic was not born in the chair of the chairman of the Administrative Board, but belongs to the main opposition party. Nikolic and Vukic will hardly be able to defend themselves now that they are a serious opponent to the regime, especially now that they have received so much praise from the government's representatives. So, to quote this commendation: "that the party of Tomislav Nikolic has drawn closer in its stances to Boris Tadic". So, the government's representatives are obviously satisfied with the support they receive from Nikolic, Vukic and so on. Advanced parties. It is known that the SRS always has reliable information. Here's some information for Tomislav Nikolic, as well as for the public. Aleksandar Vukic plans to remove his political father, Tomislav Nikolic, who has been a threat to him since the beginning, and to take over the party. The wolf plans to do it by the end of the year. So, Toma will only be able to stay in the position of party president by the end of the year. The inventions of Nikolic and Vukic on alleged assassinations and on two million euros clearly illustrate that these two are becoming more nervous, as their political fall is unstoppable. That's why they act completely disoriented and hysterical. The SRS is demanding that a heavy indictment be made regarding twom euros of urgency by Boris Tadic, Minister Dacic, Prime Minister Cvetkovic. (President: Time. ) When it comes to crazy allegations of alleged assassinations, the SRS requires the MUP and BIA to declare whether the SRS and Vojislav Seselj are in any way involved in the planning of the alleged assassination of Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12133	Mrs. Jankovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12134	I'm just confused during a session like this. President, you started in excellent tone. Of course, after a long time, the people were waiting for this session, waiting for us to explain what was going on in their hearts and not just in their hearts and around them. If you've noticed, people are seriously depressed, on the verge of severe depression and with the conclusion that some coming disaster is something that's being prepared. What has made me particularly confused, how it is possible that some inadequate behaviors are constantly repeated in this highest legislative body. First of all, I refer to Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of this congregation, which implies respect for the dignity of the congregation. So, Mr. Canak, I'm sorry, he's never in the O.R. when it's my turn, we'll have to sort it out somehow, but I think the citizens of Serbia have had a chance to see how a man is dressed. He's already demonstrated several times that this congregation, like some tallest home, doesn't respect it, dresses like Demis Russos, God forgive me, tells me about some flames, fires, like a man just got out of a nudge, and, of course, from this pay phone for the third time he's been unpunished in violation of the Constitution. If a man is immune to hygiene, with a special view of being particularly immune to mental hygiene, since he is completely obsessed with the character and part of Dr Vojislav Kostunica, I am only interested in whether his parliamentary immunity is exclusive and allows for anti-constitutional behaviour. Last time he spoke in the Serbian Parliament about the constitution of Vojvodina. For all I know, we are in the body, and we are simply representatives of the people who voted the single Serbian Constitution, which also refers to the northern province. Now he was enjoying some kind of map of the Republic of Vojvodina, which isn't his first time. Is he really supposed to strip himself naked, which in itself would be enough cognitive shock, so that on his chest, for example, he shows the tattooed map of Vojvodina, so that one of us finds that his behavior is not quite normal, and that a man carries legal consequences or gets adequate health care. It is true what DSS counterpart Zeljko Tomic said, however, that the biggest responsibility for this kind of Canko's behaviour is with DSS, which is divided into this duchy DS and Belgrade's DS, which are constantly at each other's throats. Even before Christ, right before this Christmas, I was talking about shifts on the RTS Vojvodina and I didn't get an answer. Journalists of Serbian nationalities are not alike, they were fired, reportedly not speaking the Vojvodina accent, they were objected to speaking too Herzegovic. The shift of Director-General Dina Vranašević, who is similar because it is mixed with marriage, is obviously not at the will of Mr Pitiæ for her unknown reasons, but for reasons... (President: Time. ) the famous top of the duchy DS. What I am now interested in, does this mean that Mr. Pajtic is practically making a promotion for the President of the Republic of Vojvodina, whether this Vojvodina will have its position as Dennis Canak told us and whether it implies that he will soon have his own army and police.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12135	Mrs. Elena Christmas-Talian, for the fourth time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12136	Art. 225 and 226. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Serbs in northern Kosovo were exposed to terrible violence in early January. A Serb, Batu Djordjevic, was beaten by Albanians with bats, and KFOR soldiers watched peacefully and did not react. In the end, only one Kfora soldier approached to determine that he was alive, and then a Kosovo police patrol took him to the hospital. Boris Tadic and Kosovo and Metohija ministers estimate that EULEX does not protect Serbs. Boris Tadic, members of the UN Security Council and the UN secretary-general, staged a sharp protest informing them that EULEX, KFOR and Unmik, who otherwise no longer exists, did not respond in time and prevent attacks on Serbs. Minister Bogdanovic urged EULEX, Kfor and KPS to stop violence and voiced fear that violence against Serbs would spread. The SRS warned that Eulex's recognition must be rejected by anyone who is in the interest of protecting territorial integrity. We now see that Eulex not only has no intention of protecting Serbs, but their goal is to force Serbs to leave Kosovo and Metohija by violence and incidents. The question for the authorities is: what measures does the Serbian government plan to take, apart from this verbal protest and harsh statements, to prevent violence against Serbs and ensure peace and security? Secondly, the Albanian Chamber of Commerce announced it would help Kosovo block imports of goods from Serbia by providing enough food products for Kosovo's needs. It is obviously an internal interference and a violation of the economic sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. The question for the competent authorities is: why is there a lack of reaction from our Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic? Third, what will the authorities do when it comes to privatising social enterprises in Kosovo and Metohija? The issue also concerns the illegal privatisation of Serbian enterprises during the previous period and the announced privatisation this year. The Pristina-based list "Zeri" published a statement by Dina Hasanaj, which was presented as head of the Kosovo Privatisation Agency's board. He stressed that the mandate of the Kosovo Privatisation Agency is to privatise social enterprises throughout Kosovo's territory. Hasanaj pledged to start privatising social enterprises located in populated Serbs in Kosovo this year, which have so far avoided the process. Hasanaj also announced that the privatisation of the Bezovic winter centre will begin this year. The SRS parliamentary group is demanding information on the measures the Serbian government will apply when it comes to privatising Serbian social enterprises in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12137	Mr. Nenad Canak has a word, and then Judita Popovic, vice president.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12138	Ladies and gentlemen, I would no longer really like to report because I am constantly facing a huge amount of misunderstanding and ignorance of basic social norms, because we have now come into a position even to question the right to a different opinion. Whether or not I think Vojvodina should have a position like this or not, it's my personal right and with the Constitution guaranteed freedom. What is forbidden is the violent overthrow of the constitutional order, not its change in democratic ways. So the right to a different opinion is what must be defended, especially when you disagree with it and those who are now calling for that to begin in Slovenia, could imagine their words and imagine how much harm that can bring. I don't want to continue on this subject, because it's obvious that all my well-intentioned suggestions are being rejected against the wall of misunderstanding and ignorance. As for Mrs. MPs, who for the second time after this pay phone apostrophe has me as someone who's dressed inadequately, it's another thing I really don't think there's room for volunteer estimates whether someone's dressed or not. If there is a prescribed code, then it must be defined as a uniform, so MPs should dress in uniforms, about as school children. I don't mind. Until it is introduced, I will defend my right to dress as I will, and the lady has the right to, if she will, and she always does, dress like a woman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12139	The word has Mrs. Judita Popovic, please, and then Mr. Avramović, and Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12140	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the session we have so far in today's day can be reduced to three points. One point is Vojvodina, therefore, Vojvodina has become very current, the issue of Vojvodina. The second point is the famous oil-gas arrangement, and the third point is freedom of opinion. If we start at this first point, from Vojvodina, it's obvious that the moment is coming when we in this assembly are going to discuss the Statute of the Vojvodina. When we talk about an oil-gas deal, then we can only find out that it's only been a few days since Christmas Day on the Gregorian calendar, when that agreement was signed, and by Christmas on the Julian calendar, and in those few days, that famous energy security has fallen into the water. This energy security, first of all, fell into the water because the Ministry of Energy was not doing its job. We warned that a certain energy agreement with the Russian state was signed in 96 years, which was not realised after more than ten years. It has been insisted that a new agreement must be signed, it insisted that only NIS sales be signed, and that some other acts that do not have any legal power are simply signed for the other two parts of the famous roof agreement. We also warned that Banatski Dvor needs an investment of at least 200m euros. I would ask the Government, within the meaning of Rule 225 of this Rules of Procedure, to answer what did the Government mean when it signed only a memorandum for this Banatical Court? Did the government think that despite the lack of a firm contract, a foreign state would adhere to some obligations regarding the Banatski Dvor and invest 200m euros? Or did the government eventually think she was going to invest that money herself, and if she thought she was going to invest that money herself, where was that money planned in the budget? I didn't notice that. So, did the government know what he was doing? If the government didn't know, and that's a big problem, if the Ministry of Energy didn't know that, if the person who signed the contract didn't know that, it's a very big problem and it's a shame. If they knew about all this, and they still signed the NIS sale for that shameful price, then it's an even bigger problem. So I'm asking these questions... (President: Time. ) did they know that it is necessary to invest 200m euros in this Banatski Dvor, without which there is definitely no energy stability and we definitely have a big problem for the future of gas.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12141	Mr Milan Avramović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12142	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. Before I ask the question, I'd like to read a press release released by Tanjug. It is the humanitarian organisation "Serbian Out of Serbia", which is the donation of Serbs from Romania to Serbs from the municipality of Strpce. Tanjaga's announcement reads as follows: The humanitarian aid for children in Strpc to KIM, provided by the Alliance of Serbs in Romania, will be given to representatives of the municipality Monday, January 12th, at the Ministry of Diaspora, the ministry announced. Representatives of the municipality of Strpce, one of the most numerous Serbian environments in KIM, will be given 1,500 euros, 56 new-year packages, Tanjugu told the diaspora ministry. A press conference will be held in the ministry, at which the president of the Alliance of Serbs in Romania Slavomir Gvozdenovic and representatives of the municipality of Strpci, as well as State Secretary of the Ministry of Diaspora and KiM Miodrag Jaksic and Oliver Ivanovic will be held. My question is - who was in front of the municipality of Strpce today at the press conference. When we called the Ministry of Diaspora, we received information that it was Predrag Grbić. When we checked who Predrag Grbić is, it turned out to be the former director of some municipality in the municipality of Strpce and that it was the SPO staff, which is now the opposition committee member of the municipality via the DS parliamentary list. So, I ask Minister Srdjan Srekovic's question, on which basis he called on the opposition boardman, his party colleague, to represent the municipality of Strpce, who was also the director of the Shiptar government, i.e. in the past term when Stanko Jakovljevic, a member of the DS, led the municipality and today is being led as a representative of Unmikov in the municipality. On what basis do free and cheap political points arise on the torture of Kosovo and Metohija citizens when at least donations to this small value of Serbs outside Serbia were distributed? That is why the minister's position is being abused, which is why the minister abuses his ministry and invites people who are not legitimate representatives of the municipality to be called or represented in the capital, which directly means that the capital does not support Serbs of the municipality of Strpci, who are called parallel structures. So I ask the minister to answer: what criteria have they applied, why have they invited someone who is not a representative of a municipality to be and what are the reasons for this?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12143	The word is Mrs. Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12144	I was definitely more concerned about Mr. Chanka's exposure, because it's a very serious situation where one man has an experience of speaking pearls without anyone else understanding him. If he's speaking pearls and he's right, and seven million Serbs think something different, then it's really a matter of statistical probability what it's all about. It is possible that everything that says is a fantastic and advanced idea, but usually in practice it is perceived as prejudice, as an overrated idea, as an illusion or some kind of disturbed reality test. Of course, I advocate freedom of expression, of dress, and I don't mind someone wearing a chirocan on a head or a Hawaiian, it's totally irrelevant, the gentleman even looks cute in this shirt, like he's heating up on the North and on that "gas, gas," but there's definitely a dress protocol in the Assembly. No citizen can enter the Assembly as dressed as Mr. Canak. Therefore, if we are some kind of national representatives, then we are required to be ahead of ourselves and to be a model of how he behaves, for those citizens we represent somewhere and to respect them. Also, everyone has the right to give a public opinion, but the public opinion of one MP still does not have the weight of the free composition of a high school student. Mr. Canak also convicted Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic on the basis of him, established command responsibility for some crimes. Not to mention that Milosevic wanted to burn, he has these fixations with burning and hanging. Anyway, what he's saying is that there was a command responsibility here, and what I'm interested in is whether it's a projection mechanism, would Mr. Canak think a little bit about what kind of responsibility his publicly spoken word has.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12145	Does the proposaler's representative, Master Verica Kalanovic, Mrs. Minister for the NIP want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12146	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, we have a set of laws before us that will affect the implementation of the 2009 Budget Law. That is why this set of laws, together with the Budget Law, was submitted in December 2008. Finance Minister Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic, explaining the budget, explained the essence of each of the amendments and additions to these laws. Therefore, in the opening statement, I will not talk about what the basic objectives of amending and supplementing these laws are, but I think it is necessary to point out what is new in the draft of these laws. First, the proposal for a law supplementing the customs tariff law changes the time of entry into force. In Article 6. The bill defines that the law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger, instead of on 1 January 2009. The draft law amending and supplementing the property tax law gives a detailed explanation for retroactivity in the application of the law from 01.01.2009 on immovable property. In the draft law amending and supplementing the excise law, three amendments have been proposed. First on the change in excise duty on motor gasoline from 40.5 to 42 dinars per litre, then on the level of excise duty for cigarettes and cigarillos from the previous 10% of the retail price to 14.5 dinars per piece and the excise on coffee from the previous period was returned. So, the proposal to increase the excise on coffee has been put out of effect. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes provides for the suspension of the passport fee from the proposed 1,000 dinars. The proposal for a law on temporary exemption from taxation from the income tax of citizens of certain types of income is also a reason for retroactivity in application for 2008 and 2009. The draft law amending and supplementing the laws on pension and disability insurance lays down the basis for the payment of pensions for 2008 and 2009 as it was in the previous period, taking an average of the remuneration in the year in which the insurance company acquired pension rights for workers in the MUP. I would like to point out that this law, these amendments and additions to the law, applies for a period of one. 1. 2008 to 31. 12. In 2009, a law will be passed on to this assembly in 2009 to the adoption that will regulate this matter in more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12147	National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12148	Mrs. Komic, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, members of 225 and 226. I'm really impressed by Mrs. Secretary's exhaustive exposure. Now that you are in such a mood, Madam Minister, with all this information, I ask you, if you are not in a position right now, you will give it to me in written form, from Prime Minister Cvetkovic, about today's event in the car factory in Kragujevac, that is, the newly formed car factory and the start of testing of Kragujevnik workers, therefore, those similar and inadequate, who will find a catch in the newly formed factory, which we do not yet know, since we are not familiar with all the details of the contract as well as with the whole public, that it will work and whether the state, that is my particular question, to find the role of the employer or the strategic partner. On the eve of the campaign, for us Kragujevci and Serbian citizens, this was presented as a strategic partnership project with the Italian "Fiyat", which has now been found in the area of the automotive industry in the context of the global economic crisis and recession. As you could see, respected fellow MPs, much larger companies that have a widespread market, secure and all the plants around the planet, like Japan's Toyotas, as well as those from the General Motors Group, without talking about Folsquagen, and how concerned they are about their production. It's still under way, I think, for a few more days, the forced vacation of Italian 48 thousand employees at the company Fiat. You know, Markione's statement, director of the company, or president of the Fiat Group, that I am the Fiat must seek out his strategic partner. Now I'm interested, Mrs Kalanovic, on which the division of similar and non-matched to so-called. Blue and white collars? Can you imagine that irony? Em's people are expelled from work, and now they have to pass some rigorous test, which is not known whether or not they'll pass it, and who's going to make that list of similar ones, and what are the criteria, to at least know the workers, and the citizens of Kragujevac, and the members of their families. That - blue and white collars, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, refers to those who will work in the administration and those who will work in production. Go ahead, Mr. Jovanovic. I thought you were reacting something, I believe that you support this endeavor of mys to make this another pre-election scam, in the true sense of the word, expose to the end and see what the backdrop of that contract is and who will be able to hope for a better life in Kragujevac. I mean, as things stand, it won't be able to expect those more than 10,000 people who lost their jobs. It is obvious that the state, more than once mentioned here, and also Mr Ilic and other colleagues from other parliamentary groups, not only us from Serbian radicals, will have to invest for each worker at least 100,000 euros. How ready are we to do this, and is that the measure that the state will have in that famous contract, which we don't know what it is, to respect until the end, in order to secure a place for every worker? The government of Serbia owes us so much to give an answer. I expect and it would be better to, in accordance with what is in the contract, for which we do not know what its details are, and especially the working relationship of all these future employees, to deliver as soon as possible in writing. Thank you. I'm sorry I timed out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12149	Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word wants a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12150	As a representative of the government, it simply must be a clear question to me asked by Miss Jovanovic: what is it that the government should give in response to the National Assembly and the MPs. If it is a contract, I ask the MPs to read it from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development website. If it comes to the realisation of the contract, we will see that every two dinars invested by the Fiat will be invested by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If it is an investment structure, the contract also defines that the Republic of Serbia invests in infrastructure in the investment structure, which also includes infrastructure to raise citizens' standards, both Kragujevac citizens and employees of the flag, which implies raising infrastructure in the area of transport, in the area of energy, telecommunications, municipal infrastructure. In the case of testing of workers, the criteria envisaged are foreseen by the agency hired by the group "Fiat" and which have been done according to the test of workers who are otherwise employed in the "Fiat". I would ask that the question be absolutely accurate, because what's said in the previous address is a salad that involves strategic partners, starting from "Fiyate" to white and blue collars. I don't know what the government can give its answer on this, but I'm sure the Fiat Treaty has fully defined the answers to the possible questions of the MPs of this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12151	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12152	Mrs. Comic, I have a question to complete. So now I'm still going to address Prime Minister Mirk Cvetkovic, because it's obvious that the minister is inconclusive. Now that we've gone to this humiliated level of conversation and you've mentioned salad as a good housekeeper, then you should have, and obviously you're not, to figure out what's going on with the status of the worker and what's the deal, because if you'd listened to me very carefully, you'd see that I'm openly worried about investing and realising the contract. I asked if the contracting state of Serbia agreed in a strategic partnership with the Fiat on what number of workers, under what conditions? Now, since we left this aside earlier, I will ask a direct question -- does the government of the Republic of Serbia continue to argue that the strategic partnership, i.e. the investment of the "Fiat" in the flag, will be between 700m and 900m euros, given that the Kragujeva public is upset, as well as the employees and representatives of the Independent Union, because of the fact that it is now talking and speculating about the figures of everything, and that is hardly 200m euros, that the Fiat will invest? By having a statement by the president of the Fiat Group, the recently mentioned Mr. Markione, who said that the new car model at the Kragujeva factory Zast-Fiat will not be and that they are waiting and keeping the equipment for a better time, it is a direct statement by the head of the company "Fiat", and a better privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12153	Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) If not, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12154	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Kalanovic, I think you owe us a little more explanation. This is two minutes devoted to Parliament, which should discuss seven laws, speak either of the government's indifference to a serious debate on the proposed laws, or of the fact that you don't actually know what you'd tell us. In any case, and this is what is bad, parliament is informed not on the basis of dialogue, debate and discussion with government representatives, but by reading the government's ministers' interviews on the daily press. So today we learned what we didn't have the opportunity to hear in a two-week debate attended by the finance minister. We have learned practically that an increase in value added tax is being considered, which inevitably introduces us to a debate on budget rebalancing, sheds a completely different light on the situation we were in just two weeks ago and from the government, which constantly appeals to seriousness and seeks efficiency here in parliament, definitely imperatives a completely different relationship. We are having a debate on seven laws and each of these seven laws is absolutely in the function of realising the budget, which at the end of the year was a matter of all issues and problems ahead of each problem, which I think Parliament itself has shown by its own relationship to the debate, in which it was eventually voted. For us from the LDP, it is impossible to have a different relationship under these laws than it is with the budget itself. It is a small problem in some of the laws, I think the State Secretary Ilic knows what the laws are, which long ago had to come into effect, as part of that late package of government measures that are responding to the global financial crisis, which is being brought forward as an explanation of every law we are discussing, which, two or three months ago, when we wanted a serious debate, not with the aim of giving someone a lesson or someone we are tripping, but aware of the necessity of an agreement -- that crisis was interpreted as a great opportunity for us. I have to say that LDP is not a problem and that we will support the law that is part of that package that is voted on here and which is practically abolished tax on the transfer of absolute rights to securities of value. That's what we're gonna do, but what are we gonna do with all the other contradictions? You put us in a position to vote for the law, which you didn't say a word about, we enable and affirm the process of European integration in this country. Here I think of the laws which will change the country's customs policy and which will allow for the provisional application of the Transition Agreement, and in such a way, even on our part, unilaterally unblock the process of stabilisation and accession. Why don't you as a minister have a single word to tell us about one such gesture? First, before Serbia, the process of European integration, in the form in which we do so, has passed many other Eastern European countries. That criterion that we fail to skip is a criterion that all our neighbors have skipped. If yesterday's foreign minister tells us that the EU membership bid is the country's priority, then I think the government must secure a competent debate, at a time when we are very much investing in our European future, because the transitional agreement has a price. Right, Mr. Ilich? Of the 30 billion dinars, plus or minus, now depends on what extent, but it's supposed to be 30 billion dinars, how much poorer will our budget be, which is normally filled by charging customs duties on goods that will now be released from customs? It is assumed that this will affect the liberalisation of our market, that competition will affect price reduction, etc., but I think it is clear that the first effect of that decision is higher by 30 billion. If we don't have the strength to explain to people right now... Okay, is that funny? Okay, we could have said budget hole, budget minus, but on the side where you have expenses, right, now you have a $30 billion shortage? He's speaking to the minister. I think that, Madam Minister, we had to talk about it by you starting this debate, then we gave you the opportunity to tell you why it is useful for our society. This way when the government itself is silent, the decisions it makes, it is causing greater damage to the country's European future than those that have opposed European integration, because the European idea is being compromised. That's our common problem. So, we will support a law that has been decided, which was discussed in October and November, and now here we are in the middle of January. On the other hand, we will support a law that allows for a unilateral application of the trade agreement, i.e. the continuation of European integration, at least on our part. But how did the government prepare itself? What are these additional measures that will enable this country to have some benefits and benefits from such a decision? Yesterday we saw a minister, a resolute minister of trade, who gave an interview last year. It has been broadcast with two weeks of delay, which is obviously a rule of government itself, which announces for the end of the month a debate at the government itself on the Competition Protection Act, and only then, of course, by apostrophe of the Assembly's ineffectiveness, leads the country to a conclusion - that the benefits of this new law will be only when parliament is dignified and a debate on such a matter is launched. He had to be the law at this session. Unforgivable, because without that law, this measure doesn't make any sense. There's nothing from a free market without laws that regulate and make it possible. This way we will have a minus, a hole, a deficit of 30 billion, and on the other hand no one will be able to enter this country and if they decide to enter it, even if it goes astray, because there is no effective legislation that allows such a thing to happen. We need to talk about this now. We need to talk about this now, not January 30th, when we see that our planned income is 15, 25 or 30%, the possibility of being in charge on the other side more than being controversial, when they start to pay late for those who are promised. We don't have a problem with employees in this country today because they have no understanding of the difficult financial situation, but because your government promised them something a month ago, when we said, don't do it. A month after that, she said -- we don't care, because even when it was signed, it knew there was no money to make a collective contract. And this collective contract is the result of the amended Labour Act, which is again the result of the political game of the then parliamentary majority, which paid the cost of survival in power of a month or two, without considering the consequences of our decisions that we are now suffering. You didn't say anything about pensions. The key question is, there's nothing to say about pensions. The government's regulation has now been translated into law. Am I right? In one member, but he's a member of the law. The 10% increase, in a situation where the euro is 95 dinars, now has a completely different weight. Now we need to think about the price we pay for something like that. How long will this country tolerate past mistakes because it's the cost of survival in power? Why don't you ask the other majority for one reasonable policy? Which of the countries in our environment has established wage and pension relations set up by this government, destroying both the future and pensioners and employees? Where is the salary ratio - pensions at the level at which this law is established, 70% of the average pension salary? Since there's a collective obsession with Russia -- there's 30% in Russia. Then how are we going to be competitive, in a situation where there are so many burdens, in such a narrow space that today takes up our efficient economy? As far as we're going to go over the fact that those who have completed a full-time job have pensions that are above the criteria mentioned here, that we actually have a problem with the fact that the pension here has become a social category, so that people who have lost their jobs by spending years on temporary vacations, under the stress of labour, say the vice president of the Kragujevac Assembly, are retired? Now they're asking for their lives from that pension, even though the pension fund has its maximum. We were for a completely different policy. That's why we can't support this request of yours, not because we don't think pensioners should get their pensions, but because we think there's got to be a lot more order. This basically means that it can't increase pensions for everyone, but for those who are the most endangered, since it's long since it's stopped being a policy that stems from the fact that there's a man's willingness to invest in his future. That's the case with pensions, that's the case with health insurance, because we need to discuss that law, but you don't say a word about it, but that's why you're here explaining how it's common for Kragujevac workers to be tested, because that's the standard of "Fiita." How do you think your government would go about conducting a test according to European Commission standards? How would the directors of the public enterprises you appointed, who teach us here, pass the tests that must be passed by the directors of EU state companies or "Gasproma"? I don't think this passion is going to do us any good, and when we face the crisis, then it won't matter who's there from the LDP, who's from the G17 and who's the non-party person in the government anymore. A few days ago, the government organised a meeting and talks with union representatives, with representatives of large capital, with entrepreneurs, all found themselves in one place, talked for two hours and left. They agreed that the crisis was severe, everyone had a request, and here we are three or four days after that encounter without any visible results. If we are to discuss now the laws that need to enable the realisation of the budget that we opened the door at the end of the year, then you first need to answer us - did the government make a budget rebalancing or not? You need to answer us - is there an increase in VAT in government or not? Not because we know these answers as MPs, but because this is the only way to communicate with society. Because if it calculated now that there would be a possible increase in the rate of tax, then now it opens the door for calculations that everyone, and those who trade, and those who produce, and those who work, so you'll already have that 20% in each man's head, even though you may not think about it. And even if you think about it, then say - at what point will it take effect and under what conditions - that people can accept something like that in advance. Serbia's biggest problem is not the fact that we have to tighten the belt, but the fact that the belt is in the wrong place. The belt is put around these people's necks, not dogs, and that's the problem, and it takes too long. Never in the Serbian parliament, in which I was eight years old, was a more cooperative opposition on large political issues. This is not because the opposition is fascinated by the government's quality, but because the opposition is aware of the circumstances in which the country is located. Use that fact. When you combine the debate on seven laws in five hours and when you talk about those seven laws for two minutes, what do you think the effects will be in our society that needs to understand what we're discussing right now? Who's gonna pay for those pensions? Well, people who work in this country. Who's going to pay those taxes and excise taxes you're increasing? People who work in this country. We cannot support the change of taxis and excises, because it is directly contrary to the law we are also discussing. On the one hand, we cut taxes, and on the other hand we increase taxes along with taxes and excise taxes. What's the name of this policy? We have two doors here. One tax lower, one tax higher. One tax is abolished, you mentioned some, for passports, but that's why we're introducing excises. What were the interests of the government, you had to explain to us, to give up the excise on coffee? What are those interests? We need something to explain to us, because tomorrow those with increased excise duties will say that they are victims of a lobby that had the strength to protect their interest and that they are now paying excise taxes for themselves and for them. They'll have every right to say something like that, because you haven't given us any explanation. What's the difference in your policy? What is the excuse, the explanation of such an attitude? Maybe we'd support it, but if on one side you cut the tax, then you have to be consistent. There's no tax on the transfer of absolute rights, but that's why there are bigger excises here. The pension-based burden, the 30 billion-dollar burden due to the implementation of the interim trade agreement, but there is no new competition law that would allow foreign capital to enter here and solve the monopoly problem that we have and whose solution would practically be the relativeised pressure that we are exposed to because of a unilaterally applied agreement. It's called the absence of politics, and the price for the absence of such a policy is always paid by citizens. Since we take care of citizens and do not distinguish between citizens who voted for us and citizens who voted for other parties, at this point we tell you that you have not left us room to support you. I don't know if it matters to you or not, it was important to you two weeks ago and think about it in seven days, in two weeks or in a month. What we're talking about right now, the way we talk, it doesn't convince us, and it's a minor problem with us, but it doesn't convince citizens, that your government knows what it wants and what direction it wants to lead this country. We need to talk about this together. A law that is reduced to politics and the law that the ruling coalition pays the price of its survival is not a law that LDP can vote for and it has nothing to do with our relationship with pensioners, because if there is no money, there is no money, they can count on our respect and respect. Finally, we don't know of any pensioner who doesn't assume his own happiness to his children or his grandchildren. What the government is doing now is destroying this country's future because of the way it works. We are for a completely different measure that would allow pensions to be increased to those pensioners who are most threatened, and to those pensioners who do not provide satisfaction through the fact that they, in the way that each of us in this country does, are sacrificed by investing in its future. They've already done it once, when they were working most, and our misfortune is because of the fact that we have to ask them again, but better so than that, than that we all live in the ruins of the world that they created, to leave it to us in a better condition. The Prime Minister's absence has been a huge regret. These are a couple of excellencies of the laws she's in charge of. If it is personally prevented, we have for such an understanding, but then it must show for such an understanding the government itself through the presence of a vice president in charge of the area or through the presence of the Prime Minister himself, because this is a continuation of the debate on a package of laws that will allow the implementation of the budget. The absence of the government's willingness to have such a responsible relationship banishes the subject itself and makes us very dissatisfied, and you should think about it now, because sooner or later the price that the LDP, but your ineffectiveness, will be so great that even we won't be able to pay it, on behalf of citizens who can't be victims of such a policy. So, not a word about the application of a temporary trade agreement that represents a continuation of European integration, which is very bad, we support that law, but we remind you that you have not provided all those accompanying laws that would make this step logical and rational. This will be more than uncertain, and many will have the right to criticise you for the fact that you give up 30 billion, without getting anything in return, taking into account, first of all, the truth that we are a country that is doing such a thing for the first time, given that the process of European integration is a process in which there is, on the one hand, a willingness to transform the community, and on the other hand the EU's willingness to finance such a transformation, because it is pointless to begin the process of change in order to disappear in them. That's why we're worried about the effects of this law. We do not vote in favour of a law which, practically, gives pensioners what they do not already exist, and therefore, the whole society further threatens, and we have no understanding of the increase in excise duties, since it is clear, on the one hand, that the government is cutting taxes, and on the other hand, increasing excise duties and thus retains the same relationship that is unacceptable to us, the relationship of a state that is very expensive, and nothing effectively offers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12155	I'm setting a break to 15.35 and informing the National Assembly... The Minister wants to give an answer. I'm withdrawing the beginning of the sentence "I'm setting a break" to allow the minister to give an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12156	Dear People's MPs, just so we don't take a break with something that isn't fixed on the bill. A week of discussion in the National Assembly on the whole package, the 2009 Budget Law and the fiscal policy laws. Also discussed was the Customs Tariff Act, with a detailed explanation of the effects this law will have on both the positive and the negative; in a positive way towards European integration, in a negatively reduced income, in a reduced revenue side of the budget. With today, nothing has changed in relation to Mr Cvetkovic's opening exposé and the explanation of Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic, and when it comes to the Budget Law and the laws we are discussing today. I wanted to start by saying what was changed in the last ten days by these laws, something completely justified, given that the time of entry of the law had changed, since the MPs on these laws had not declared themselves in 2008. Some laws have purely technical changes, because they have not been in force since 1 January, as scheduled, but eight days since the day of publication in the Official Messenger. As for the change in excise duties, I want to say that there has been an increase in excise duty on fuel, and there has been a reduction in the excise duty on coffee because the savings that would result from the increase in excise duty from 30% to 40%, when it comes to coffee excises, are less than the effects that will be achieved in the use of this product of the broadest mass. Taking into account that it is an import product and that due to the increase in the price of the course, an increase in the price of coffee can be expected, in order to protect, as much as possible, the standard and pleasure of the largest number of citizens in Serbia, the government has given up revenues that would be achieved at the expense of the increase in excise duties. That's the only reason I can't accept anyone else as someone who's implicated in this pay phone. When it comes to the pension law, the pension law will come for consideration in 2009 and I thank Mr Jovanovic most warmly for all possible comments and suggestions that have arisen from this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12157	I'm setting a break and we'll start work in 15.40 minutes. I am also informing the National Assembly that today, on the basis of Article 85 paragraph 5, we will work after 18:00 hours, and the afternoon part of the session begins with the debate of representatives of the parliamentary groups by the application of MP Zoran Kasalovic, the MP of the People's Parliament of Lidija Dimitrijevic, and the MPs of Jorvanka Tabaković, Elvira Kovac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12158	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. The word is Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12159	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure because I am deeply convinced that a member of 104 has been injured. The dignity of the assembly has been violated, at least that's how I feel myself. In fact, I am afraid that this congregation has begun to abuse Article 85 completely in its practice. The Rules of Procedure, in which it is declared that the Assembly works from Tuesday to Thursday and that the working hours of the Assembly are from 10.00 to 18:00 hours. I can understand, and here all the MPs understood, today is Monday, let's work on Mondays, let's work on Fridays. I can also understand that it's after 6:00 p.m. anyway, we all understood that because 10 days before New Year's, when we were standing-pans for budget deadlines, we worked 10 days to 22:00-23.00 hours, it's all fine and understandable. But it is not understandable, at least I don't understand that today, on the first day of the extraordinary session we have to work after 1800 hours, this team before today, I'm sorry, two hours unnecessarily lost 200 MPs here from 10.00 to 12.00 hours, because the ruling majority did not have 126 people in the O.R., which is the real reason why the session began. So I ask you that we can probably not finish the debate today in principle, as long as we work, so I ask you to work normally, at some normal working time, and then we can, in principle, finish the debate tomorrow, and then the day after tomorrow, we can go to the amendments, after the break provided for by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12160	Mrs. Komic, Vice-President of the Assembly, has already extended the work before your suggestion. At a decent time, we'll break up. You know that when we finish the debate in principle, it takes 24 hours for the amendments to start the session, so I think for some traditional reasons it fits all of our plans to do it a little longer today, and tomorrow to take a break, and 14 January to start at 1200 hours. We have to work, we really have to work. Excuse me, just a moment, the reason for the emergency meeting is from the fact that these financial laws are completely complementary to the Budget Law, and we all agreed, first of all, to the members of your parliamentary group, Mr Shami, they've said a lot in public, for a great reason, that only the adoption of the budget, without these laws, is actually not done. I completely agree with you. Here you go, Mr. Markicevic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12161	Dear Presidents, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, Mr. Minister, who are Orthodox believers, I am particularly pleased to say that, and I want to ask you, by article 225 and 226, that, have we heard well, all of us Serbs of Orthodox faith, that you intend to schedule the Parliament's work on January 14th, at the Serbian New Year, at Holy Vasili? Do you insult all citizens who want to celebrate that day, as we celebrate almost a century and never give up that date? Is that an insult you said about all Serbs of Orthodox faith? Please think about it carefully. We will work, as for New Serbia and Saturday all night, and Sunday, as we have done, but please, on January 14th, this holy house does not work and that we honor all Serbs of Orthodox faith.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12162	The word is from Mr Zoran Kasalovic, representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12163	Dear Presidents, honourable Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia is an expression of the policy that the Government of Serbia intends to implement during 2009, and at this point, an attempt to find the best possible response of our country to the negative consequences of the current global financial crisis, and whose effects for the time being are still completely unclear and unpredictable for our economy and economy, according to estimates, are yet to be expected in the first quarter of this year. The SPS-JS MPs supported the government's proposal for the 2009 budget, because we believe that the government of the Republic of Serbia has made a maximum effort to make savings at all appraisals and levels where possible, as well as to pay employees financed from the budget and public spending to a rational extent, that in the given conditions, there is enough social and fair balance on the budget, that through the potential of large capital projects, such as corridor 10, it wants to help develop economy and create several thousand new jobs, it leaves the government's regulation on a one-time increase in pensions of 10% and ensures the start of a uniform application of the Transition Agreement with the EU and thus fully and clearly expresses its commitment to progress towards the ultimate objective - full membership of the Republic of Serbia in the EU. Of course, in the course of the principle debate on the 2009 budget, most of the MPs in their discussions on the effectiveness of the objectives of the budget and its implementation in the course of 2009, were also watching through the need for the adoption of a set of laws that are in the principle of discussion today, namely the draft law on amendments to the Customs Tariff Act, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Assets, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, the Proposal for a Law on the temporary exemption from the taxation of income tax on citizens from certain types of income and draft laws on amendments and amendments to the law on contributions to compulsory social security and pension-inhabitation. It is clear that the adoption of this set of laws provides for adequate charging, i.e. budget revenue, and creates assumptions that the above-mentioned policy objectives of the Serbian government are being implemented through the 2009 budget. Therefore, the SPS-JS parliamentary club will in principle support the proposed set of laws. What do they foresee, the shortest, and enable their solutions? The proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act is closely linked to the launch of a unilateral application of the Transitional Trade Agreement and proposes solutions relating to the beginning of the application of the rate of customs duty, in accordance with the transitional trade agreement on trade and trade between the European Community and the Republic of Serbia and is specified in Article 1 that imports of goods originating in countries with which the Republic of Serbia has concluded free trade agreements apply the customs rates provided for in that Agreement. In addition, quite realistically, for example, it is proposed to reduce the rate of customs duty from 15% to 5% so far for mobile and fixed phones, whose production, practically, does not exist in our country, and for passenger cars from 20% to 12.5%, with the aim of reaching a level of 10% in 2009 of car imports from the EU, in line with the reduction dynamics foreseen by the Transition Agreement on Trade and Trade Issues between the European Community and the Republic of Serbia. As a result, the budget also planned a reduced revenue of around 27% in 2009 compared to 2008. The proposal for a law on temporary exemption from taxation on the income tax of citizens of certain types of income aims to create conditions for the mitigation of the effects of the global financial crisis on the Republic of Serbia, primarily through solutions provided for in Article 1 and where it is proposed to temporarily exempt from taxation of income tax on citizens based on interest on foreign, savings and other stakes of citizens, capital gains on the basis of turnover, with the remuneration of the paper of value and interest in the property of legal persons, and for the period from the date of entry into force of this law until 31 December 2009. I believe that this is a good proposal for a solution, that it should be supported and that it makes only one segment of the comprehensive response of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the negative effects of the coming crisis in the domain of the functioning of the banking sector, the foreign exchange market and the capital markets. Also, the proposal for this law proposes to preserve a continuity of tax policy since 2004, exemption from taxation of income from agriculture and forestry on cadastrian income for 2008 and 2009, which is certainly good and will be safe, in the context of the coming crisis, certain redundancies of agricultural producers and the possibility of perhaps new investments in production. In the same context is also the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on property taxes, whose proposals for solutions go in the direction of encouraging the development of the capital market, which is why it is proposed to exempt the transfer, with the remuneration of the securities from the value and interest in the legal person, from the subject of taxation of the tax on the transfer of absolute rights, and also proposes the same treatment for transfer without compensation, hence inheritance and gift, exemption from tax on inheritance and gift. In addition to this basic objective, I would say the point of this law, a number of very good provisions have been proposed to specify certain concepts and solutions in this law, and I would like to set out the original jurisdiction of local self-government to determine the property tax, to abolish the tax credit for an apartment in which the obligor does not live, which should increase the income to municipal budgets, and tax exemption to property rights, which are exclusively recorded for further sale in the corporate books of the obligor. Proposals for a law amending and supplementing the law on contributions to compulsory social security and pension disability are, above all, laws enabling the implementation of the Government's emergency pension increase Regulation. I believe that this regulation has made a lot of contributions to mitigate the effects of this crisis on pensioners. Finally, but not according to its importance in this set of laws, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises, whose proposals for certain solutions should, above all, contribute to the better revenue of the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget and in some way replace a certain loss of revenue for 2009, as a result of the launch of a unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement and, as I said above all, the fall of income, for example, on the basis of customs duties of 27.7%. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, i.e. the proposed solutions, are heading towards the regulation of the Republic's administrative fees for the files and actions of the Republic authorities which were in the jurisdiction of the SCG community, such as, for example, consular fees and other charges, and change in the level of the tax liability for individual files and actions for the purpose of harmonisation, since it is too much about the files and actions which were in the jurisdiction of the SCG and for which the tax has not been harmonised since 2001. It is certainly necessary and necessary to do so, thus providing for a certain additional revenue based on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia. Also, with this law, I think it's a good solution, trying to perfect one of the payment obligations, for example. by electronic means, and also delete provisions on the possibility of paying an administrative fee to tax marks. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, above all, it should be said that the 2009 budget envisions an increase in excise revenue of 14.2% compared to the expected revenue in 2008. In that sense, and respecting the proposal to change excise policy, in terms of increasing excise duties, primarily on oil derivatives, so Article 3 is foreseen for all types of motor gasoline from 27.5 dinars to 42.5 dinars, for diesel fuel from 16.66 to 26, liquid oil gas, for beer from nine dinars per litre to 15 dinars per litre, also for cigarettes from imports and cigarettes produced in the country, an increase in the specific excise rate. Accises or excise duties are popular specific taxes in the tax administration on the consumption of specific products because they are simple and provide the country with safe and stable revenues. Excise-based objectives can be to destimulate certain consumption, e.g. to alcohol and tobacco, and it is possible that one of these goals and wants to achieve, redistribution of income by taxing luxury products or covering public costs, e.g. Health costs. It is indisputable that by establishing the excise structure on cigarettes by 2012, all market participants are guaranteed stability, but the change of the existing system of taxation by excise duty, in terms of increasing the specific excise duty and reducing the proportionate rate of excise duty, is activated in the full sense of the so-called so-called. the regressive effect of the excise duty, which is why they are not popular with the taxpayer, except for all other taxes, because the excise products are relatively more taxed than the product of the same type with higher prices. Of course, as cheaper products, in this case cigarettes, logically use wider categories of consumers, i.e. residents, with weaker tax and economic power, this in this case carries a relatively higher burden of taxation. I would like to say to this occasion that the SPS has submitted certain amendments, above all in the sense that this effect would be mitigated, in order for this burden of increase to be relatively shifted to an economically stronger consumer population that consumes more expensive cigarettes, which is quite realistic, and we also believe that this law is necessary, we have proposed these changes in Article. 18 and19, significantly higher amounts, and taking into account the effects mentioned above, regulate the calculation and payment of the specific fee for the budget fund to implement preventive programmes for the prevention of diseases associated with the consumption of tobacco products, and otherwise established by the tobacco law. Although the current destination income, this special fee, it can be said, is by its nature an excise on all parameters and therefore I think it is quite pragmatic to find its place in the Excise Act and here we have proposed a new chapter and a new article 24a. But we will discuss this in more detail in detail and the SPS-JS Parliament Club, following the support of this set of laws in principle, will try to make its contribution in order to adopt the best solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12164	Thank you, Mr. Kasalovich. The word is Mr. Radojko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12165	Thank you, Madam President. The government has informed us that there are several government officials for this point and I ask them to give us important information that is important to us so that we can analyse these laws in principle. The Act on Excises, the Law on Administrative Taxes also significantly increases excise duties and various forms of administrative fees from all areas of life, and from agriculture, and from the economy and regional development, there is Mr Dulic, various taxes related to both the building permit and the use of the permit and all these elements. In any of these laws, there is no analysis of the financial effects of these laws. How much this will affect the revenue of the budget, and how much other effects it will have on the citizens of Serbia and how much it will affect and, if you will, the opening of new jobs. Because if you put a significant burden on the various taxes and burdens of each procedure, then it will certainly affect the number of new jobs being slightly smaller or significantly smaller than is foreseen. I ask the Government's representative to provide us with the exact information on how much revenue is expected to increase in the budget and to analyse the application of these laws, since neither of these laws has been delivered.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12166	The word is Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12167	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us today the draft laws necessary for the implementation of the budget for this year and should be adopted at the same time as the budget. At the last session in December, they were on the agenda. The debate on them was united with the budget debate, and due to the importance of the budget on these bill proposals very little was said. Due to the lack of time on the amendments to these laws, it was not possible to vote on them either. Now on all these laws, there are seven of them, running a common principle search. Some of these draft laws should enable the budget to be filled, and these are: the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, while others are the cause of a reduction in revenue from the budget, which is the proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, which allows for the unilateral application of the Transitional Trade Agreement. As for the proposal for a law on temporary exemption from taxation on the income of citizens of certain types of income, the government said it adopted it at its session on 27 November 2008 under a package of measures to mitigate the effects of the global economic crisis. Also, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act proposed the exemption of the securities from the value and interest in the legal person from the inheritance tax and the gift tax and by the transfer of absolute rights tax. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance provides for the creation of conditions for regulating the obligations of payment of health insurance contributions to insurance undertakings provided for in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The draft law supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act proposed that the amount of pension should not be changed in 2009. When we talked about the 2009 draft budget law, Serbian radicals repeatedly pointed to a walk that would bring a unilateral application of the Transitional Trade Agreement with the EU, as the Republic of Serbia has thus denied significant revenues from customs on imports of goods from EU countries. Because the Serbian government voluntarily gave up these revenues in favour of EU producers, it had to replace them in another way and the only way left is to increase excise duties and taxis. This puts Serbian businessmen in a very unfavourable position, as well as all other Serbian citizens. The first of the draft laws, which are under joint review today, is on the amendments to the Customs Tariff Act. As a reason for the adoption of this law, the Proposer said it would speed up the European integration processes and allow the implementation of the Transitional Agreement on Trade and Trade Issues between the European Community, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other. Thus, the proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act proposes that the import of goods originating in countries with which the Republic of Serbia has concluded free trade agreements be subject to the rates of customs duties provided for in those agreements. It is further proposed that if the Transitional Agreement on Trade and Trade Affairs between the European Community, of the one part, and the Republic of Serbia, of the other part, does not enter into force until the date of entry into force of this law on imports of goods originating in the European Community, the rates of customs duties shall be determined in accordance with the dynamics of the reduction in the rate of customs duties provided for in the Law confirming the Transitional Agreement on Trade and Trade Matters between the European Community, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other hand. It is clear to all of us that until the day of entry into force of this law, the Transitional Agreement will not enter into force. At a time when the Assembly confirmed the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Transitional Trade Agreement, the SRS pointed to the inequality of foreign signatories, i.e. that the Serbian side is in a subordinate position to the other side, the states of signatories which are EU member states, and the highlight of the humiliation is the refusal to implement the agreement by EU member states, because the Netherlands did not accept this agreement, and its application requires consensus. This only proves the EU's blackmailing attitude towards Serbia and clearly showing that there is no intention of treating us as equal partners, but that they want to benefit from us economically. All of this is packaged through the story of gaining candidate status through EU membership. We can't blame them for everything, because it's the fault of our government, which, above all, has decided to unilaterally apply the agreement and harm the citizens of its country. In the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on property taxes, the Proposer states as a reason for the adoption of the law that securities of value and shares of the legal person are to be excluded from the subject of inheritance tax and gift tax and by way of a tax on the transfer of absolute rights. However, what is unfavourable is that this bill also provides for the abolition of the tax credit for an apartment where the obligor does not live, which was prescribed at a rate of 10% for a member of the family of the debtors and each member of his family household who lives in the obligor's apartment and up to 30% of the established tax. In this way, the right to tax credit will be maintained only in the case of an apartment in which the obligor is resident, and for the rest the tax will be paid without a reduction for the tax credit. I would also like to point out that the SRS has proposed to its amendments that the tax on the transfer of other absolute rights be 1.5%. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Republic of Administrative Taxes shall bring into line the subject-matter of a tax liability with the files and actions in the jurisdiction of the authorities for which the work is paid by the Republic's administrative tax. This is about files and actions which were in the jurisdiction of the SCG State Community authority, for which a fee was paid in accordance with the Federal Administrative Tax Act. The amount of these taxis hasn't been changed since 2001, and otherwise they should have been adjusted annually. Now the level of the tax liability will change, so the increase of certain taxis in terms of the economic crisis will be an expense that will burden both businessmen and all other citizens. For example, the fee for applying for interpretations, explanations, or opinions on the application of republican regulations will now be 1,000 dinars, while earlier it was 870 dinars. Just one more example. The complaint to the tax authority would be 300 dinars, and earlier it was 170 dinars. As regards the proposal for a law on temporary exemption from taxation on the income tax of citizens of certain types of income, it proposes a temporary exemption from the taxation of income tax on citizens, interest-based income on foreign exchange savings and other deposits of citizens, capital gains on the basis of transfer revenue on the basis of the value of the paper and interest in the property of legal persons and income from agriculture and forestry on catastrian income. It is foreseen that the measure, taken to mitigate the effects of the global economic crisis, is applicable from the date of entry into force of this law until 31 December 2009. The MPs of the SRS believe that this measure should be applied by the end of 2010, as the negative effects of the crisis will be manifested both in this and next year. Accordingly, we have submitted amendments to which we have proposed this solution, because we believe it is in the interest of the Serbian citizens. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance should point out that it is proposed to create conditions for the application of the provisions of the Health Insurance Act and the regulation of the obligation to pay a contribution to compulsory health insurance for 2009 for natural persons, insurance undertakings for which the funds are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. For these users, the funds are provided in the 2009 budget and it should be pointed out that they are natural persons, which are in the category of socially endangered population, which do not meet the conditions for obtaining the characteristics of insurance companies on a second basis. When the ruling majority adopts the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and adopts it because it has 126 MPs to vote for it, most beneficiaries of the pension and disability insurance law will find themselves in big troubles. It proposed that the amount of pension, the minimum amount of pension, the amount of cash compensation and the amount of the total points be kept at the level achieved, or not to be changed in 2009. In 2008, these amounts were increased by 10% by an emergency pension increase Regulation, and in addition, they were regularly harmonised. This is all pensioners could count on, because in 2009, there will be no regular harmonisations, but they will receive the same amount of pension they are now receiving throughout the year. Thus, many pensioners will feel the consequences of the economic financial crisis. Pre-election promises that pensions would be high, that they would be 70% of the average profit, were only a way to get votes from those in a difficult position and enter the government. And then it was known that it was impossible and unreal. Then the promises, of course, were forgotten. An extraordinary 10% increase does not mean much to those whose pension is 8,000 or 9,000 dinars. They got an increase of 800 to 900 dinars a month, but this increase meant one number of pensioners whose pensions are over 54,000 dinars. Then pensioners who live with 8,000, 9,000 or 10,000 dinars per month realized that their votes and how abused they are, and only now that pensions are frozen for the entire 2009 period, pensioners understand how humiliated they are by the authorities and that this government, led by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, is not at all socially responsible. The economic crisis has long begun to collect taxes in Serbia. Daily drop in value of dinars, layoffs of workers, price of groceries, medicines. The recent collection of medicines will be hit greatly by pensioners, as it is a population that is mostly in need of medication daily. Most of them are people who, during their working days, have exhausted, grown old, are sick, and live off that modest amount of retirement. They are not rare pensioners in Serbia who support their entire families, whose pension is the only source of income, because their children can't get a job, so they don't usually have grandparents schooling their grandchildren. The SRS believes such a bill will bring a lot of damage to pensioners, who have been living too hard for years. One socially responsible government would in no case have adopted and sent to the Assembly for adoption, especially if many of its representatives only seven or eight months ago in the pre-election campaign had so much to say about the better lives of pensioners and much larger pensions. The voices of the pensioners came to them because the pensioners believed them because they hoped it would be achieved. Such a bill only confirms that pensioners who cast their votes to those with false promises are the most harshly deceived and put in a position to fear for their existence. All I have to do is remind the public of some statements from October last year. On 17 October, the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister in charge of social policy announced an increase in pensions to 65% in mid-2009 and at the end of the year the amount of pensions will be 70% of the average income in Serbia. It seems that the vice president soon forgot what he promised the pensioners, those who live with 150 to 300 dinars a day, and forgot his promises to deal with the issues of disabled pensioners, especially those who retired because of injuries at work. Not only will pensions not reach the level promised, because at the moment it is not possible, but they will now be frozen and there will be no regular harmonisation, so pensioners will feel the consequences of the economic crisis on their skin. In addition to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, another unpopular for Serbian citizens is the unfavourable bill in this set. It proposes increasing excise duties on oil derivatives, tobacco processing and beer. Because of Serbia's decision to unilaterally implement the Transition Trade Agreement and thus run out of significant revenues, it had to be found a way to replace these revenues. The decision was made to do so by increasing the amount of excise duties, and in the current conditions of the economic crisis, it is a major blow for both businessmen and citizens of Serbia. The bill provides for an increase in excise duty on oil derivatives, and that is to say, on motor gasoline from the current 35.91 dinar per litre to 42 dinar per litre. I must point out that the original proposal suggested that that amount be 40.50 dinars. But in the meantime, when we talk about this law today, that amount is 42 dinars per litre. On diesel fuel from 19.10 dinars per litre per 26 dinars per litre and liquid oil gas from 11.01 dinar per kilogram to 13 dinar per kilogram. The increase in excise duty affects the increase in retail prices. Compared to the countries around us, VAT-free procedures are much higher than they are. When we look at the structure of the December price of gasoline in Serbia, we will see that the excise cost is 44% of the retail price. I note that, in addition to this increase in excise duties, we can already be expected another increase in regular excise duty in February in line with inflation growth. The increase in excise duty on cigarettes is estimated at 11 dinars per package in 2009, 16 dinars in 2010, 20 dinars in 2011, and 24 dinars from 1 January 2012. In addition, another 35% excise rate will be paid instead of the current 33%. An excise on beer will amount to 15 dinars per litre instead of 9 dinars per litre. Initially, the bill proposed an increase in the excise duty on coffee. Then came the minister of commerce and services and coffee producers. They said an increase in excise duties would condition an increase in the retail price of coffee, which would be the basis for coffee smuggling from surrounding countries where coffee is cheaper. The proposal to increase the excise duties has been withdrawn. Does this withdrawal have anything to do with these reactions? To conclude, the increase in excise duties will result in new purchases of oil derivatives, tobacco processing and beer in Serbia. Serbian citizens can thank their government for that, which has decided on this because it has to replace a reduction in customs revenues that loses by unilateral application of the harmful Transition Trade Agreement with the EU. The gatherings in the current conditions of the economic crisis do not require citizens of Serbia at all. However, according to the Finance Minister's announcements, Mrs Dragutinovic does not rule out the possibility of increasing value added tax during this year, from 18% to 20.5% -- the collection will and how it will be. In the end, I would just ask the government a question, and it only applies to Article 24. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act. Article 24 says: "After Article 40j. add... (President: Time. I'm sorry, I'll finish right now... Chapter 12b is added. and a member of the 40s. which reads. Chapter 12b: "Transport of excise products with Autonomous Region of KiM", and Article 40e: "The government will regulate the enforcement of this law in the territory of AP KIM during the entry into force of Security Council Resolution OUN No. 1244." My question is -- how? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12168	Thank you. The word is from Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, representative of the Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12169	On behalf of the parliamentary club "Forward Serbia", the Serbian Progressive Party, I can tell you that a set of seven laws that were accompanied by the budget, adopted at the end of last year, can be summed up with one feature, in one sentence -- that the state still prefers rich people. Because what the set of these seven laws characterized in terms of a change in the proposal since 8 December, when the first draft of the law arrived to us by 31 December, when the government in the extortion withdrew a set of laws and returned them to the Assembly for decision, there was a change that was very important to the government's attitude towards the budget, to the citizens as consumers, and it speaks a lot of things about itself as the government that cares about the rich most. How did it happen, I ask the government and the absent finance minister, who can't get commendation on these laws, that the proposal to increase coffee excises from 30% to 40% in the meantime? I must inform the citizens that I simply had an infidelity when I read in the press on January 5th that the government is giving up the proposal, and it is not irrelevant, on Mr Dinkic's proposal, it announced "Pres" on January 5th, and it was accepted by the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister and the President of the State, with an explanation that this increase in excise duties will significantly affect the home budget. Dear citizens of Serbia and fellow MPs, according to the coffee producer, the chairman of the Management Board, Droga Kolinska, whose composition is "Grand Coffee", Mr. Slobodan Vukicevic, was given the information that the change of excise duty from 30% to 40% would lead to the purchase of coffee per kilogram of 12 to 14 dinars. Serbia spends 34 thousand tonnes of coffee annually. Average per capita consumption ranges from 4.2 to 4.5kg of coffee. The average Serbian family spends a kilo of coffee a month, and these families have 2,700,000. I'm talking about credible data that's completely official. This means that under impact on the home budget, 12 to 14 dinars of higher cost per kilogram of coffee per month are meant. What does the government say about itself, which thus explains the loss of 5.5m euros in the budget, and at the value of 85 dinars for the euro, how much did it calculate when returning its loans in the budget? Does the Government of the Republic of Serbia have the right, its finance minister, you who defend this today, represent that the budget reduces the revenue of 5.5m euros, with an explanation that citizens will be hit by a home budget of 12 to 14 dinars per month? Now it's not such a terrible insolence to deceive the public and what you've done to the MPs from 8 to 31, changing the bill. The question is, who came up with the proposal to increase the excise? Who's threatening coffee manufacturers to have problems? Who kept them convinced that their product would collect? Who and whose address has given up such a proposal and who will thank whom for what means that there will be no 5.5m euros in the budget? That's the basic question I want the citizens to hear, and I'm asking the government -- whose interests are you handling? Are the important taxpayers, consumers who regularly fill the budget, or are the important coffee producers, which have two, the largest in the country, Grand Coffee and Donkafa, one of which is an Israeli-Switzerland company. Her CEO very honestly in 2007, when we reduced the excise on coffee here in July, Mr. Arik Gilboa says that the major political and economic risks he deals with, as manager of Donkafa, as well as the sudden changes in the price of raw coffee on the stock market, change in course and economically unwarranted taxes, are the risks they count on. But, he says, if the company manages to build a brand and trust of partners and consumers, then you will share the risk with them and will not leave you in critical situations. If one big coffee producer is counting on that risk and doesn't care what that price will do to make his product more expensive, which, by the way, in three years' time cost 200 percent, in inflation of only 45%, why do you care so much about them? Does this process sum up all the stories about the government that exists on greed, commission and conflict of interest? This isn't one episode, this is the principle of business that needs to worry us all seriously. Because if Mr. Vučićevic in 2007, when we cut those same 10% excise duties on coffee, he says no one should expect a pot of coffee, because that's only 2% in the price of coffee that's going to be on the shelf, why is it when it has to come back, now that 2% large, to take care of coffee manufacturers, and that's "Drog Kolinska" and "Donkafe"? How many people are employed in the production of coffee? What kind of strategic production is it to gain such meaning, that this government is not ashamed to change the bill of excise duty and come out with this inappropriate protection of one production? Why does the state even have to go with an increase in excise duties? Because they're sending us another inappropriate and inadmissible message the moment we're in. We want to enter the EU in a way that no country has entered. This authenticity and uniqueness are proved by a unilateral, premature application of the Transition Agreement. What in some subsequent agreement, an arrangement of any kind, political, commercial, can this country have as a concession in a negotiating position, if you offer what none of us are asking for? Is it worth the message - we want so much in Europe that this budget should be denied by 24 billion dinars, according to your statements, or 250m euros, which is why you are entering new tax costs, the change in the tax system, which is, you are entering new costs of collecting and calculating taxes. Another message, that we do not have a minimum of economic, political and national dignity, wishing to enter the EU's integrated processes. This led us to go with an increase in excise duties not on alcohol, why you didn't go for alcohol, and he as a coffee has the treatment of luxury, you go only to increase the excise duty for beer and to increase the excise duty for cigarettes, which is acceptable for health reasons and treatment of such goods as luxury. Have you considered how much a blow to the home budget when 10 dinars per pack of cigarettes have been accumulated by every tobacco industry product, when one smoker who only smokes a pack of cigarettes a day for 30 days has a cost of 300 dinars. What's 12 dinars for coffee to 300 dinars in a smoker's house, where he smokes, for example. Just one member of the family? The story of thinking about the consumer is totally unacceptable. The measurement of this excise means that those who smoke, those who drink alcohol, cannot easily deprive them of their habits and will not give up on them regardless of price increases. That's why you're going to this awful tax. But you know perfectly well, and the coffee producers you're going to have on hand, and the tobacco producers who are reportedly rebelling, that the experience from BiH is saying that the consumption of these products is falling, which are rising prices due to the increase in excise duties. The desire to protect producers is not at the same time a desire to protect Serbia's economy when we go for unilateral application. Because when we say -- we protect the economy -- we protect very specific people who work in some factories, their families, their wages, their purchasing power. You in these bill proposals don't have any data quantified, as much as this means new revenue, how much this means new burden. There's even, I'm sorry for the expression, a crazy explanation, where you apologize to the MPs for making these changes in the assembly a law. Like, you tried to change that in some other way, so you can't, but that's the law that needs to change these provisions. It's amazing that this team, probably in the government, does make these tax laws, doesn't have much like those who did the budget. They've done it to this extent boldly, not explaining with any figure what it means for the budget, for consumers and for the specific industries, that the only possible answer to these laws of yours means that it must be voted against against them. What do the other proposals mean? You are going with the proposal for a law on temporary exemption from taxation on the income tax of citizens of certain types of income, so in 2009 savings will be excluded, which must be welcomed, because this country must develop on savings, not on loans and not on money emissions. However, from whom do you expect seriousness and analysts, from us, from MPs, if you have not said by any number how much the budget will be reduced by that amount of tax, or do you keep that information for your round tables, for meetings with some foreign investors? This home and these people here don't deserve, not to convince us, to explain with one number how much it's worth. Something I have to notice, and it's not petty, when you say you're going to release your savings tax, you're not talking about paying attention to the amount of interest offered on savings. This is the moment, while in the fight for savings some offer extremely high savings interest, which will buy credits for this and this economy. And when we ask ourselves -- why someone installs such a expensive loan into a product that they offer on this market, which is not competitive to those who come from Europe, you will remember that I warned you that this release must also be selective. We need to start by stimulating real interest and rid ourselves of the tax: yes, savings, yes, cadastrian income from 2008 and 2009, but think about whether or not it is necessary to stimulate the trade in securities from the moment the whole world realizes that paper trading does not mean that anything can be created. We as a state have to be very serious about what's called production, not to tell us today when you're offering a customs tariff, we're reducing interest on those products that don't normally come from us. Yes, much is no longer produced by us, because liberalization, lack of credit support, has destroyed a large part of domestic production, and you are now boasting that you are allowing the import of combined and tractors in assemblies, so that the mounted here can be, like, easier to sell. You go out with a customs tariff where taxes on cars are reduced from imports, new and old, from 20%, not to those promised ten as Dinkic spoke, but to 12.5%. Do you really believe that there are a large number of those who will run to buy cars or those who need to buy for existential needs, which are food, medicines, fuel, heating and transport, providing themselves with a salary? How expensive are these products and how much do they participate in the costs of each family individually? It's the state's business. That's the government's concern, not to go out with the customs tariff, where you really say by that story, Maria Antoinette, the people don't have bread, and she says, "Give him cake." I think this is very much about the irresponsibility of you who are going out with these solutions and that a set of seven laws following the budget is talking about the fact that the government is really at the last minute, in an internal coalition disagreement, coming up again with one of Dinkic's genius ideas, which Luis Heren, the BAT director, speaks of...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12170	Please, I'm not really able to follow what the MP says anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12171	... who is in the explanation says that excise duties that will increase on cigarettes can mean a big problem for them, because although in one part they mean business predictability, they still have certain problems. Because, argues Mr. Hearn, it's not my statement -- "there are indications that after the adoption of the law on free-distribution state action, they will force us to buy actions, these actions, at prices significantly above market prices. Such a thing would have serious consequences for foreign investment in Serbia. We are ready to pay the market price, not the price defined by the state. ''The trade in which the state takes its own excise duties and forces the owners of the tobacco industry to buy the shares of those companies, that the story of free actions would not be just a story, as well as many genius moves so far will be reduced to the burden of citizens only as consumption in which the state, which cannot measure the power of the taxpayers spend much more, going to destroy the substance of production and the taxpayers themselves. To conclude, this country loves rich people more than citizens, rather than its taxpayers, and it cares more about them getting gratitude than filling their tax dollars. That's why we're not voting for these laws. During this presentation, the MPs of the SRS banged into the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12172	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12173	Dear Mr. Minister, Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, MPs of the SVM and Parliament Club of Minority will, of course, vote in the voting day for these proposed laws. They fully support them. Of course, before I explain, I must express my personal great regret that simply the National Assembly failed to adopt these so-called so-called until the end of the regular autumn session. The following financial laws with the budget, but that is why I urge all of you to now, when we are in an emergency session, as soon as we adopt these laws on the agenda. For the sake of the public, I would like to sum up in a few sentences which are actually the draft laws in front of us, which are amendments and additions to certain laws and why their adoption is so important and urgent. We heard here today it's about seven draft laws. It is precisely about the amendments to the Customs Tariff Act, the temporary exemption from taxation on the income tax of citizens of certain types of income, amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, property taxes, contributions to compulsory social security, excise duties and the Republic's administrative fees. First of all, I'd like to talk to you about the amendments to the Customs Tariff Act. It was important to specify that imports of goods originating in countries with which our country has concluded free trade agreements are subject to the customs rates provided for in these agreements. The additions to this said Customs Tariff Act will allow the creation of an integrated tariff covering customs rates prescribed by the already existing Customs Tariff Act, as well as new rates applicable under the Free Trade Agreement. In order to speed up the processes of European integration, which SVM advocates and facilitates the easy application by our country of the Transitional Agreement on Trade between the European Community and the Republic of Serbia was the necessary addition of the Customs Tariff Act. This law, as we have heard, provides for a reduction of customs rates by about 95% of the goods coming from the European Union, for a part of the products that are not produced in our country at all, will be completely abolished by this law. The application of the Transition Trade Agreement means that customs revenues for our country will be reduced, we have heard here how much this hole will represent in the budget itself, but I must stress why we will still vote for this law, since the application of this agreement itself is of great benefit to the citizens and the economy of Serbia. It is precisely because of these reductions in customs duties that many products and re-promaterials, raw materials and a list of imported products with lower customs duties will, of course, be cheaper automatically, thanks to this, have a lower price. The next law is a law on temporary exemption from taxation on the income tax of citizens of certain types of products. It is needed to create conditions to mitigate the impact so much used and mentioned global financial and economic crisis on our economic and financial market. The basic content of this law and the aim it aims to achieve is to stimulate foreign savings, contribute to improving the functioning of the foreign and capital markets themselves. It proposes to exempt from taxation of income tax on citizens' incomes made on the basis of interest on foreign exchange, savings and other deposits, as well as income from capital gains on the basis of turnover, with a fee from securities of value and interest in the property of legal persons and income from agriculture and forestry on cadastrian income. The party to which I belong, the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, welcomes, which, with this proposed exemption from taxation of income from agriculture and forestry on catastrian income for 2008 and 2009, would in fact extend the period of exemption from taxation of this type of income, which otherwise takes place from 2004 to 2007, and thus would actually ensure continuity, i.e. the continuation of so far-called legal solutions that have taken place to improve the situation of farmers, i.e. the tax incentive for the development of a very significant activity in Vojvodina, agriculture. It is necessary, taking into account the circumstances of the global financial and economic crisis, and the impact of all this on the public finances system in our country, to make the necessary changes in the said Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. In fact, it is necessary to remove an unequal position, i.e. to bring into the same situation those insurance companies who have acquired pension rights before 1 January 2008 or before 31 December 2007 and those who have not acquired pension rights until the end of that period. We all know that pensions last year increased by 10%, however, given that ensuring the achievement of those rights, if the harmonisation of these pensions would be carried out under the current provisions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, simply, according to the budget adopted at the end of last year, could not be realistically financed by the regular harmonisation of pensions this year. Therefore, it was simply necessary, or necessary, to find an adequate solution to address this lack of funds. So, according to this proposal, pensions, unfortunately of our pensioners, will simply not be coordinated in this year 2009, and they must be frozen for now, or remain at that level at which they are located. The next proposed law is the draft law on changes and additions to the property tax, and it must be adopted to encourage the development of the capital market. In this proposal for a law, it is proposed to exempt charters from values and shares in the legal person from taxation by tax on the transfer of absolute rights. This fiscal discharge would, of course, help reduce costs. One of the biggest reasons for the adoption of the next law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance is to actually create conditions for the application of the provisions of the Health Insurance Act and the regulation of the obligation to pay contributions for compulsory health insurance, for certain categories of persons, of course, this mainly refers to insurance undertakings for which the funds are provided on the basis of that contribution in the said budget of the Republic of Serbia which we adopted at the end of last year. This budget law for this year 2009 sets out the allocation of funds for these purposes through the approval of the resolution ministry, and the adoption of this law is necessary in order to implement this particular budget. The following, repeatedly mentioned Excise Act here, must also be amended and complemented due to the further gradual harmonisation of our country's excise policy with the regulations and standards of the European Union, the reduction of the appearance of the grey economy in the transport of excise products mentioned, cigarettes, oil derivatives, etc. and securing the inflow of excise assets into the Republic budget, we mentioned in fact which is a hole due to the reduction of customs duties and this lack of government plans to cover by increasing excise duties. So, the amendments and additions to the Excise Act are proposed to amend the existing system of taxation of cigarettes by excise duty, for, on the one hand, and to continue to bring the standards of the European Union, of course this will increase the revenues from excise duties on cigarettes, and on the other hand protect our domestic market from cheaper cigarettes and cigarettes of poorer quality. It is proposed, as I mentioned, and the increase in excise duties on oil derivatives, as well as on the repeatedly mentioned excises on beer. The increase in these actions is simply necessary, at least because of the lack of customs revenue, which is important and what we support. So, the Union of Duchy Hungarians simply realizes how much customs revenue will be reduced, and that is so useful because of the simple demonstration of goodwill for our further approximation of the European Union. Finally, it is high time to prescribe republican administrative fees for the writings and actions of the republican authorities that were once in the jurisdiction of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Since the last amendments and additions to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, which have actually been applied since mid-2005, measures and activities in the process of internal economic reforms have resulted in a large number of new documents and regulations in which certain actions are carried out, i.e. the necessary payment of these administrative fees. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians particularly welcomes and supports that a certain tax exemption will be brought for certain documents concerning social care for children, social security and, of course, we also support and welcome the release of travel documents to free the payment of the Republic's administrative fee. It is true that the tariff proposed in relation to the current level of taxis is changing amounts to individual files and shops, some fees are increasing, but some are also reducing. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the MPs of the Alliance of Duke Hungarians and the Manjin Parliament Club will support this so-called voting day. Financial, or budgetary accompanying laws, since we support the government and we believe that our country should arrive on the White Schengen list this year and get candidate status for accession to the European Union as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12174	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. The word has a representative of the DSS parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12175	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, today we have a set of laws on budget filling for 2009, but we have been talking in fact for the last three months about the effects of the financial crisis on our country, talking about budget rebalancing and the draft budget in December that we had here on the agenda. What we said three months ago, two months ago, what we said about the budget, we just can and we have to do it again today. So, after the crisis broke out, when we had already faced the crisis being evident and revealed in the world, and when we realized that we would have concrete consequences with us, the DSS Parliament Club was heading towards a solution or trying to solve certain economic and economic segments, in terms of the proposed laws, as the best intention for the government, which we see at that first moment, so at the end of September and early October, it was not very good to deal with or, if you will, it was not quite the right way to understand this global financial and economic crisis and the consequences of our economy and behavior of the country. So, we will start from the end of October and early November, when, as a parliamentary group of DSS, we came up with several proposals from the economics law, which came across a reluctant stance of the government, such as the famous deposit insurance law, which at that famous session of the Finance Committee in early October was characterised as an unnecessary law, that savings stakes in our country were absolutely protected and that what we proposed was a measure to protect our savings and savings roles in the function of spreading panic among citizens. We confronted ourselves that after three months we had that law here in the procedure, that we voted on that law. What's the issue now? They've been slow for three months. So, it's not good when the government doesn't want to accept the proposals that are coming, in this case, from the opposition party - the DSS, just because it's the opposition party, even had a negative attitude towards the proposal, to eventually face that after three months we're going through a very violent, painful debate on the issue, and we're finally adopting it all. The DSS has proposed several laws, the deposit insurance law I have already mentioned, and we have also proposed amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax and the Proposed Law amending the Law on the National Bank and the bill. We suggested it to go by emergency procedure. In our opinion, it was the right time, making the timing to respond to that first blow of the financial crisis that has affected our country as well. The congregation majority decided not to put it on the agenda. Today, among other things, we have a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. I'll notice again that it was done with three months late. So, it's not good when the government is three months late with certain measures, and she was warned or familiar with proposals coming from opposition parties, in this case specifically from the DSS. We also proposed three months ago to adopt a decision on the education of the Commission to monitor the global economic crisis and take measures to mitigate the negative impact on the economy and on the economy of the Republic of Serbia. At that time, some ministers, who are very prominent in the sphere of economy and finance, were told by the type that this is a chance for Serbia, that the global financial crisis will not even touch Serbia, that this is exactly the right opportunity for China, India and Serbia, and that, as I said, it is the chance Serbia should take. After three months, we face the prime minister, including some ministers, calling for a kind of unity in this House, because time is hard because the economic crisis has knocked on our door. It's not a dispute. With our concrete proposal, which we put on paper, which this parliament was to vote, we have made it clear to the assembly majority that we are willing to participate in responding to the challenges posed by the financial and economic crisis. The government turned that down. Now the prime minister and ministers covering financial and economic portfolios are asking this parliament to co-operate. It's not a question of co-operation and now it is. When a time of temptation like this comes, where no one can predict exactly the depth of this crisis, we are at our disposal, but under one condition -- we need to see and hear the government's proposal, which is the proposal, what is the government's strategy when we talk about getting out of this financial and economic crisis. Is that this set of laws? We're not going to say that there's nothing wrong here, but this certainly isn't the right and appropriate answer to what's happening in our economy and economy, especially not the answer to what's going to happen in the economy and in the economy this year. The government decided in October to unilaterally implement the Transition Trade Agreement as of January 1st. There were controversys. There were government ministers, I think there was a finance minister, who was extremely rational, as a woman responsible for the budget, who took the view that at this point further liberalisation of our market is not desirable and that unilateral application of the trade agreement will have an impact on further liberalisation of our market and adverse effects on domestic economy. Then it turned out that what is the additional weakness of this government, which is that there are also political groups in which there is no general and general interest, including in the sphere of economy and finance, firstly, satisfaction and, let me say, filling their registers within its ministries, then the government turned its stance and supported that decision and we are now facing a unilateral application of the trade agreement. So, at the beginning, we have an estimate that the deficit in the budget, which we will have on this basis, ranges from 250m to 350m euros. I really don't know who you can convince that the Serbian economy and the Serbian economy are so strong that they can afford the luxury of allowing themselves, in terms of EU economies, to take away their incomes from 250m to 350m euros. Healthy economic logic has suggested that tones should work, but here is a second argument - that in 2009 we will get candidate status, that we will therefore be able to use some pre-accession funds and thus compensate for this deficit. If we start with the promises made by this government only seven or eight months ago in the pre-election campaign and when we see the realization of those promises, which is a zero, then we rightly suspect that in 2009, this optimism is not supported by any financial and economic indicators. In fact, we alone will have the damages of abolishing, that is, the unilateral application of this trade agreement. I ask the question here and the competent minister who is with us today, is there any example that the country that wanted to join the EU has entered into the process of unilaterally applying any agreement towards the EU? I don't think it exists, I got confirmation that it doesn't exist. So, we are the exception and some citizens know that we are entering the EU alone, i.e. we are very far from the EU and from the EU bid itself, but in this year, citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be damaged from 250m to 350m euros on the basis of abolished customs duties. Since this deficit in the budget exists, but it is not only this lack of problem, but the budget projection itself presented here is also problematic and we talked about it when Minister Dragutinović was, therefore, the budget was unrealized, that the budget is unsustainable and we will give it very quickly, and I said in fact the last three months we have talked about the rebalancing and the budget, and we will probably have a break in the next two months when we talk about some other laws, such as the Law on the Assembly and I don't know what else, very quickly on this budget agenda for 2009. That's what I'm telling you now. We'll see if that's the way it's gonna be. I think it will be, and God damn it will be even more painful for the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is a minor problem, but it will be much more painful for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Since we gave up customs in the Transition Trade Agreement, that money should somehow be replaced. We have the Excise Act, which is the only function of trying to replace this lack of financial resources by now increasing excise duties on many products. What's particularly problematic is a huge increase in excise fuel, from 27 to 42 dinars. The government of the Republic of Serbia has the possibility, in accordance with the regulation, to increase excise duties over the course of one year in accordance with the inflation rate. Why isn't that done now, then, based on this base we have? The government could increase this year in line with the inflation and excise rate, but it decided to increase excise duties from 27 to 42 dinars per litre, thus increasing the base, retaining this right to further increase such a large excise rate in line with the inflation rate. That's what happens when this law comes into effect, and that's about 15 days from now, I guess we'll have more expensive fuel. I don't need to tell citizens, it's clear to everyone what more expensive fuel means and what the consequences of the economy are, because fuel is one of the most important instructions for all economic activities. So by increasing the excise duty, it's trying to replace the deficit that we have on the basis of the tariffs reduced by the agreement that we unilaterally applied. That's certainly not good, because when you set this thing up and we face it, and now the government has acknowledged it with the economic financial crisis, then the burden of this financial and economic crisis should be evenly divided. This burden is divided exclusively into those groups that are already socially endangered and the burden is borne by the economy and that part of the economy that was not in a great situation or before the financial crisis broke out. So, the government, on the one hand, is calling for unity, and we say, we are willing to use our ideas, our proposals, and we have proved that in the past three months, we repeat not to the government, but to the citizens of Serbia, that these ideas that we have are able to break into law and government is whether it wants to accept it. We're not saying that we have a deed in the DSS to get out of this crisis. She's unpredictable. We have very many good ideas and concrete things that we have proposed. Why does the government go deaf about these ideas, why they don't accept and why, when they propose such disastrous proposals, when administrative fees increase, when they increase, as we said, and excises, the government actually allows themselves, will remain unclear. So we'll, I'm pretty sure, talk about budget rebalancing in the next two or three months. The revised memorandum stressed that there will simply be a reduction in economic activity and a reduction in foreign investment, a reduction in consumption and a reduction in imports, despite all these parameters which are already quite evident from the downturn. This budget was designed to plan an 11.4% tax hike. It's just impossible to accomplish. The burden of such a reduced budget and these laws, since we have before us and the Law on PIO, is that pensioners will actually have a pension of less than eight percent this year, if the projected inflation of eight percent is real, at least eight percent, and that he will actually have a pre-election promise that was made not to be fulfilled, but rather, the burden of these problems that we have with the charge and the revenue side of the budget will, above all, be brought down to pensioners. I fear that when there is a rebalancing that additional pressure will be made on pensioners and there will be further cuts in pensions, because if the budget is not achieved by the dynamics that are foreseen, it must go to cutting public spending. These bill proposals, this set of laws, which, above all, is in the function of charging or achieving the revenue side of the budget, once again shows that the government does not have a consistent and clear picture of what will happen in our economy, economy, finance in 2009. These proposals are largely contradictory and contradictory to each other. They are, above all, directed to bear the burden of any endangered economy, especially agriculture, because additional liberalisation, by abolishing customs duties on almost 40% of agricultural products that will take effect by the degree of this law, will not speed up agricultural production, but also by further liberalisation and what is looming and what is very difficult to do further burdens us, because we will now have imports from the side. And certainly, the agricultural products that come from the EU, which are subsidized several times more than our own, have a more favourable price, that we will certainly have more imports on this issue, and hence the greater external trade deficit, and that we will endanger our agriculture. Among other things, when I talk about agriculture, it is okay to increase excise duties on tobacco, it is justice to European standards. It is not right to abolish subsidies without any notice to farmers. Over 11,000 agricultural producers are involved in tobacco farming. We deprived them of the subsidy they were counting on with one move, that is, with the draft budget. Only this measure will cause about 30,000 people to no longer deal with it, and it depends on tobacco production. Who's doing this for? It's an import lobby. We don't promote our domestic production... (President: Time. Because if tobacco, I finish, is not grown to a sufficient extent, and every year it won't, then the tobacco industry, first of all, will introduce tobacco, because it has for this product placed. The DSS MPs will also try to correct the bill's proposals in this principle debate, but what's definitely our message is that the sooner you have to face reality and not act and not succumb to Noah's head syndrome in the sand, the more realistic the dangers that come from the global financial crisis. The DSS intends to continue to be very active in the legislative sense of economic laws. It's up to you not to be late, the way you've been doing it for the past three months, not to be late for the next three... (President: You want to bring an end. ..and months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12176	The word is Mr. Petar Jojic, advertising the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12177	Madam President, representatives of the Government, I am asking a question and I am asking for answers and an explanation in terms of the provisions of Articles 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, with the emphasis that a large group of Azotara workers is pleased that the contract was terminated by the Agency with those who bought the Panchea Pansacks. Turns out we were right when we asked these questions in the congregation on several occasions. The Privatisation Agency is faced with a problem itself, which itself has caused major problems for the workers of Azotara Pancevo, who remained on the street for about 1,500 years, because the production of nitrogen fertilizer, and the only factories in Serbia, for a year, does not work, workers do not receive salaries for months and months. So, the Privatisation Agency finally realized it was necessary to break the contract with buyers from Lithuania and Belgrade. A factory with an accounting value of 45m euros has been stolen. Workers don't take wages. I ask the question and ask the Prime Minister and the Government for an answer: what measures will the Government take to get this factory into operation, into production, and the workers get their salaries to earn and earn what it is, because the Panchean Azotara is part of that city. The city was built thanks to Pancheva Azotari, which was erected and released in 1963. So, as the only nitrogen fertiliser factory in Serbia, it must be in the function of agricultural producers, to produce artificial fertilizer, to be cheaper than those who import, to resell and raise prices as they like it. The SRS supports the Azotara workers and asks the Government of the Republic to overcome this problem and help workers, and that this factory is in production because it will be of strategic importance for individual agricultural producers, especially in the Republic of Serbia. That's why I'm asking the answers because more workers asked me a question, because I'm coming from Panchev, and they're asking to help that factory, to help these workers, to get that factory out of the crisis. The workers are not guilty, they are only guilty of finding themselves in the situation in which they are, thanks to the Government or the Privatisation Agency, who, under unfavourable conditions, sold this factory to tycoons and people who had no intention of paying what they bought. That's why I'm asking, because from here too, the budget was to be filled, 32 million, noting for who knows which time, the Carbamid 2 factory was robbed. It's been unmounted and sold abroad, but the state and the workers haven't seen the yellow banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12178	Mr. Dusan Maric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12179	Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of Articles 225 and 226, I request a notice from the Ministry of Finance on the level of profit made by the CEO of the company, the Novosad Fair. In the last five years. Small shareholders in this company claim that in the last two years the directors have paid themselves millions in bonuses and incentives. Aleksandar Andrejevic, the recent director general, paid himself in 2007 for the bonus and the stimulation of two million and 600,000 dinars, salaries plus two thousand and 700 euros a month, in 2008, two million and 500 thousand dinars, a total of 5 million and 100 000. Dusan Manojlovic, deputy director general, in 2007 three million dinars of awards, in 2008, another three million, a total of six million, at a monthly amount of 3,100 euros per month. Miroslava Lazic, financial director, last year's million and 800,000, last year's million and 700 thousand. Bojan Gajic, the commercial director, was awarded last year with only 860,000 dinars, which is barely 1,000 euros per month on salary, and in last year 830,000 dinars. Zoran Stankovic, development director, one million last year and one million last year, two pockets in each one million. Marietta Lazor, marketing director, 2007 420 thousand, 2008 580,000. Gordana Isakov, director of the legal sector, passed the year 720,000, last year 680,000 dinars, a total of millions and 400,000 dinars. Now I'm forced to compare with that director at the Flight Control Agency, who in a month makes a million and 400,000 dinars, so compared to him, this isn't much of a profit. Zivka Jankovic, project manager, in 2007 650,000 dinars, last year 670,000 dinars. Radojka Babic, executive director, preceded the year 750, also 750,000 last year, a total of 300,000 euros in bonuses and stimuli fees. This is really amazing, as if millions of people were growing up on Frusch Mountain. In a country where 500,000 live below the poverty line, in which the government constantly complains about unemployment, in which it prays for the poor to get used to hunger, that same government allows its directors, their party staff, to share each other's money prizes that go beyond millions of dollars per month, small shareholders claim that in the last three years in the company, the Novosad Fair pays to ordinary workers are not increased by a single dinar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12180	The word is made by the president of the New Serbia parliamentary group, Mr Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12181	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, I thought this year we'd be doing better, more responsible and more seriously, that a little bit of government will get serious, that the coalition that is in power will simply realize that it's a serious job to run the country and that millions of people depend on that government, depending on various decisions, but unfortunately here's the first day of work in the new year is my big disappointment. We see everything going the way it was, and worse than it was last year. You saw those stories this morning, those cards, all that, and today we have a set of laws on the agenda that we were supposed to adopt last year, but it's for the first month of this year. We expected to start a serious debate today, because the story of customs, taxes, pensions, budgeting, the way to fill the budget is a very important story for this country. Today, however, we received a letter from the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, showing one extreme indifference. It is good for everyone, but on such serious laws, primarily of financial nature, he authorised Mrs Kalanovic to represent the government and Minister Dulic. The man is the Minister of Spatial Planning, what he's going to do here, on these serious issues that have nothing to do with the ministries whose ministers are present in the O.R. today. This all shows one extraordinary indifference between Mr. Cvetkovic and his government. To make the insecure even bigger, the other day we had a meeting that led instead of the prime minister of the state. With business heads of state discussing roads, railways, investments, corridors, extinguishing concessions, is some advice as the government's working body. I don't think there's anything in the world, just us. So today I see one proposal in the paper to reduce the number of MPs, to make it cheap for the state. Please, you know how our people say "for the priest and the cattle are baptizing," so here's our leaders remembered to recommend something. The other day, I was listening to a minister who gave a serious statement about energy savings and said we weren't putting hot soup in the fridge, but to cool it down, so we could put it in the fridge. At my age, I've never seen anyone in my family, and maybe wider, wherever I go, put hot soup in the fridge. Maybe it was modern with the minister, actual. Then we looked at the second minister who went out in these holiday days with the energy savings project and said, "In my office, there's no light to burn, just marking lights when it's a day off." Careful, the economy minister comes out with a savings programme, he runs the entire state economy and he talks about five lamps that shouldn't be burned, and that's his contribution to saving. This is all a sad story, and I'm very sorry to have to talk about this. I repeat, I have not heard anyone say that we have an expensive state, a very expensive state, a large number of ministers, a large number of ministries. Do you believe, when I was Minister of Capital Investments, my entire cabinet had four officials, my ministry was now divided into five ministries. When I read recently that Krkobic has 41 employees, it is to cross a man. We're talking about saving. As tax bonds now propose to excise, tax, the collection of VAT, to pay such an expensive state. I'd like to see who's gonna keep those people warm, feed them, eat them, give them cars, give them drivers. Why will 41 employees be in the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister of Krkobiæ? What they're doing out there, I'm really interested. He's never here. What's the situation in the other cabinets? I'm very sorry that Mrs. Kalanovic left. She developed the entire infrastructure of some regional offices. I was recently in Triestenik and they say we're building a regional office. Wherever you go, the regional office for NIP, the regional office for balanced regional development. We're not little Djokice that we don't know that the parties are building, on the budget, with huge salaries of the entire party's infrastructure, which is true, and thousands of employees. How is it possible for Dinkic to increase the salary budget three times, and only six officials were admitted to the economy ministry and even regional development? They developed a whole network of parties, like those people's offices used to be, you remember, by means of budgets. Thousands of people do. Do you realize that companies, like the Stara Planina Public Enterprise, lost 80 million last year with two employees? How is that possible? What were those two employees doing? How many skiers used that ski center? Please, there's no more wasting time, increasing the fine to those who work a little bit in Serbia, and they're going to choke on these big burdens if we collect VAT and if we go to these gatherings. I'm listening to Kalanovićka today, she says -- she's going to pick up the gas excises, and to comfort us, she says, we're going to cut them down to coffee. You know the ratio of excise on fuel and excise on coffee? You know that NIS fills the budget via excise and VAT with 20%, and coffee may be involved in something minor 0.2%. Please, what does that look like? This is all extremely unserious. We are now trying to fill the budget based on new fines, simply destroying those who are doing something. The budget really needs to be filled from Bor, Majdanpek, by the electronic industry, by Jumko, by Simpa, by Magnochroma, by Viskoza, by the flag. I'm very sorry to hear you talk all the time - we'll free the Italians of everything and everything. They bring all imports, only 5% is the participation of Serbian products in the vehicle, and we take the obligation to sell 300,000 cars on the Russian market. Are we a normal world? Who else in their right mind can accept that as a commitment and still pay them about 300 million euros in total? We rot "Fiat" on the extremity we want to work out. They shut down the factory in their country, and now we've found that we're going in to get the Fiat out of the dubiosis. So don't think, gentlemen, that we don't know how to push millions of dollars into private banks. Mr. Dinkic knows that well. Now let me remind you. The roads don't pay for years. The debts are enormously high. The VAT has to pay to raise the loan and they pay. Why are they on the payroll? Because the Directorate for Roads as a budgetary user has been translated into a public enterprise by the Roads of Serbia, under the obligation of the Minister of Finance then to cover debts in a month or two from privatisation, which has not been done so far. What's going on now? Travellers are paid by cesiums. What does that mean? That bankers take 20% on each account because the bank overrides, they bring confidence that the government owes them, of course they get a loan from the bank and they spill 18-20%, Mr. Last name, and it lasts four years. VAT was not paid for toll, and for this it was paid for all works in the travel industry. This has led to a dubiosis of the company, and to this day these debts will not be due. It's true that 10.2 billion were transferred from the Directorate, but that serves to transfer money shovels to private banks, and that's true. These same banks hold government deposits. What interest are they holding on to? Two percent, and they place us at 18-20 percent. It's a great business for our tycoons, which we've declared saints here, and we're going to talk about them, so we're not even allowed to mention their names. I mentioned it a few times here, and the lawsuit came in, the charges, the charges, the prosecution. You can't insult them, they're icons. Thus, a country that has almost the same number of pensioners and those who are able to work and receive a salary, an equal relationship, and a close relationship between the unemployed. There are some that are fictitiously held as employees, but in reality they are unemployed too. There's no perspective. Those who need to fill their budget are not working and are given subsidies to avoid going out on the street, and that is a big problem today for Serbia. This little thing he's doing, there's nothing more to take from him. A peasant naked like a gun. You can see it's a bag of artificial fertilizer - 2,800 dinars. How do you buy a bag of fertilizer? What do you want him to do? So, there's no real budget charge, now it's trying through increased VAT and excise to do something, and there's a big problem. Therefore, I would ask you gentlemen from the ruling coalition to seriously consider how these problems can be solved. You can't just push problems under the carpet - you'll get to the ceiling. They can't run away from key government people from showing up in this parliament to file their bills. They can't run away from the problem. Have you solved the reserve issue -- here's not even in this budget, are you? You can't solve this. Have you solved the pensioners you promised - you can't, there's no money? Did you solve the action - you didn't? Here we are in the new year and you haven't solved it. Dinkic no longer mentions action - none of it. Where do the new 200,000 jobs come from when people get fired every day? So you said white Schengen visa by the end of last year -- no. Now you are ashamed of your European friends explaining - there is no EU entry until it is recognised as an independent Kosovo. Here, they're texting you today, texting you every day, and you keep your mouth shut. Is that really what it is, Mr. Minister Dulic -- isn't it? I'm glad it didn't, but here I am today, as far as I can read, it's been published in several papers. So you have to sit down and think about -- where you're taking Serbia, where you've taken it, and with these friends of yours, who, today you've seen, behave like a circus show -- you've brought a map of the Republic of Vojvodina, you've spread the story, you've hit a joke and they don't care. They're going home. They come in a little bit, they run away, they don't care about Serbia. We were talking about funds for the Banatski Court. They were swept and given from the previous government to the Vojvodina Capital Fund. Where are the funds? We said and we're ordering President Boris Tadic. I've asked more than once where the money from Mobtel was 1.6 billion. Where are they -- no answer? He's talking - we sold it. Where's the money? I wasn't the finance minister, I was Cvetkovic when the money arrived. Minister Dulic, ask Cvetkovic where the billions and six million are. Where's the money from the Robing Houses? These martyrs here freeze all winter in the park, looking for their share. Where's the money from the third operator 300 million euros, what about that money? That's two billion and 260 million. You spent it on the campaign, gentlemen, you spent on a variety of increases, charming the electoral body to get it -- you got it. You said - European Serbia, prosperity, win Europe together. And here's where we've come from -- the darkest situation in the last 20 years. Is this your Europe? Is that a better life? You said better life, you said - it wasn't me. We said-- I can't retire. You said - we can. Here you go, gentlemen. What now? Problems. The gas problem, the electricity problem, the problem with this, the problem with Banatski Dvor, the problem with public enterprises, the JAT problem. Why didn't you let JAT sell when people gave us 140m euros? They came to the government, they wrote elaborates, and Europe told you not to. We say, let it fail, we don't give. You're messing with the Russians here today, as a Russian option, your friends, etc. They can't bring us in the bottles here gas. It's got to be every serious state and every country has a gas storage facility for the winter period -- people, it's a normal thing. We need the facility. We had money for the facility, and in the previous government, whose member I was, the money was set aside. Then the warrant came and it was said - all investments in the Vojvodina area must go through the Vojvodina Capital Fund. That's what Pytić took well and poured. He says-- everyone voted him. They must have voted him, when he had a hand and a hat to share and empty his budget, he destroyed the register. The vault was empty before the new year. I know when you were waiting for this guy to pay some war off the Robing Houses to give these unfortunate municipalities to receive some dinar, and kindergartens, etc. So I suggest that you get serious this year, that you just don't brag a lot about it, that everything works, that you tell what's true -- that it's very hard and that you change a little if you can. If you can't, you're in bad shape, gentlemen. It's bad for you. You can't run and talk about such serious laws with this kind of policy - we're passing laws, Europe is looking for. Europe won't, people, see if you're small. Can't you see they won't talk to you? Who are they sending you here? They needed you to finish this, to bring in Eulex, they introduced you, and they don't invite you anymore -- no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You used to have Solana, and all in a row, Ollie Rehn any minute. I see and Miskovic was sitting with Ollie Rena, running some to boast that he had made a government -- here, you made a government. You have 14 groups there, a party. What can you do - nothing, gentlemen, seriously? The working-age population is looking for a job. The ruling party, the ruling coalition, if it wants to say that it's done, it has to hire a working-age population, and you're firing them massively. People are scared, waiting for who to go home. So get serious. Do not schedule sessions when you are not ready, and many times you have not been ready - do not prepare the budget in time. You remember that last circus last week, it was a shame - chasing here, talking, chasing. And after the different stories that are going around, I don't want to participate as an MP, nor does New Serbia as a parliamentary group. And there are many of you who have made a mockery, and you have begged them here. You've chased a lot of people, begged them to support that budget. We were correct, on the right hand side, we said we'd help and we'd help. We helped, but don't get us wet now, if we helped you do something. At least now you're smart and you're working on time, here's the beginning of the year. You know how, when you start, what the hump is born, time doesn't make it right, and if you start this year upside down, you'll never get her in line. That's why we're willing to help as much as we can. We are the opposition, but it's nice to have this country strong, stable, independent, that we don't have these tutors coming in here, and they're slapping our slaps and warning us what we're supposed to do. They say this can't be about Mladic. You know what happened with Thaci, and with Ceku, and with Haradinaj, etc. Talk to that Europe for a minute. It doesn't take so long for us to be humiliated, to be trampled, trampled, pushed down the floor with us - why? Because we don't have people who represent us when they go to these European institutions, to world institutions. It used to be a lot different. So, seriously, it's the beginning of the year. Say hello to Prime Minister Cvetkovic, and let him declare himself once before - is he a prime minister or is he some sort of towel for the government's oppression? If Boris is prime minister, it's not that bad - we'll be here if we have to crown him. Come on, let's be king, emperor, maybe it's a man's thing, but it can't be all -- in the army he solves problems, in the travel business, in the railways, in the investments, in the corridors, now with the businessmen, around the gas, a man comes into the story, all to solve problems. He's not good with people. You see that he will not, he will not. Everything that is caught, it will be dried, it will be destroyed. (President: Time. So please get serious. It's humiliating to us that on such a serious subject and such serious laws you send to us ministers, who simply, people came here, good people -- but missed out on the subject clearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12182	Mr. Dragan Shormaz is advertising the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12183	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, right in the spirit of members 225 and 226 and fully in line with the agenda, I would like to ask the present minister that we can continue to work at all, because it is a completely confusing atmosphere when we see the proposals of the laws that have come, which should require that the budget be filled and the commitments made to budget users be realized. On the other hand, on the same day, we have papers and statements from the finance minister, who is not here today, who announces beyond all of this and this whole package of laws, possibly an increase in VAT. We know that the IMF also defended us, that they were against it. I'm interested in the minister coming out and saying, not to record and mark, but probably there they know the answer to those questions, to come out and say -- did he calculate whether they in the government have calculated that this will carry out the planned budget filling. I'm also asking my fellow PUPS MPs -- are they aware, with all that is now foreseen, that pensions will be worth 60% of what they have today on December 31st this year. It's the opposite of what was a promise. So, VAT all the countries in Europe are shrinking, reducing interest, just to help the economy, to help the businesses that you've been meeting with a few days ago. On the other hand, you sign an extended fact of a collective contract, so you don't apply it. You say -- it can't, it burdens the economy -- and then you announce an increase in VAT. Who's burdening himself with that? Business and citizens. Is what you're proposing, this set of laws, actually not enough for the budget? If you are announcing an increase in VAT, place an equal sign, which means that what you predicted is not enough. What's VAT for, if not for budgeting? If you raise VAT, you will burden the economy even more and what little does is the question of whether it will be charged. Better charges are needed, not tax increases. (President: Time. You know exactly what you're into. We're interested here, since you're authorized to answer these questions clearly, specifically, so that we can keep working.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12184	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12185	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Dulic, may I have your attention, given that you of the Government have been designated representative of this set of financial laws, I assume you have studied the accompanying budget laws for 2009. I just want to point out a proposal for a customs tariff law. If you have carefully read the reasoning of this law, it says in the law-making effects - law-making will not significantly affect the level of income of the Republic of Serbia's budget on the basis of customs burden. Mr. Dulic, I ask you to go out for this pay phone and tell the MPs -- is there a projection in the government of how much funds will be collected this way -- because we really need to have that information right now, so that we can discuss these laws in quality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12186	Mr. Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12187	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, I am reporting to Article 93, where paragraph 3 is said - the MP who has taken the board's opinion at the session has the right to speak for up to five minutes. Since Mrs Comic was chaired at the time, she probably ignored the matter, she did not give a word to the MPs who had issued an opinion on the resolution committees, in that sense... (Gordana Comić, from the scene: Not true. That's right, here's a stenogram. (Gordana Comić, from the place: No. In that sense, please, if I can get my five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12188	Thank you. We'll take a look at the stenogram. Mrs Gordana Comic claims she asked if she wanted a word on behalf of the board. (Gordana Comić, from the post: Reporters of the competent committees. Here you go, Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12189	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, at the beginning of a principled search on this set of laws, I was hoping that Minister Kalanovic would explain the objectives of amending and supplementing the seven laws in detail. If nothing, I was hoping for some serious analysis by the government before it proposed such laws, however, we know that we did not hear it from Mrs Kalanovic. I will ask a specific question for Minister Dulic, as he is currently authorised here in front of the government to tell us why there is an increase in excise duties on oil derivatives, whether this is the result of an agreement between Serbia and the IMF. I also want Minister Dulic to come out and tell everyone here the key elements of the agreement Serbia signed with the IMF. This information is very important to us because a principled debate is under way, and we know that during today’s debate this debate will be over. That's why I call on Mr. Dulic to answer these few questions that DSS MPs have asked here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12190	Thank you. Mr Meho Omerovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12191	Madam President, a clear explanation for the esteemed colleague Pejcic. I have no intention of defending the chairman, Vice President Gordan Comic. This morning, Mr. Pejcic, you did not deliver an opinion at the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs session, whose president I happen to be, and you, because at this morning's session, you were present, but you and your colleague left the session, and at the last session of the Committee that was in December last year, it was true that you gave an opinion, but it was last session, and we were discussing a new law on amendments to the PIO Act this morning, and that's two different things. There was a confusion in that, but purely because of the citizens and distinguished fellow MPs, this argument. So, you didn't deliver your opinion this morning, but I assume you'll take part in the debate after we start a debate on the agenda in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12192	Mr. Momo Colakovic, on behalf of the PUPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12193	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, honourable MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group, has expressed its position on the draft laws under consideration at today's session on the 2009 budget law of the Republic of Serbia, both in principle and in particular, and we will not change that position, we will remain in those positions and in the voting day we will make a positive statement regarding the set of proposed laws. However, today's session raises some questions concerning the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO and deserves at least a small answer. It differs diametrically, and that, one thesis, that pensioners should not be given so much increase, they should not increase pensions in favour of children and grandchildren, and the other the the thesis that pensioners will be denied in 2009, that pensions will be frozen and that they do not deserve it. They're both partly right and partly wrong. First of all, to express the position I have put forward on the budget, so that pensioners don't ask for anything to be given to them. Pensioners should get what they have earned and invested as a full contribution to the development of the country's cultural and material goods. In this regard, they are ready to share the fate of all citizens of this country, especially workers, unemployed and most vulnerable citizens. Let me remind you, in addition to the huge investments and the construction of this country, they have made a huge contribution in the last eight years to all the problems that have hit our country in transition. I would like to remind you that, with regard to the laws amended in 2001, 2003 and 2005, according to the budgets made in the Fund, more than 200 billion dinars were made by pensioners less than they could under the laws. The budget law provided for and specified, when it comes to the second thesis, in addition to a member who is also told in the law, that the government will monitor economic developments for 2009 and propose appropriate measures accordingly, which in a sense means that a certain improvement is possible in relation to what is foreseen. I have to say that we can interpret this, and we, in a sense, interpret it, if we get into a situation as many critics predict it, that this can also be a safeguard measure when it comes to pension payments, that those below this level that can't fall right now. I have a few other things to point out. The United Pensioners' Party of Serbia has never pledged to bring pensions into line with 70% of the average pension in 2008. What has been agreed in the campaign and agreements under the ruling coalition has been reached. First of all, the pensions went up 10% and there were a lot of different opinions about it and we managed to keep that pension level going. The regulation that increased pensions has been introduced into the law, both in the Budget Law and in the Law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Secondly, the social status of the pensioner changes, it has to be acknowledged. We are aware of that in all local self-governments, cities, the provinces and the republics. In that sense, the social status of pensioners is changed. Also, when it comes to the area of health care, positive movements are related to a positive list of medicines. A lot of questions in local self-government are resolved. I'm not saying that's enough, but the example of Belgrade and Jagodina is very instructive, that every three-month pensioners, for example, in Belgrade, who have below 13,000 pensions, are paid an allowance of 4,000 dinars, totalling 16,000 dinars for the whole year. I have to say, we have to avoid a trap that says that pensions that are the lowest should grow and pensions that are bigger should not grow. We did the math, and we asked colleagues from the DSS and DS to help us find a calculation of how and how to do it, to make lower pensions grow faster without high pensions growing. And we've come into a situation, there's colleagues we've talked to, for example, if the lowest pension is 11,200 dinars and we raise it by 10%, so it reaches 13,800 dinars, then the one with 11,500 dinars deserves to increase. And his pension is small. We need to avoid social pension status in the pension insurance system. On the other hand, we have suggested that the government form a fund from which it will intervene towards the most endangered pensioners, or all of the inhabitants of this country. The last thing I want to say is, it's a question of who cheated on whom, although we don't mention it in our presentations. In the last elections, 11 May 2008, according to official RIK data, 61.4% of voters went to the polls. If we take that from pensioners of 1,600,000, it's about 1,050,000 pensioners. Now we need to see, all of us in the campaign were talking about pensioners. I've got these papers right here. The party that came forward today said it and the party would ensure that pensions are 70% compared to the average salary in the coming period. That's what Mr. Buha said in one of the parties' campaigns. That's a promise. Based on those promises, the party has provided, by our assessment, estimates of institutions, 400,000 votes, and if you say we cheated, we have provided 150 000 votes for our coalition, including for other parties. Who's the one who cheated on you now? Please, we call on all political parties and parties to act on improving the material and social position of pensioners in three directions. First, what we've achieved so far is to preserve. Secondly, let's pass a new law the respected minister spoke of in 2009. The third thing is to reform the pension system, which is one long-term process. In this regard, we call on all political parties to work together on this and to adopt the law at the end of 2009 and to adopt a reform strategy for the entire pension and disability system in the coming years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12194	Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word for the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Nikolic, I thought you called as head of Parliament. Here, you've called before. Mrs. Milice, I'm sorry, he called earlier, but I thought he called as head of Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12195	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure. I would like to protect the dignity of the National Assembly, however much the predecessor deserves respect for his age, for the tone he spoke to us, for trying to say that he represents one of the endangered categories of our society, yet it must be said that at least one false and several half-truths have been spoken here. For example, the fact that you've never promised 70% pension alignment with 70% of the average profit. It was an asset that made you leave the negotiations with the People's Coalition and the SRS and go into the arms of the "yellows". Your president, who is the president of an interested group, and you can't say that you represent pensioners, there are pensioners in every political party, it would turn out that you're the only ones who care about pensioners, and when you sit in the parliamentary bench you forget what pensioners look like. When we made the project as much as we could raise our pensions, and Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic took part in it, it turns out that by the end of the year we could by 10% and we couldn't guarantee that we could coordinate 70% in the budget for this year. Your president said -- they didn't convince me they could make 70%, I'm turning into a camp of those who can make it happen. Now that the others can't, you say -- we never talked about it, we never asked for it in our negotiations. You asked. Say, we can't. Now we've made sure we can't. The budget won't let us. The incomes don't allow, the global crisis. You're a smart man, you make up some reason, but don't make it up and claim something didn't happen. On the other hand, it seemed to us here as if you were praising the pensioners for helping them with 200 billion so far, so they were denied the law. Well, it's a shame that you're bringing it up that way, instead of coming out here and saying, you owe the pensioners 200 billion, you say here we're justifiably entering parliament, we helped in these eight years with 200 billion unpaid, we helped the state. Does that mean anything to that pensioner who doesn't have the money to buy bread today? It doesn't mean anything to him. He needs a fight for his rights. That's right, it's not a social category, pension, earned. Come on, you're in power now, take responsibility, say you couldn't achieve it. Why? Because it's not up to you to decide, but DS, G17 plus, but you got involved in a group of people who only care about the top, and G17 plus doesn't care about pensioners, but their directors have 15,000 euros in monthly salaries. The Democratic Party, and it doesn't care about the pensioners. Now you're left with no concern for the pensioners, because you walked into some other door and some other mangers. I really don't want to hear it here in this National Assembly. (President: Time. This is where you came in, I apologize, I end up defending the rights of the pensioner, not telling us how they suffered, but you can't help them. One more message to you, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, if you do not calm down, next time I answer the word I will remain behind the pay phone until I am allowed to speak as a national MP in a congratulatory, a moral National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12196	Mrs. Vojić-Markovic has a word. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please don't throw each other away.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12197	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr Secretary, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I call upon the dignity of the congregation and that every one of us who comes out here must speak absolutely the truth, therefore, not the half-truth, not what fits or doesn't respond, but simply the truth. My address to you here today refers to what Mr. Arsenovic has brought here. I just couldn't believe what he put out here. He's talking about some changed social status of pensioners. Here, I could read these few days by the various agencies that offered arrangements for the New Year's Eve and for the extended New Year's Eve that simply the pensioners couldn't get close, so only the pensioners bought those arrangements. I invite Mr. Arsenovic to talk to the pensioners for a little while, because they didn't have the courtesy for Christmas to be at least rich in meat. Then, it tells us about a 10% increase in the amount of gas, energy, food, drink, utility services, phone subscription and impulses, not to speak any further. Furthermore, it is called here for this increase, and it forgets to say that in this bill that is before us, this increase entered into the basics of paying out pensions in 2009, but what is essential is that the amount of pensions will not change during 2009, regardless of the cost of life and regardless of inflation. The Democratic Party of Serbia has tabled an amendment that regulates this, i.e. annulling such a negative fact of this law, and I call on the PUPS gentlemen to vote in favour of this amendment, given that it and how it can contribute to the increase of both status and pension to the pensioners. Then, he's here talking about that they've criticised a linear pension increase. As I recall, the DSS from this pay phone at least on one 50 occasions said it was a linear increase really funny and talked about finding a new model. In today's "News", you can read, Mr Arsenovic, that Finance Minister Mrs Dragutinovic says she has a model that can increase the minimum pension. So this doesn't look like an outwitting of DSS and PUPS, I'm simply asking the government's authorised representative, Mr. Dulic, to come out here and tell us what this bill we're talking about here actually offers, about amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, and whether what Mr. Arsenovic is saying actually makes sense, does it have a foothold in this law? Thank you. Excuse me, it's about Mr. Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12198	Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic is advertising his Rules of Procedure. First Mr. Dimitrijevic, Mr. Krasic, then you, Mr. Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12199	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with Article 226. The MP needs information from the minister and other representatives of the government. So my report to the Rules of Procedure applies and is about the agenda. In the agenda, point 5, Proposal for a law on temporary exemption from taxation on the income tax of citizens of certain types of income. So, in this law, Article 2, it is said -- it is not determined and does not pay taxes on capital revenue based on interest on foreign savings deposits and other deposits made from the date of entry into force of the law until 31 December 2009. So my question for Mr. Dulic is this -- what was that income from the savings tax in the previous budget? That's not what the law says. What is this figure, or how much less money will be in the budget if this law is now applied? I think it's very important that we know, we read the numbers, we deal with the money, and we need to know exactly how much money it used to be in the budget, how much less, to get involved in the debate about this law properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12200	The word has first Mr. Aligrudić, then Mr. Krasic, then Mr. Arsenović, then Mr. Nikolic, it's the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12201	Article 104 concerning 226. Mr. Dulic, you are here an authorised representative of the Government and for your obvious inability to answer specific questions relating to this debate and which are being asked under Article 226, and if and what is the real basis for this Article to be activated and to be asked, there is, in particular, when the debate is under way, or when the majority of this debate will be time-consequent in the coming period, to answer some key questions that are about to be addressed to the MPs to reach certain conclusions. How are the questions asked to you, such as the issue of the structure of the IMF arrangement, for which we would have to get an answer immediately, because of that, ultimately, depends on the way and the course of the discussion, at least as regards the MPs of the DSS, or as these questions about the exact amount of revenue in the budget when it comes to income from interest taxes or as some of the other issues raised here to you, you would have to, as an authorised representative of the Government, give the answer immediately and as far as I've heard from some of my MPs, you threw one of them to do so at the end. You know, it's possible at the end of the discussion to streamline some things when discussions are heard, so give an answer by the government's representatives as some kind of overall response. But here are specific questions that depend on the further course of the discussion and are directly related to Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You've been listening to these questions since 1740. You don't have the answers to those questions, because you don't know them. You don't know them, now you're going to prove otherwise, you're going to come out after me, so you're going to answer these questions. You don't know them, you don't know the answers to those questions, because they're very specific and they're looking for concrete information, because you're the minister, I don't personally blame you, you should know right away, and in front of the public, I really, very much respect you personally, but you're the minister from the government pulled out of the drum. You've been pulled out of the drums today to come and play a representative of the government at this session, and then that's how the form is covered. You know, there are different ways people react here. We can react that way, some people like to say when there's no government official who's directly in the matter, we'll contact the Rules of Procedure. We don't want to do it, we don't think of it. We can ask you a question that you will not have a concrete answer for, and I would like you to deny me, not for me or for you, but for the citizens of Serbia and for the dignity of this home, and to answer these questions nicely. That answer has to be very specific and meaningful and we need to get it right away. You're asking me where it says it. It doesn't say anything, Mr. Dulic. You can give us those answers in two months, but in this way we will prove that there is your indifference to the National Assembly. That's what you're doing to us, not personally, Mr. Dulic, the government of the Republic of Serbia. (President: Time. ) I believe that this shows your negative attitude towards citizens because you burden the citizens with laws that will hit their pockets because of your unsustainable need to unilaterally apply the SAA, which will deprive the Serbian budget for 300m euros, which will pay the citizens, and we ask the essential things that are essential, as the main deficits of these laws. These are your deficits and you don't have an answer for them right now. I understand that, but it's not correct. That's what this is about. The government might next time not get the ministers out of the drum, but send someone in matter to discuss what the point is. I'm sorry I made it too long.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12202	The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic, also according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12203	I refer to Rule 27 of our Rules of Procedure, and this article applies to you, above all, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, in the way you conduct this session and how you apply the Rules of Procedure. I appreciate your autonomy, and I appreciate your view of tolerance, but you can see for yourself that we are in a situation that many of the issues that have not been resolved at the time when they have to solve themselves now have some other dimensions. Don't be surprised, someone will probably charge you with something in the paper tomorrow that you didn't even think about. I warn you, I call upon you, I also inform you and the public, simply, I appeal to you that with the representatives of the majority in the National Assembly, just think about the situation in which the National Assembly is located, and it is virtually defamed completely. Remember, the 28th time we had an opportunity to attack the SRS here to defend the amendments, the 29th attack was that she gave up the discussion on the amendments, and then in the evening we heard that one of the representatives of the government gave two million euros and you kept your mouth shut. And you as president of the National Assembly, shut up the president of the Republic, shut up the president of the SPS, shut up Hope Kolundži, shut up Gordana Comic, everybody. You're all scared. If that's true, say, if that's not true, let it be tested, let it be determined. Now someone spit and that spit stayed. Everyone's got that spit. This has to be resolved, this is not an insult question, this has elements of slander, but there are many more elements of something called spreading false news. Unless he responds to it in good time, then we still have a qualified form of such pathological behavior, where a man who is in prison accuses himself of being a murderer, so the entire UN tribunal says it's nonsense, that there is no such information, and those who slander and spread false news play victims, and they are constantly victims in public. They're constantly threatened by someone, and they're throwing something at everyone, up until a few months ago at the SRS, and now by the DS, and by the SPS, and by the government, and by everyone. (President: Time. ) I hope you finally realized that that little rock that was plowing, it fell out and grew, became a big rock that tends to drag to the bottom of the river first of all Boris Tadic, as the ultimate protector of something that is extremely immoral. I'm calling you, and I've called on article 27. The Rules of Procedure, because I believe that you are under obligation to protect the dignity of the National Assembly from random passersby, citizens who come by here, teach everyone a lesson, spit and go away, and cry out how threatened they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12204	Mr. Krasic, the public has been informed of my position on the topic, and you are also informed. Don't ask me to be an investigative authority, I'm the president of the assembly. Mr. Arsenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12205	I went out to introduce myself, that I was Arsenović, not Moma Colakovic, who was my previous speaker. I understand that my colleagues can't remember the names of everyone, but I recommend, if we don't already recognize each other, then we don't call ourselves names, but we call on the speaker who spoke earlier. I am not offended by this and do not disprove what my colleague Moma Colakovic said. On the contrary, I support him. When I'm out, I just want to say a few words. We here seem to hear what we want to hear and talk about what we want to say, not respecting the truth or what it is and what it is said. I'm saying that exactly in the pre-election campaign, we promised to raise pensions by 10% and change the law as a prerequisite for pensions to line up with 70% of the average earnings. So the condition is the law. That's how much we can remember and then let's discuss it that way. When the law is passed, then we will create conditions for retirement to be harmonised. Criticize us if it's not regulated by law. That's one thing. (Dear Shormaz, from the scene: When will he be adopted? Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. (President: Mr. Shormaz, do not disturb the speaker, do not report from the scene.) I hope he'll be adopted this year. The law is prepared. So, the thing is, it's a procedure that needs to go through. Also, as far as pensioners are concerned, gentlemen, I must say once again, that concern is the reason and reason why the PUPS was formed. I'm not saying that you've all had the same relationship with pensioners, it's been critical, it's been pointed at problems and I thank you, but we have to admit that the results, as far as the pensioners are concerned, have been catastrophic. Everything that seems now cannot be fixed overnight. It takes time and I hope that we and how to improve the standards of pensioners, respecting all the problems this society is facing, especially the economic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12206	National MP Zoran Nikolic has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Mr. Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12207	"By my head, the first law to be discussed in the National Assembly will be an amendment to the Law on Pension-Invalid Insurance. "This was said by current Vice-President Mr. Krkobibic, that is what you said and you claimed that this year's pension will be 70% of the average personal income. What we are saying here, not only have you failed those promises, and not only that the promise and the vow of the head is not accomplished, we argue that this draft pension budget will not increase, but it will be less than 8% in 31.12.2009, for the amount of inflation. Mr. Colakovic came out here and tried to say there would be some changes. I really don't want to go into controversy with you anymore. You have that attitude, we claim the opposite. We claim that you failed the promises you made to the pensioners and that indeed their pensions will be less. I'm calling for amendments to the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act. I am not asking for an answer from you, but I am asking for an answer from the government representative, Mr Dulic, who has been authorized. When I asked for the authority of this law this morning, since we did not get it in writing, after 12.00 hours arrived and it was said that Mr. Dulic was an authorised representative in front of the government. Let the minister cut and say whether I am interpreting this law correctly, and the law says the following - the minimum amount of pension, the amount of cash compensation and the amount of the general score established for October 2008 by increasing 10%, combined with the regular harmonisation of pensions in accordance with the provisions of the PIO Act, is the basis for the payment of pensions, i.e. the monetary fees and the determination of the value of the general score for 2009. That means what we said here, that the burden of the budget will break over the back of the pensioner and that the real pensions will be less. I call on the minister to confirm this, so let's clear this up, not to go further into the controversy of DSS representatives and PUPS representatives, but to have the minister say whether or not we interpret this correctly. So I'd like to ask you, Mr. Dulic, to step out now. It's very good, there are ministers from your party who participate actively in the discussion and it's always proven to be good, we take one question off the agenda, it corrects the atmosphere, we go to the next and very fast and much faster and much more dynamic discussion and it's much more fruitful in the end. Don't end up answering, because there's a chance that the PUPS colleagues will come back and we'll open some debate here. Then this waste of time, or what you would call obstruction, goes on your soul. You are an authorised representative, come out here and give an official interpretation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12208	Mr. Dulic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12209	Since I was an MP before this position, and I know how things work, I'm going to give you a chance to bring this debate to what it should be, and that is to go back to the debate about the law itself, that is, the laws in principle, as it is ultimately foreseen. You all got reports on these laws in December, you heard that, you had a chance to discuss and discuss all these laws. They didn't change in the meantime, and you know it very well. You had a discussion all day today and you could listen to all the reasons that were. I understand that some MPs don't understand following repeated arguments, so then they have to be given an additional explanation, so I'm going to do it now. Three groups of questions have been opened here. I'd like to answer each of them, of course, globally, and then if you insist that each of these questions be answered in particular, in the final word I'll give you an additional interpretation. First of all, the issue of VAT increases has been raised here. So no one has the intention to open that question at this point until one serious analysis is completed first and foremost, which will be done at the monthly level of all macroeconomic parameters that should lead to the stabilisation of our financial system. At this point, of course, we cannot predict everything that will be the consequences of the global financial crisis and the consequences of a possible crisis that our economy could enter into. Since a different type of analysis will be carried out at the monthly level, I believe that this government will rather move forward to insisting on a restrictive budget, further reducing public spending than increasing VAT, and that is something that is at this point the general position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this is the answer to this set of issues concerning the raise of VAT. As for the issues that concerned the very analysis of the effects of one of the laws, which is the law on temporary exemption from taxation on the income of citizens of certain species, and the question was whether I knew what that percentage is now, it is 20% and it is abolished. There is an accurate analysis of how this will affect our financial system. The revenue of the budget will be reduced on the basis of tax exemptions, from interest on foreign exchange savings will be reduced by two and a half billion dinars, from the capital gains achieved by the transfer of securities from the value and interest on the property of legal persons a billion and per dinar and in the exemption from the taxation of income from agriculture and forestry will not have an effect on the overall movement of this share in the budget this year. That's the answer to that other set of questions that concerned this particular data. As to the question of whether there is an analysis of the effects of the different lifting or reduction of excise duty and tax, and here I have an answer to your question. When it comes to the proposed change of excise duty on beer, the effect on the budget will be 0.9 billion dinars this year. As for the effects of raising excise duty on cigarettes, the total increase in revenue in the budget will be three and a half billion dinars, as regards the effects of increasing excise duties on motor gasoline, the total contribution to the budget this year will be 8.3 billion dinars. So I gave you the answer to all the questions you asked me, and now I ask you to return to the debate in principle according to these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12210	Thank you, Mr. Minister. First of all, Mr Krasic, I'm sorry, Mr Šormaz, before you were contacted by Mr Krasic, so Mr Šormaz, then Mr Colakovic, but it would be really nice to get back to the agenda and to the debate in principle, which we already had once.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12211	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I didn't ask you to conduct an investigation. The one in charge of the investigation, I've already spoken to him. I'm taking the opportunity to inform you and that he's already been informed of this, he's also received the indictment proposal and a request for an investigation, but that's not your problem. I'm not asking you to conduct an investigation. I only ask you to make an effort to allow normal political processes to take place in the National Assembly, that in this country normal political parties work, that those represented in the National Assembly be represented with their full capacity, as the people said, and that a political process is taking place, and not to disabling the hall and everything that is said here, so that at one point you can assume the role that everyone can go with criticism, at one point that is Boris Tadic, and everyone with criticism towards him, and then joyous columnists disabling everything. At this historic moment, Serbia does not need that. Serbia needs problems solved, because in 2009, we have to survive with as few scars and as little pain as possible. In order to achieve this, normal political processes are needed in accordance with the electoral will of citizens and I do not ask you to conduct an investigation, just asking for political lucidity, state wisdom, to overcome these problems, so that this assembly will not be a sponge where anyone can spit and this sponge picks up everything and everything. The dignity of this assembly depends primarily on you, and then on the parliamentary majority in the National Assembly. You know what the problems are, let's solve problems and our functioning in the Assembly, and problems in the state, to ensure normal political processes. You don't want to solve it, but you're putting it off, you're stockpiling problems, you see for yourself, in a few months, the problems have multiplied and they're constantly multiplying. We really lack a serious political discussion here. If tolerance is needed, if cooperation is needed, we have always been prepared to cooperate. I don't want to remind you how much the KIM resolution that was brought here together is. As soon as the co-operation was missing, the big deal, you saw, Eulex came. What happened? It was exactly what we said from this pay phone that was going to happen. For normal political processes you are also responsible for Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12212	Mr. Krasic, just don't minimize your influence on Parliament's dignity. The word is Mr. Dragan Shormaz, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12213	President, I truly admit that I have used my parliamentary experience to, regardless of the mature years, nevertheless by the unexperienced MP Arsenovic to make excuses for the pay phone what we all wanted and to hear in a non-business way. If you had punished me, you'd be right, I'm saying it now from the assembly pay phone, but I'm not sorry I did it because we heard what we wanted to hear. Mr. Arsenovicu, it's not true that you didn't promise, you promised and it should have been valid since January 1st this year. So you promised in the campaign, so you performed in the negotiations, so you asked the President of the Republic and Tomislav Nikolic and Vojislav Kostunica when you negotiated the creation of the government, that is, when you simulated the negotiations, because during that time, you negotiated with DS in cafes and restaurants the creation of this government, while in front of the cameras you officially negotiated with us, and that's the only truth. Don't brag about the 10% increase. Do you know how much inflation was in 2008, how much was planned for 2009? Do you know how much the euro will be expected to take on 31 January 2009? Do you know what a course was then, and what a course it is now? What did they get with those 10% pensioners? What kind of struggle is this within the government? I agree with Mr. Colakovic. Of course, you may have received at least the votes of the pensioners, which is why you do not have the deed to speak and to be representatives of the pensioners and to speak for them. You don't even have the responsibility, I agree, to speak for all pensioners, we all have the votes of a pensioner in a certain number, someone smaller, someone more, but you certainly don't have the most, regardless of what you have in the name of a pensioner. All you said was one thing that was right, you didn't keep your promises, you didn't do what you entered the government for. It's the only reason you came into the government, you don't have the strength to do it, and you don't leave the government with five MPs, even though you can't do what you promised, and you didn't do it, and you can't do it in 2009. Minister, I agree with you that maybe the VAT issue should not be opened, and why didn't you tell the finance minister what you're talking about here? She opened it. It's her interview at Evening News. And it needs to be opened and reduced. It should also be reduced to help businesses because, I say, with a smaller VAT, there will be more budget payments and less risk of losing jobs. It's supposed to open up, to shrink, and you're not thinking about cutting, but the finance minister is thinking about increasing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12214	National MP Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12215	Articles 101, 103 and 104. The Honorable President, the Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable People's MPs, it is not the custom for us to argue with other Parliament groups or to be wise, but because of the truth, we have to go out for a pay phone and say what is true. First, the claims that we promised that in 2008 pensions would be increased to 70% of the average pension compared to the average salary, that is not true. We've accepted the idea to prepare and pass the law, and it's within the government prepared and I can show you here, which precisely puts our commitment and determination to go to 70%. When it comes to the agenda, we'll fight and then help us make our efforts come true, because, as Mr. Shormaz said, you promised the pensioners and got the right number of votes in this regard. Secondly, in the campaign here, one speaker put it precisely, here I have paper, Mr. Buha said, please, only this and that candidate for president will realize that pensioners will live better and pensions will be 70% of the average pension compared to the average salary. The candidate here is an MP at the Serbian Parliament. An increase of 10% and the question of what's going to happen in 2009, we can now predict all what's going to happen, but according to our predictions, very precise and calculated how things are now, pensions are not consistent with inflation growth, but with the cost of living. According to our budgets, the average pension today is 21,711 dinars, and it will be so on April 1st and October 1st, as the law provides, with the measure the government will take if improvements occur. If it were to go up in line with the cost of living, for example, for example, not 7%, 8% or 10%, but 3.8% on April 1st, then that average pension would be 20,421 dinars or 1,290 dinars less than today. But let's leave that check when it's time. That's why I'm asking you to keep in mind what we're talking about here. Finally, to say that I am convinced that the Government will provide, as it says in the Budget Law and in this law, that pensions will be paid regularly and at the level laid down in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12216	The word is Mr. Zoran Nikolic. Please bring to an end the dialogues, this is not even the use of advertising by the Rules of Procedure, not abuse, but something else. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic, I'd like you to make a contribution to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12217	I'll make my contribution, I've tried that in my previous report. I appealed to the minister to come out and give us answers to the questions that were asked here. So you went out here and you didn't answer any of the questions that were raised here, and among other things, you didn't answer any of the questions about pensions. You must understand that you are an authorized representative of the government. If the government is speaking through your mouth tonight, then it is clear to us that the government has no answer to any questions or go out for this pay phone and answer these questions, otherwise these discussions will continue. I have to tell you one thing, the economy is very similar to medicine. It's science, of course, but it's also certain skills. When a person gets sick, he first refers to an experienced doctor, not to a doctor who first faces certain illnesses. We asked you, I don't know why you came here, answer some basic and basic questions, you here absolutely don't give those answers, you're making things complicated in the National Assembly, and we have this kind of unnecessary dialogue. So, come out and tell me nicely if it's true that pensions will remain frozen in 2009. A number of issues have been raised which are concrete, financial or economic effects of raising excise duties, attitude towards the IMF, etc. I specifically asked you this question, and I would really ask that if you're already going out for this pay phone, then answer that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12218	The word is Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12219	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, did not follow the adoption of the accompanying legislation at the end of last year, which lays down instruments and fiscal policies for filling it, i.e. the revenue side of the budget. Maybe that's a good thing if we used this time to take another look at the reliability of the basics and the height of the instruments that should allow for the achievement of the planned revenues. I believe that the most unpopular measure in the year would be to amend tax regulations that would increase the rates of individual instruments, such as personal income taxes, value added tax and similar, which are not covered by this set of laws. The budget developments at the end of last year showed that the global economic and financial crisis also knocked on our door, that is, the door of our budget. We have somehow overcome this initial blow, and it may happen to us to be transferred in this year, and especially to reflect in the first trimester, which is also the most critical in achieving budget revenues and in normal conditions. I believe that the measures adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia a few days ago set priorities in implementing budget expenditure. Although it is an unfavourable environment, I still believe it is necessary to move towards the realisation of the harmonisation of customs rates and excise duties in order to harmonise with the Transition Agreement with the EU. We gave up about 23 billion dinars in revenue on the basis of the implementation of the Transition Agreement, and the burden will again be borne by drivers and tobaccoists. The happy environment is the decline in oil prices on the world market. It won't put too much pressure on drivers, but it'll pay the tobacco, especially if there's no subsidies left from the state register for tobacco producers. So I would say that today's agenda is of paramount importance, we have proposals for very important laws, following budget laws that should practically allow for budget filling. The SPS-JS parliamentary group in principle supports the proposed legislative solutions, by submitting a number of amendments to the Amendments and Supplements Act. Of course, we support that ultimate goal. This proposed law aims to harmonize the excise policy with EU regulations and standards, reduce the grey economy, ensure a more stable flow of funds in the republican budget, but we expect that a number of amendments submitted by the SPS-JS parliamentary group will be accepted, but we will talk about this when the debate begins under the amendments. As regards the proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, this legislative proposal provides for a reduction in customs duty rates to passenger and motor vehicles from 20 to 12.5%, then a reduction in customs duty rates to combined and tractors intended for industrial installation from 15% to 1%, as well as a reduction in customs rates to mobile and fixed phones from 15% to 5%. Of course, it should be said that this proposal requires the application of the rate of customs duty in the import of goods originating in the EU in accordance with the Law confirming the Transitional Agreement on Trade and Trade Affairs. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Republic of Administrative Taxes, the basic reason for the amendments and additions is, in fact, the necessity of prescribing the Republic's administrative fees charged under the Federal Administrative Tax Act. Essentially speaking, the amount of taxis and, of course, the new tariff proposed has been harmonised. The proposed law on temporary exemption from taxation on the income of citizens of certain types of income is designed not to determine and not pay income tax from the date of entry into force of this law by 31 December 2009 and, firstly, on the basis of interest on foreign exchange, savings and other deposits of citizens, of course, that this applies to the period, i.e. to the interest that has been made during that period, and to the income from capital gains on the basis of turnover on the basis of the value of the paper and the share in the property of the legal persons, of course, is understood for the income and transfer made or made in that period. This proposed legislative solution also foresees, which is highly positive, that farmers who pay taxes on cadastrian income are not taxed revenue on this basis for 2008 and 2009, thus extending the period of tax exemption from 2004 to 2007. The adoption of a legislative proposal on amendments and additions to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance is, in fact, the first thing that conditions are created for the application of the provisions of the Health Insurance Act, and that is, when it comes to paying contributions to those categories of natural persons for which the funds are allocated from the budget of the Republic of Serbia under the aforementioned legal provisions, and then, on the other hand, the level of the monthly base on which the contribution for compulsory health insurance is paid for that type of insurance or natural persons. The amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act confirmed what was already realised and what was already said, therefore, with the increase in pension amounts of 10% in October 2008. It is unfavourable that this increase will be the basis for payment in 2009 and will not change in that year. However, the hope remains that this increase will serve as a basis for the first next alignment. The amendments and additions to the Property Tax Act, which is the income of local self-government, regulates the most technical questions regarding the determination and collection of this income. Here, however, it should particularly highlight the legislator's intention to encourage the development of the capital market, since it proposes to exempt the securities from the value and interest in the legal person from the tax on inheritance and gift tax. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the SPS-JS parliamentary group will in principle support the proposed legislative solutions. The amendments we have submitted to the amendments to the Excise Act will be discussed when the debate begins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12220	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word has been given by the MP, Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12221	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister and representatives of the Ministry, the respected citizens of Serbia, we are witnessing that the muscle has also been donated to the budget. We now have a set of laws that should enable this budget to be successfully completed so that not only a set of good wishes, good intentions, well-advertised political promises remain. This set of laws as a parliamentary group, we from the NS will not be able to support above all because of the atmosphere that has been monitoring their adoption, which has been following the last few months of political life in Serbia, it is the universally announced global economic crisis. However, we have been monitoring the graduation of the announcement of this crisis. In the first wave, she frightened some tough Germans, some French, some European people, but we're told she'll get around us, which is normal. Then, it is said that it will not pass us by, but will strengthen us, for we are, in history, known, so that it does not kill us, it strengthens us. It's getting less and less of a situation, so it's kind of scaring us. Then it is said that this crisis will still reach us, so that I will not be very catastrophic myself, but I am afraid that many will also get to the bottom of the economy, especially with this unilateral application of European contracts. Now the crisis has started to advertise here and announce itself in the same way that in time, if you remember, one terrible ideology advertised its manifesto and the first sentence of this manifesto, known to all of us who used to study, so we had those mandatory subjects - sociology, self-government socialism and other sciences that we didn't need in our lives much, the first sentence that reads like this - Bauk circles Europe, bauk Communism. Now you have the same thing -- the bogeyman circles Europe, the bogeyman of the world crisis. What we here have safe when we adopt these laws we have on the Serbian political scene is great inflation. First of all, when these excises are adopted, we have to be honest, when the fuel price increases, it's not just going to be an increase in fuel prices, you know that by the nature of things, there has to be a general collection of all goods and services, because they simply include the price of fuel. This will reflect the lives of all citizens, and of course the most on the lives of those citizens living with the lowest incomes or living without income. This will reflect tremendously on agriculture, it will affect all segments of society. So we inflation, which with this crisis, which was supposed to bypass us first, and now it's still coming, we can't leave out. She won't get around us. We certainly have to say that this budget won't last, it's that the budget in this country is the biggest employer, not the economy. It's the economy that needs to be employed, not the budget. We are here and about the budget, and about the amendments, and about its adoption, advertising various amendments, all that the budget brings in as new jobs in the outside of business, struggled. We need to know and we need to tell the citizens - so the adoption of this set of laws begins one great individual battle for survival. Now what for the first time around New Year's Eves, about Christmas holidays for citizens, instead of ever-beautiful ever-beautiful desires, at least this year's going to be better than the previous one, because it was kind of a curator we used to refer to each other, it's always this message -- that this year is going to be a disaster for all of us. That's what's not good, but what looks like is true and that's what citizens have to face. So from this moment on, through the amendments, we will try to fight the laws to make life easier for the citizens. The opposition probably won't win that battle, probably that battle is very difficult for the government of this country, but at least it would be fair for the citizens to tell them what awaits them. By the way, I have an obligation to remind the present minister, and he to remind the competent ministers, those who deal with matters of agricultural pensions, they are the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture, who can influence it, to have a greeting, to give them a greeting. You know how our peasants are. They're polite, so when someone owes them something, they don't ask for that debt, they don't strike, but they salute it more than once to remember, so that he'll be reminded and maybe the debt will come back. So you have a greeting, and I won't be so polite. I'm going to ask them to answer the question -- when they're going to get that fourth part of the pension, or pension-based debt, that the government owes them. Consider that question a parliamentary question addressed from this address book. I really think that we should all advocate at this point, when it comes to amending and supplementing this law on PIO, these two members that are changing, it's that it can't be an increase of 10%, but we've talked a lot about it, in this way implemented. We also saw that it would be eaten. At least it would be a good intention if pensioners with the lowest pensions, we made it clear in the amendment, allowing their pensions to increase by at least 30%. That would ease the arrival of this monster, which is certain to be imminent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12222	He has the word MP Meso Omerovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12223	Dear Presidents, respected vice presidents, respected Minister Dulic, distinguished fellow MPs, countries around the world are concerned. She is right to say Mrs. My predecessor, dear colleague Zlata Djeric, this monster of the economic crisis that is spreading around the world, so all the countries around the world are concerned about the emergence of this global crisis and the uncertainty of how long this crisis will take and how it will end. In Serbia, it is planned to create such conditions in 2009 to enable more expansion of economic development, with greater investment, with a slight increase in wages and pensions and as much social security as possible. However, caution and seriousness require us to adopt restrictive financial plans and to set specific measures to preserve the creditworthiness and stability of the banking system and the capital markets in the year in which we cannot realistically count on greater growth in production, imports and exports, including restrictions on foreign investment and credit. At a session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, whose president I am, this morning we found that as well as salaries in the state sector, and pensions in 2009 will remain at last year's level, although at the level of October 2008, when pensions and pensions are increased by 10% and for the percentage of compliance with price developments and cost of life. Since, according to the proposed law, the one I want to talk about, about changes and additions to the 2009 PIO, will not bring pensions in line with the rise in prices to a small extent, from the point of view of preserving the real value of pensions and the purchasing power of pensioners and all other citizens, I think it is very important that there is no big increase in inflation and that the state, by measuring its monetary policy, keeps the rate of dinars under control. It is now expected and planned fiscal policy, through a reduction in public spending, through public sector control and control of wage and pension mass, that should contribute to the reduction of already mentioned inflation. When it comes to amendments and additions to the social security contribution law, this bill sets out the level of the basis for the payment of health insurance contributions for certain categories of population, which are paid out of the budget for health insurance, which my previous colleague, Đorđe Milicevic, also spoke of. This bill is the most closely linked to the Health Insurance Act, which we adopted in 2005, and which, I will remind you, in Article 22, determines what categories of population to be paid out of the budget. On this occasion, respected fellow Members of Parliament and citizens of Serbia, I would remind you of the categories of the population - children up to 15 years of life; women in pregnancy and 12 months after childbirth; persons over 65 years of age; persons with disabilities; persons receiving material security; users of permanent financial assistance; unemployed persons and persons of Roma nationality, who, unfortunately, do not have a permanent residence. For the sake of citizens, I would like to repeat that these categories of health insurance contributions are being paid out of the Serbian state budget, because the second contributor simply does not exist, and it is necessary that these people, who are the most vulnerable to sickness, are able to carry out their health care uninterruptedly. I'll give you an example. The Roma population had major problems, remember everyone, with the right to health care and treatment. Because of their residences in illegal settlements, they were unable to register their residence, and without residence, as we know, they could not get their ID cards, while without their ID card and other documents, which was an obstacle to the achievement of other vital personal rights, for example, such as the rights to education, employment, social protection, and even close rights, as I said, to health care. By passing the Health Insurance Act, Article 22 of 2005, the Ministry of Health significantly improved the achievement of the health care of the Roma population. However, we must be honest to the end. With these proposed amendments to the Social Contribution Act, which is now on the agenda as part of the joint debate, and recently adopted by the 2009 budget, the funds for those categories of population in Article 22 have been reduced from 4 billion dinars, as allocated in 2008 to 3 billion and 640 million dinars as allocated in the budget adopted before the New Year for 2009, given that the 2009 budget, as we already know, is restrictive. There is a belief that specific projects can compensate for the missing funds in the budget, which will be needed because it is a really large number of users of these funds. Unfortunately, respected fellow MPs, Serbia has also been denied for many available donor funds, as we still do not have EU structural funds available. Which is why we're not available, I think the sparrows on the branches know. The People's MPs of the Sandzak Democratic Party within the Group of MPs for European Serbia will vote for the proposed laws from the areas I spoke about, but also for the proposed amendments to the tax laws which mind in 2009, I will remind you, abolishing the foreign savings tax. It's an incentive measure. It is that part of the savings that was withdrawn in October, November and December and the possibility of it returning to banking flows, which would increase the credit potential of banks for lending primarily citizens and businesses, especially small businesses. The removal of interest on foreign exchange savings, along with the adoption of an increase in the guaranteed level of savings deposit to 50,000 euros, should also restore citizens' trust. The amendments to the tax laws also suggest the abolition of the sales tax on shares and securities of value. This measure will at the moment refer to a modest number of users, practically only those users who have achieved some profit by selling their shares, compared to the price at which they bought the shares in time. It's not a good climate for selling stock at the moment. We need to be realistic and honest with the citizens who chose us, and to ourselves. We all know that. If someone is still forced to sell those shares, then it's good that at least he doesn't have to cut his profits by the amount of this tax. It is also proposed to abolish income tax on agriculture and forestry, as incomes for agricultural households are very modest anyway. Sandzak Democratic Party MPs will vote for the adoption and application of the trade agreement. As they will be reflected, it remains to be seen and to respond in due time to any phenomenon that does not please our economy. I hope that in the future of our work, we, as parliamentarians, will be the ones who insist and demand a timely response if unwanted effects arise. We feel that we are obliged to do everything and to create conditions for applying the standards of the developed world to whom we are seeking, but also because of ourselves, because of the possibility of using pre-accession, structural and investment funds of the EU, because I am afraid that, without these international investments, we are not able to start the economy and economy of our country. It has been announced that the government of the Republic of Serbia has established a comprehensive programme of measures providing for 50 billion-dollar production loans for those who retain unchanged levels of employees, then state investments in infrastructure and energy plants, and what has rightly been said much about when we adopted the budget, savings in the state. At the very end, I think, dear fellow MPs, that Serbia has a chance, if we really commit ourselves now to achieving the objectives that are being stated -- production, export and savings. The conditions for economic recovery and development must certainly be internal stability and unity in the implementation of state policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12224	I thank Mr. Omerovic. The word has a vice president, Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12225	Dear Madam Minister, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, as you know, the adopted budget provides for approximately two-thirds of the budget to be allocated to the salaries. This means that one third of the budget is intended for the state to justify its existence. With one-third of the budget, everything else needs to be financed, which is not in the public sector's pay area. They say the budget is restrictive. The budget is restrictive because it is largely restrictive with regard to those who should fill the budget. What does this restriction consist of? Let's just say that agriculture is less foreseen, in terms of seven billion dinars, compared to last year. What does that mean? This means that agriculture is tied to legs and arms, and agriculture has to run a marathon. Why does agriculture have to run a marathon? Because we have this proposal for a customs tariff law, whose Article 5 provides that customs rates for agricultural products imported from abroad should be completely abolished with one dynamic. In this same farm, which we have cut down those seven billion dinars, we also predict that we will completely lift its subsidies. We do not remove everything immediately, but we have already started at a very fast pace by reducing subsidies, and yet we expect these agricultural producers to produce and be on the market equal competitors, equal participants with those who import their products into our country. What's this about? The thing is that our agricultural producer, first of all, is Vojvodina's biggest blow because we know that Vojvodina's cereal is Serbia, Vojvodina is the one where this agricultural producer will not have subsidies or if it does, it will have a minimum, and if it has a minimum, it may not even get it, it must produce at some dumped prices, in order to be competitive with those who place their goods abroad on the Serbian market. Therefore, there will be no subsidies, unlike that agricultural producer abroad, a producer from Europe, who has three types of subsidies - national, export, dumped subsidies, subsidies that enable him to place his goods and sell much cheaper goods than can be placed by a agricultural producer in Serbia, or Vojvodina. Therefore, that is the restrictiveness of the budget. We tie our feet to agriculture, and we expect a marathon to run, to jump further, to feed our citizens, a business branch that has been pretty tough so far because it has survived a lot of things in the last 20 years, we condemn to a simple member of the 5th of this bill. If all of this is taken into account, and the plans and programmes of this government in terms of agriculture and agriculture are read, then there is a large disproportion. I'd like to read to you from the budget's explanation of the seven objectives of the government in terms of agriculture. It says -- it envisions developing the competitiveness of the agricultural sector, food security, living standards support, sustainable rural development, improving the environment, preparing Serbia's agriculture for EU integration, preparing domestic support for agriculture. We are very well preparing our domestic agriculture to join the EU. The explanation that we are doing this precisely for that reason, we are abolishing all these subsidies, we are applying a unilaterally temporary trade agreement, to allow easier access to pre-accession funds, easier access to foreign investment, foreign money, donations and so forth, is a little strange. Why do we do that if we already have a medium-developed agriculture in Vojvodina that is trying, there are people who are willing to work, who are already doing, who have experience, why destroy it for some future opportunities that are extremely uncertain, and I think the government is aware that there is a global economic crisis after all. She may be aware of this, but she is not doing something concrete, realistic and rational to prepare this economy in Serbia and agriculture in Vojvodina to make this global economic crisis easier and more painless. The LDP welcomes the restrictiveness of the budget. However, we cannot welcome the fact that this restriction solely comes down to the fact that, on the one hand, we end some taxes, some taxes, some taxes, and we boast of it -- that we allow someone to breathe easier to those who are interested in reducing these taxes, taxes, and on the other hand we do some things that the whole burden of domestic and foreign crises shifts to citizens, to those who pay taxes, who work, who fill that budget, and yet I am undermining, fill that budget to justify the existence of a country with one-third of its own budget. With that one-third of the budget, the state has to finance a lot of things to survive the economy, to make the economy work, to be able to give those funds. However, it is out of the question that this will not achieve the objective set out in these laws, by following laws that are literally part of the budget, or by achieving the objective of this budget and by which objectives such a restrictive budget is also explained, which is to survive, to produce in some way, to wait for this crisis to go through, because in every step of every way we do it to die, to simply destroy what else is produced and done in this country. It's mostly agriculture. So, the story is that these subsidies are a bad thing, that these subsidies are, I'm talking about agriculture again, something that burdens this country, I don't think it holds water, and it can't be an excuse to abolish and reduce these subsidies, to make it impossible for the economy to function properly. How can we expect some results, if we do everything possible to avoid these results, and first of all, by reducing, we hear excises, we don't predict an increase in the excise duty on coffee, but we're increasing some other excise duties, say, on oil, even though the price of oil on the world market has fallen, so it would be normal and rational for both this oil and that gas to be expensive, and in some ways to reduce production, because it's normal for the transport costs that require the use of that oil and that gasoline to affect the price. On the other hand, we're removing some benefits that, if anything, we're at least helping people that even though they're not going to get rich in their production, we're going to at least let them have some sense that the state cares about them and that in some way they can be competitive with other producers, first of all on the side of the manufacturers I think. Therefore, the LDP, as it could not support this budget either, because we believe that this budget has no vision, has no plan, no programme, which also shows these following laws that are on the agenda today, if all that stands for what I just mentioned, then there is no reason to support these accompanying laws that should fill the budget, and are clearly filling it up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12226	Thank you. The word is Mr. Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12227	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Ministers somewhere in absentia, in very short lines, I will explain why we will support the proposals of these laws. Given that these laws are in fact something that follows the budget, given that Serbia's budget for next year has been adopted, the Budget Law, given that this budget law has already taken into account the effects of these laws that we are talking about today, given a lot of positive messages by adopting these laws, I would like to say very briefly, and these have been explained by my fellow MPs in more detail, we will support the proposal of all seven laws. Just for a little while to comment on some of them. The Law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act is not the question, in my opinion, tariffs, that is the question of whether it will go into unilateral application of the Trade and Trade Agreement with the European Union? That's the question. If you're going to do it, then this is a logical consequence. The government has defined itself to such a step, it is the right of the government and I support it. On the other hand, it costs a budget of 20 billion dinars. The government has been defined to provide them in another way: cigarette excises, oil derivatives and beer. We just heard concrete data, and I don't want to keep your time on it, for the simple reason it's logical to take it from there. It's something that's about the effect of about 16 billion dinars. The government has been defined to impose order when it comes to administrative fees, first of all, that part that was in the jurisdiction of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, but also the effects of that part, as you have called here, non-tax revenues, are quite large, are quite high expectations, something that can be vaj. The effect, too, changes to the laws on the exemption of taxes on certain things, such as interest on foreign exchange savings, such as trade in shares, such as the 2008 and 2009 agricultural cadastre tax, as a continuation since 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007, is also something the government sees as an incentive in the first part of foreign savings. Why? Because this country needs foreign savings. At one point, it was brought into doubt, the moment the economic crisis stepped into Serbia and it was an incentive to them. For 2009, there's this thought about whether it should be for 2010, I don't think we should throw it away. It's simple, when this year ends this year we'll see what it'll look like in 2010, whether we should encourage it then or maybe, it's not very small money, as far as I've seen it, it's already a few billion dinars, we'll see how this goes on. The last question, often the term "freezing pensions" is used, and it is, and so needs to be explained to citizens. This government is socially responsible to the government, it showed this when it increased pensions 10%, because it inherited a very bad and low pension. For that second increase, there is no possibility in the following year, and that should be made clear to the public. No, next year he's supposed to survive, but he's not giving up on that goal. I'm asking the other way around, what if it wasn't for that 10%? The most catastrophic situation would be pensioners, as they would receive 2-3% on that low base in April, they would receive 5-6% on that low base in October. They're even better off, conditionally speaking, than employees and other categories of citizens. They're given the possibility of increasing as much inflation as they are, and it's planned somewhere to be 8%. Of course, the state needs to take care of that category of population. I often listen to advocacy and that the state pays special attention to those pensioners with low incomes. I'd support it if the state could find those funds, but as a measure of social protection, not as a security system, because it's no longer an insurance system. I support it as a measure of social protection. Just as I support the government's need to take care of the employees or, above all, employees, and above all, of not being fired from work, and then just getting paid. I call on the government, as a representative of the ruling majority, to do everything to establish and continue, however you will, social dialogue with employers and trade unions, because without social dialogue, it will not be possible to endure everything that awaits us next year. Not to be too long, we will support the proposals of all these seven laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12228	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the debate on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia, when a man reads your bill, he wonders if what you're doing makes any sense, if you know what time we live in, if you know what's surrounding us right now, if you know what's going on outside, outside of these rooms, and the National Assembly and other state bodies. Of all these laws that you have proposed for this agenda, the only one suitable for such a situation is the income tax law of citizens, when it comes to the foreign exchange roles of citizens in business banks and incomes derived from these roles. I understand that because of the need to increase the liquidity of banks and to maintain the financial market as much as possible when it comes to foreign money. But I can't understand that at a time like this, we have a bill on amendments and amendments to the Customs Tariff Act. The logical consequence of the Customs Tariff Act is, in fact, the unilateral application of the free trade agreement between Serbia and the European Union. In response to that law, you have made another law on amendments to the Excise Act, to succeed in some kind of balance in the revenue side of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The two laws are actually the reason for calling this session of the Serbian Parliament. Let's look at the logical consequences of these two laws, so let's start with the Customs Tariff Act and the rate. When a man looks at this law, when he looks at what is changing, it comes to a simple conclusion that he will take cheap cars, phones and mobile phones, and on the condition that the goods are purchased from EU territory. These are, then, the reliefs you make for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. To make up for that budget deficit, he's gonna have to collect something. You tried first with the introduction of coffee excises, but apparently that lobby present in all governments since 5 October managed to finish the job so that coffee excises don't increase, as he managed to finish the job so as not to introduce fiscal cash registers to lawyers, not to introduce fiscal cash registers to doctors, not to introduce fiscal cash registers to dentists etc. So, there is still a certain group of people on the scene who create laws and the government of the Republic of Serbia as well as how the government should work in the interests of citizens. What's he gonna pick up? They'll collect all kinds of motor gasoline, collect all kinds of diesel fuel, collect liquid oil gas for motor vehicles. It was insane to even make one such budget projection for 2009 when it was known that prices of crude oil, due to the global economic crisis, were falling. What do you mean, even with these excise increases, to achieve a deficit in the budget that will result from the adoption of a law on changing customs tariffs and rates? It's extremely difficult. Let's see what Serbia has. So, we have cheaper cars from imports, we have cheaper phones from imports, we have cheaper mobile phones from imports, we have taps on the shoulder and thanks to the head of the EU, because with one of the policies that we're running from this poor girl, you want to admit it or not, we help them save their markets and their industry. What else do we have? We have laws that we've passed, which should give citizens one particular security for deposits that are in banks. Why didn't you tell those same citizens that Raiffeisen Bank, in late December, illegally, without the consent of the National Bank of Serbia, brought out a billion euros from the state? What didn't you inform the public about? Where did you get that billion euros from that bank? Well, of those foreign reserves we've been trying to collect from those foreign currency roles that we're providing deposits to. Why don't you finally put this bank and all the other banks under control, start doing what they're supposed to do and how they work to be in the countries where they come from? All these problems that Serbia now has, at this time, and in the coming period, there will be even more, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will not solve any changes to the Rules of Procedure, nor a reduction in the number of MPs, when we already have only three vice-presidents of the government who spend the same money as 250 MPs. And it won't help any of those major state agencies that don't do anything except spend budget money. Nor will it help you that this government has any problem that it blames the National Assembly. What can help us is to stabilise the goods and financial market in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and we can only do that if we stimulate production, if we subsidise exports, and not if we have one foreign investment agency and promotion of exports, which does nothing but spend money. Of these savings and expensive projects that Dinkic is constantly financing and paying, which never comes to life, except that the analysis of what would benefit them be, we focus on stimulating exports, only in this way can we stabilise both the commodity and the financial market and hope that we will get through this global economic crisis as cheaply as possible. But the problem is with you, gentlemen of the ruling majority, because the question is whether you know it, and if you know it, will you. That's the problem with all these laws you're proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12230	MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12231	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat what the distinguished representatives have said in favor of this set of laws that are on the agenda. I'll say, it seems to me, something that, by the opinion of the SPO, is important, which is not said. With regard to excise duties, it should be said that the concept system of excise duty does not differ as it is set up in EU countries, but that excise duties are at a much lower level than in EU countries. The answer is simple. Cigarettes, especially high-quality cigarettes, beer, maybe there was room to cover and some other drinks with these measures, of course, aren't something everyone consumes... (President: Mr. Krassic, please do not disturb the Messenger as he speaks.) No, it gives very useful advice. I think that any further explanation is in favour of the fact that excises are being increased too much. On the other hand, there was also talk about the contribution rate for pension-inhabited insurance. Our policy, in this sense, is somewhere in the middle of countries in the environment, developed countries and EU countries. We know that probably the greatest burden and the biggest problem in terms of pension-inhabited insurance is what burdens our farmers, since on an annual level the amount is about 53,000 dinars, plus 17 dinars and a few thousand dinars based on health insurance. Then it's very easy to calculate, one five-member or six-member farming family, which is a burden on agriculture at an annual level. Secondly, our customs rates, regardless of all objections, are still high. Of course, as a country in transition, we are now entering a transitional period that will surely last for five, six or seven years. It is a period of adjustment and customs rates and excise duties for all the countries that are now full of EU members. What we are looking forward to as members of the SPO is that the reduced customs duty on imports of tractors and combines, which we think is very important for our agriculture. It's already been done before with a customs stop for trucks and buses and the effects of such moves we've seen before. As someone who comes from the city of a car, the former and the future, it is certain that we might be able to object to a reduction in customs duties on imports of second-hand cars, but we will not do it because of two facts. First, it is true that the situation in our economy is such that technology is obsolete, that products are largely unquality, that we have a decline in exports and competitiveness, that, especially during sanctions, we have largely lost, apart from the market, and technological development. But this country, both businessmen and farmers must be absolutely aware that we must prepare ourselves for a period of competition, that we must be fully prepared for a competition match, not only within our country, but also on the EU market, and that this is one of the measures in force in EU countries, or we expect an even greater reduction in customs rates for imports of second-hand cars in the future. But that doesn't mean that, first of all, my Kragujevci should worry about it, because according to what is currently going on in the town of Kragujevac, regardless of all the circumstances that are extremely difficult in the environment and in the whole world, everything seems to be going well so far and we believe that awareness that no one can produce cars on the basis of subsidies anymore must have reached and reached my fellow citizens. Secondly, here we heard a number of criticisms at the expense of abolishing the subsidies to agriculture. It is true that the agricultural budget for this year is reduced, such as the reduced budget on all other branches, but it is not true that subsidies have been abolished. A series of incentive measures exist, from fruit orchards, from the restoration of agricultural land, from the subsidisation of the digging of wells, irrigation, etc. Of course, it is far from what we as a state and society should seek, but the ultimate goal, as far as agriculture is concerned, is that we have farmers as we have in EU countries. This measure, which is an extension of measures already taken before, not to tax cadastar income from agriculture and forestry, is something that is fully supported by the SPO. It's definitely the fact that our tax policy is changing. It's definitely true that our customs policy is changing, and it's true that politics will change according to excise duties, but I think that, in addition to all the arguments that have been against this new policy, I think the arguments that are in favor of this change will take a little bit more weight and we'll see the effects of this policy in a few months. Therefore, the SPO, as a member of the SES list, will support such legal solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12232	MP Arsen Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12233	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, we have before us a set of financial laws, i.e. by following the laws necessary for the implementation and implementation of the 2009 budget. I will refer most to the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act. At first, I would like to say that the DSS parliamentary group will vote against that law. There are more reasons why we will vote against this law, because we think it is a completely wrong policy for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to impose additional burden on citizens, but also on businesses, by increasing excise duties, by increasing the Republic of administrative fees, instead of going to reduce public spending, to more restrictive spending of budget funds, the government is resorting to some unpopular measures and burdening its citizens and businesses. The proposal for this law is due to the government's wrong decision to unilaterally apply the trade agreement. The unilateral application of the trade agreement will result in a reduction or elimination of customs duties for a large number of products. This will lead to a decrease in revenues in the 2009 budget of around 300m euros. Not to mention the consequences that our economy will face, which is not yet ready for the competition, which will be in an unfavourable situation when it faces far more developed and competitive EU countries, and especially will be affected by agriculture, as the elimination or reduction of customs Serbian market will be flooded with EU agricultural products, which, due to large subsidies, will be significantly higher than we do and because of a higher level of development, will be cheaper than domestic agricultural products, leading our agricultural producers to an extremely difficult situation. To return to the lack of financial resources that will arise by abolishing customs duties in the 2009 budget. In fact, the government planned to make up for this shortfall by proposing an increase in excise duty on gasoline, diesel fuel, beer, liquid oil gas for motor vehicles. Those increases will be drastic. We already have a percentage of the highest share of excise duties in the total price of oil derivatives, which means gasoline and diesel fuel and any additional increase is completely unrealistic. We have one paradoxical situation - to reduce or abolish the customs duties for luxury cars, for luxury products, and increase excise duties, or the government proposes to increase excise duties on gasoline, diesel, beer. It is a commodity of broad consumption, it does not represent any luxury and by increasing excise duties on these products will inevitably result in an increase in the price of these products on the market and it will affect a wide range of populations, especially the poorest. What is good in this law is that the government gave up increasing the excise on coffee compared to the bill that was with the 2008 budget. That's when the government proposed to increase excise duties and to get coffee from 30% to 40%. The DSS MPs then wrote several amendments that proposed not to increase excise duties on coffee. The government then rejected the amendments, explaining it would disrupt budget filling and disrupt 2009 budget revenues. Just ten days after our amendments were rejected, the government came out with a proposal not to increase the excise duty on coffee. I doubt it's due to the concern of citizens, I think it's due to the pressure of some lobby groups. In any case, it's a good thing there's not gonna be an increase in the excise on coffee, which is why we're increasing the price of coffee on our market. Our parliamentary group has tabled several amendments to the proposal for this Excise Act which we have proposed to be Article 3. The bill is deleted. In fact, Article 3 refers to the increase in excise duty on gasoline, diesel and fuel and liquid oil gas, because we believe that the government already has the authority to comply with the level of excise duty with the inflation rate. We believe that any additional increase in excise duties would be unrealistic and inappropriate and would further burden both the economy and the citizens. I hope the government accepts our amendments in the interest of Serbian citizens by the day of voting. Otherwise, as I said, the DSS will vote against these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12234	Mr. Dragan Stevanović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12235	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, we have before us a set of seven laws whose importance and importance obviously the least understanding of those who have even proposed it to the National Assembly for adoption. One such conclusion can first and foremost be drawn from the fact that today Mrs Kalanovic, as a representative of the government, spent three minutes talking about the set of all seven laws. Tonight, unfortunately, Mr. Dulic is collateral damage to such indolence and irresponsibility as the legislator of this law according to the law itself, that is, the whole set of laws. But, okay. I think the set of laws that are before us today and that we are discussing in a united debate is a set that can be roughly divided into two parts. One makes up those laws that are indirectly or not at all subject to an unreasonable decision on unilateral application of the SAA, and the other ones are certainly directly bound or formed as a result of the adoption of such an unreasonable decision by the government of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Today, unfortunately, by the government's representatives, and it seems to me at all in parliament, the least words were on one law that should certainly be mentioned, which is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the property tax law. Why do I insist on this law? I insist because, in principle, the revenues generated by these interventions are the revenues of local self-government. The government's attitude today according to this law and the fact that in 15 seconds, they have commented on this law, speaks and points to the fact that the government is committed to this concept of equal regional development on the one hand, i.e. to the fact that the government is ready in one serious way to strengthen the capacity of local self-government throughout Serbia. If you analyse what is happening today by local self-government in Serbia, you can find only the following: debates, shifts, appointments and instability. Do you, let's not say I don't overdo two-thirds, but half the local self-government doesn't deal with the problem it's supposed to be dealing with. It would be very good for the representatives of the ministry who have proposed this law to pass through Serbia and, instead of destroying local self-government, to take and to analyse how many local self-government and municipal administrations a local self-government unit is to the end, which will collect in the coming year, or to do jobs to secure income through property tax. The fact is, first of all, the state was late in the business. They were both late in technical terms and in terms of providing a programme for local self-government, which will be done in a quality and adequate way both in organisational and in any other sense. She did nothing to develop and impose and awareness on local self-government about the need for a comprehensive handling of this issue, i.e. by collecting taxes on this basis, in order to economically strengthen local self-government capacities across Serbia. The government is an important VAT, the biggest revenue in the budget, the biggest item on the revenue side. That's what she does. All other revenues that are not directly income of the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. which do not remain in the Republic, then come somehow in the shadow, in the margin, and are either engaged or not, and for this reason local self-government suffers. It's not just that the government is irresponsible to local self-government. A few days ago I spoke here, there are some other incomes that have been defined by law and belong to local self-government, but the government unfortunately adopts them by regulations and leaves them at its disposal, and these are revenues based on the use of natural resources in the territory of units of local self-government. The second law, which should certainly be mentioned and not directly related as a result of an unreasonable decision on unilateral application of the SAA, is certainly a republican administrative tax. If you implement this law and go through the reasoning of the bill, you will again accept, or recognize the irresponsibility of the Government, both these and several governments before this, in relation to solving these problems. It says here that the final procedures, i.e. the charges of services performed by the state administration on the basis of their responsibilities and defined as SRJ's revenues, i.e. the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, are now being introduced as revenues from the Republic of Serbia. I'm not talking about money. I'm just talking about the fact that it's only now being defined through legal matter and regulated as the income of the Republic of Serbia. When you go one step further in an explanation, what do you come across? Watch out now, certain taxes have not been harmonised and agreed since 2001, so here we go. When you go to the next sentence, it says that republican administrative fees are agreed on an annual basis. If you do, let's just say two taxes, since 2001, and let's say that you've agreed on at least an inflation rate at an annual level, figure out how much of this would be in the mass to date, how much money on that basis would be disowned by the state. You can't argue with the fact that every citizen will increase the rate of inflation to understand and accept. For that favor he has to pay and which state he gives him, he won't cause a problem to pay. After seven years, we will coordinate some fees in financial terms, i.e. in terms of their amount. This is about one irresponsibleness, this is about non-domestic business, this is about the fact that this country, which is run by the irresponsible, has given up large amounts of money for all seven years based on some taxis. That money could, I sincerely hope, have been used and directed for some clever purposes, because obviously, and that's what I said and when we talked about the budget debate, there's very little funding for agriculture, little resources for science, little funding in the budget for the next year, this country predicts planning and building. There's Mr. Minister, I mean it on purpose, and certainly because of the ambitions that he said this country has, I'd like it to really be that way, we're going to need a lot of funds to spend and make use of. Now I come to that part of this set of laws, which determines, for the third time, an unreasonable decision on unilateral application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The right to such a finding gives me the fact that a good part of the government has been against such a decision and against the application of the agreement, but unfortunately the political compromises on which the government is built, such as it is, forces individuals in the government to be prone to decisions as they are and which are certainly not in the interest of this country and of each of us who live in this country, working and wants to create. There are certainly some over-ambitious intentions, which is that this year the state provides over 640 billion dinars through tax procedures on the revenue side of the budget, which is very ambitious in relation to the economic environment, our domesticity, in which Serbia is, to the opportunities that will be reflected from the global economic crisis in Serbia, our fallen economy, and all the consequences that will produce a unilateral application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Of these tax revenues, around 340 billion dinars should be generated through VAT. I think it's too ambitious, even I think the finance minister thinks it's too ambitious, because a few days ago she seemed to have told me, that if there's no realisation of the revenue side's budget based on VAT, the government will do an analysis and therefore define that the possible VAT rate is increasing. It's a nonsens, it's something we don't need and what this country certainly is in the year ahead of us not only doesn't need, but it can't decide. It must not be decided, if it is easier and it will implore you, and because of the fact that the European Commission and the IMF suggest that the VAT rate should be knocked down rather than increased. They repeat once again, when the state is in crisis times, it does not increase the tax rate but increases the tax base and the state needs to spend energy and make efforts to secure the largest base in the coming year, which will certainly be difficult. As far as customs duties are concerned, you are counting that, compared to the 2008 budget rebalance, revenues will be lower by 19.6 billion just on the basis of this and that assessment alone, the question is how realistic it is, because no one can assess the drop in imports in the coming year because demand is going to fall on the domestic market. These are assumptions that no one can safely look into. As far as excise duty is concerned, you plan on increasing excise duty, tobacco and gasoline, increasing revenue by 14 billion and something. The economic crisis will certainly define and condition that the demand for this slave falls, so I think nothing great next year, at least when it comes to this, can't expect us. To return to this Stabilisation and Association Agreement or unilateral application. You know, I can understand Europe and the European community, we're for them, poor and little, but certainly the market, and I can't argue with the right to behave like that. But I can't understand that the government in the time we're in and in the year ahead of us is making one of these unserious and economically irresponsible decisions in the national economy. Europe has shown for who knows what time it is: when it comes to Serbia and its relationship with Serbia, the two basic principles on which the EU is built are, for who knows which time, when the economy is affected. These are the principles of subsidiarity and reciprocity. This is both an economic and legal precedent, for the agreement to be signed by the two sides and then one to decide on its unilateral application, and that to its own damage. Europe doesn't mind, and the government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't mind, and then the government gets angry when some of the heavy and fierce accusations it deserves go to its burden. As for the principle of subsidiarity, someone today spoke from this pay phone, not one, more MPs spoke about pre-accession funds. Let them say tonight or in the debate in particular, which is why the pre-accession funds are open to you, to which funds from the European Union will be provided for the unilateral application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, to raise and build standards for certain sectors and certain areas. Of course they won't. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, you've definitely decided to do a bad thing when it comes to national economic interest. In this, unfortunately, we still cannot prevent you with at least the figures, we will try in the debate in particular to point to all the shortcomings and failures of the laws ahead of us, and if we can no longer, we expect you to at least in the coming year more realistically, more objectively and with more rationality and reason talk about economic opportunities and everything that will expect us in the economic sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12236	The word is Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, we have before us a set of laws that we have united today as a common principle search. Of course, following the budget implementation laws, which was passed in the last second last year, and much remains unclear, how the budget will be filled, what will be applied, and in all these points that are connected we have many unknowns, a lot of things that will burden the citizens of Serbia in the most drastic way. Speaking of the draft laws and amendments on customs tariffs, this is already all unknown to the unilateral application of the SAA, if anyone in the ruling coalition, Mr. Minister, is here today a representative of the government, thinking about what will happen to agricultural producers in Serbia. I am truly very sorry that Mrs Kalanovic is not sitting here right now, to ask her, since it is from these parts, what about producers around Tristenik, Ribnik, Donji and Gornja, Počekovina and in all these parts, producers who are so famous throughout the country and those old Yugoslavia for the production of peppers. These people have had a catastrophic year, never worse, and I'm afraid this one-sided application of the SAA will soon be for them, and when it is a birth year, the big consequences, because it will be imported without any control, will be applied to something that will certainly endanger both agricultural producers and those who produce, small and medium-sized enterprises etc. Right now in the King, all the great giants don't work, they don't work "Magnochrom", they don't do the car factory, they don't do "Jashen," and I have to tell you that they're slowly on the exhale, and they're producers, small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in the wood industry, because you've been unnaturally holding one price of the raw materials of the balvana, specifically 85 dinars, and the course was 75. These people are in total chaos right now, they don't have any support from the state, and that's one big problem. People have invested huge funds. There's 50, 100, 150 people, times four families, so 500 people from every small producer are at risk. I'm not gonna name these people here, it wouldn't be right for their production, because it's still not right to talk about it, but I'm gonna tell you that every day they're practically firing, some 50, 60 to 100 workers. Of course, above all, those who are at a certain time and those who are through youth cooperatives, etc., are threatened, but there will be a turn for those who are in constant work. New Serbia has submitted amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. We will try to correct through the discussion in particular something that should have been shown in the bill itself. New Serbia very often submits amendments and eventually turns out, by accepting these amendments, that we have been right from the beginning and we hope that this time the legislator will have in mind. Of course, first of all, we think that the transfer of absolute rights in the purchase of real estate tax needs to be reduced to 1.5%. I think the SRS did it too, and it is unacceptable for the property tax to set that price at the end of the year, at the end of the year, rather than be done on the very cover of the sale contract in court. Since time is slowly running out, Madam Chairman, just a few sentences. And on the other laws that are on the agenda, which are united here, we will have what to say, we have submitted amendments, so in the debate in particular we will try to fix these laws that are not good and, of course, we will not be able to support and vote for them because of all of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12238	The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. There are three minutes left for your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12239	Dear Presidents, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP would like once more and for the people's MPs and the public of Serbia to warn and remind why we today, among other things, have on the agenda a draft law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, i.e. why we are talking about a unilateral application of the trade agreement with the European Union. It is mainly because the Serbian government, or those people who have made certain commitments by signing the Association and Stabilisation Agreement, are not doing their job, or because they have not completed co-operation with The Hague tribunal and because the Serbian government has not prepared a number of laws necessary to join the EU. Listening to the MPs today, it turns out that Serbian citizens should pay for the incompetence of the Serbian government, i.e. by reading the excise law, i.e. the law on republican administrative fees, we see that all the burden of the crisis, i.e. the incompetence of the Serbian government, is on the burden of Serbian citizens. Because how else do you explain the increase in excise duties on oil derivatives, if a special tax regime for oil and gas companies could be introduced earlier, that is to say, the revenue that these companies generate in relation to oil and gas. Also, why has the Serbian government not introduced before, that is, increased the so-called "Serb Government". The percentage of the mining rent? In all European countries, this percentage of the mining rent is between 20% and 30%, and we have three percent. We lose between $60 million and $100 million a year. In this way we could also take the burden of the economic crisis, i.e. unilateral implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, not to the citizens, but to those companies that are monopolies anyway. Also, when we talk about the proposal for a law on temporary exemption from taxation on the income tax of citizens of certain types of income, LDP will support this law. However, this law comes quite late on the one hand, and on the other hand, this law should follow some other laws that should allow businesses, especially private entrepreneurs in poor municipalities, that is, in municipalities devastated by the Serbian government's decision to survive this year in 2009, or to cut taxes for these private entrepreneurs. It's not the same when, for example, it's the same thing. Taxi drivers in these devastated municipalities, such as Priboj, Sjenica and others, pay 10,000 dinars a month, as well as those taxi drivers who do so in Belgrade or in some major city, or other private entrepreneurs. Also, the LDP cannot support the proposal for a law on republican administrative fees, as there is an increase in a number of these taxis. I would like, in accordance with Articles 225 and 226 when we talk about the Republic's administrative fees, to get a reply from the competent ministries on the basis of which and on the basis of which the regulations of students studying in Bosnia, or in Sarajevo, Foca, Pala, Montenegro, have to postpone the military deadline to surrender to the diplomatic and consular representation of Serbia, where they pay a republican fee of 120 converting marks, or 50 to 60 euros. Where is this tax in the old law, that is, the proposal for a new law? Can't these students, as they have so far, confirm that they're handing over in their place of residence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12240	Thank you. The word is Dr. Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12241	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will focus mainly on the proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariffs Act. First of all, I am sorry that right now the minister has come out, but I will ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Ilic, to try to make technical corrections within the Ministry of Finance, because technical errors have been made in the proposal for amending this law, which applies to customs, that is Article 4b, tariffs in heading 010511100 and heading 010511900. I must regret to conclude that I have not been able to detect these technical errors in this article, but today I have received from the Business Association of the Animal Control Community, which informs me of the technical inadequacy that has been made here under the amendment of this law, which refers to livestock production. Since I am in office of the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, then on this basis I was referred to, but there was simply no time and space to make an amendment change, and the essence of the change that you have proposed is to introduce customs duties on chickens that are being kept with us. On the other hand, the essence of the change, which is also proposed, is to free the customs of chickens of so-called grandfatherly and parental flocks, meaning those we do not cultivate in our country. However, here in reason it was given that the essence of it was, but the tariffs you offered don't solve it. So I ask you to try, in the context of this debate, if you already had the will to change it, to formulate it so - that simple customs tariff 010511100 and customs tariff 010511900, means that it reduces customs duty from 20 to 1%, because it means chickens of grandfather and parent flocks, meaning those which we do not produce, and that customs duties are introduced, because that's also the desire to change the law to customs tariffs, 0105119100 and 0105119990, because they are so-called consumable chickens, means chickens that when they grow up they wear eggs for consumption. It's about so-called tow broiler chickens, so the chickens we use as chicken meat in people's diet, which are animals that are grown in our country and by the logic of things should have customs burden. (The President warns the MPs) If he has a good will, in order to solve the problems of the livestock association, especially those who import chickens for parental flocks, because we don't have grandfather flocks, but only parent flocks, but we import from other countries, we raise parents here, and then from these parents they get further descendants that are used either for these chickens or for carrying eggs for consumption. The second thing I want to talk about is precisely the area of agricultural production because it is true that, by unilaterally or by introducing the procedure or by effectiveing the Trade Agreement, agricultural production will, in fact, be at risk, because most of the customs burdens, and on the other hand, it is the entry into force of the release of customs duties essentially for agricultural products. Just two weeks ago, we talked here about the agrarian budget, and we found that it was significantly smaller than in the previous years, and that in 2009, the incentive for agricultural production was reduced. This will put our agricultural production at risk, especially with the effect of this interim agreement and the reduction of customs duties, to a significantly greater extent, of various agricultural products in our country, which are more competitive in price than our agricultural products, which can further affect the prices of these agricultural products than our agricultural producers and the total volume of agricultural production. Madam Chairman, I would like to ask you to do something in accordance with Article 104(3) and in accordance with Article 106, at least warn the MPs of the SRS. I think, as a university professor, if nothing, you know what it'd be like to have your students pounding at you during class. I'm also a colleague of yours, a university professor. As you can see, I can't be distracted. I probably wouldn't want to talk to you either, but it's not pleasant in this environment to talk to. You don't dare, I'm not talking nonsense here, I'm saying something important to our agricultural production. You're not even gonna answer the bell.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12242	Mr. Mashic, I've been ringing my colleagues from the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12243	You didn't ring the bell. You from that position see every moment that slams here in the bench and you won't give anyone a warning for all this time. It's not right and it's not right. You won't fix the climate in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12244	My friend, I wanted to tell you that they listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12245	If you think our mandates are wrong, do whatever you can to take away from us, but this is a disgrace and a disgrace to this assembly and to you who have been chairing to allow more than three months for some MPs to behave like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12246	I ask the MPs of the SRS not to interfere with a speaking messenger. Your colleague can tell you that everyone listens very carefully, much more carefully than anyone else. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12247	You didn't absolutely comfort me, but it doesn't matter, I'll keep going. Thus, the Stabilisation Agreement in the area of agriculture defines the EU and Serbia's mutual concessions in agricultural and food trade through the signing of standards and procedures in production and trade. The EU concessions essentially mean that in trade with the EU, as regards agricultural products, almost all customs and duties are abolished, which have the same fact of imports of agricultural and food products originating in Serbia, except for the following groups of products - this is live hero, June meat, and the quota is 8,700 tonnes; then sugar with a quota of 180,000 tonnes; then wine with a quota of 63,000 hectolitres, of which 53,000 hectolitres in vessels of two litres and 10,000 hectolitres in vessels above two liters; then fish and fish products of fish, and that trout, live, frozen, dried, where a quota of duty-free is established 15 tonnes per year, and a colorful, live, fresh, frozen and dried, where a duty-free quota of 60 tonnes per year is established. So these products from our country from the EU will be exported in limited quantities -- over these quotas they will be customsated. As regards concessions granted by our country, more importantly, concessions for 1,183 customs positions have been agreed, listed in four groups of agricultural products. They're determined by annexes. In Annex two, where full liberalisation is introduced by way of force of the Agreement, this annex covers 551 positions of customs tariffs, and a group of products, mainly not manufactured in the Republic of Serbia or produced in small quantities, i.e. cattle and livestock, horse and donkey fresh meat, geese and duck livers, special types of fructose cheeses, mycelies for the production of mushrooms, southern fruit, raw coffee, hard wheat, olive oil, fructose etc. The second group of products specified by Annex 3B includes the progressive elimination of customs duties and overleading, with the elimination of the same at the end of the period, with the degree of the Agreement in force, and it covers 338 positions, and there are the most significant products - live junados from 80 to 160 kg, sheep, goats, chickens, chickens, sheep's meat, chicken and chicken, beef fats, dairy products, seed corn, flour and sorghum, then sunflower seeds, sugar tails, feed plants, vegetables, raw oil sunflowers, oil rapes and flaxes, molasses, livestock slaughterhouses, fruit and vegetables, soy juices, fruit, fruit rakies, etc. As you can see, it's a very significant product group that's being produced in our country, and basically by applying to force here, customs completeness is being abolished. Furthermore, Annex 3 provides for a gradual reduction of customs duties, but the levies are applied during and after the transition period. This includes nine tariffs, and that includes fruit and vegetables, primarily fresh grapes, apples, plums, cherry, strawberries, sweet peppers and tomatoes. Excuse me, how much time does our group have? (President: you have two minutes left. You can continue, because we've been talking for a minute. Thank you, so I can finish. The 3-G annex implies a gradual reduction to a certain level of customs and preleumania, with the elimination of levies at the end of the transition period. In this group, 275 customs positions were classified and customs duties remained somewhere between 20% and 80% of the existing level of customs after the transition period was completed. Here are more important products: live junada, pigs for slaughter, pig and chicken meat, juniper meat, milk spread, cheese, honey, soy refined oil, flour, peas, pasta, juice, fruit and vegetables, dried plums, etc. Then a duty-free quota for imports into our country 25 hectolitres of high-quality sparkling wine per year in vessels of two liters, fish and processed fish, over 60% of fish and fish products will be imported into Serbia without customs and levies, which are mainly products that are not produced in Serbia or produced in limited quantities. Then, processed products covering 325 positions, consisting of multiple stages of processing, classified in three groups: group 271 - are plant waxes, fructose, marzipan, etc., food for children, group 272 - has a progressive reduction in customs duties and after the expiry of the transitional period of down to zero; these are conditor products, ketchups, mustards, ice cream, beer, refreshing drinks, mineral water, hot alcoholic beverages, etc.; group 273 - retains different levels of customs duty, and this tobacco retains 100% of the existing level of customs duty, while dairy spreads and margarines retain 40% of the existing level of customs and plums and other types of rakia retain 30% of the existing level of customs duties. How much time has allowed me, and because of the speed, I may not have been clear enough, but this is the right information for agricultural producers and for all our citizens, which agricultural products will be, by way of force, almost freed customs duties, which will be maintained or subsequently released and which, even after a six-year transition period, will have customs burdens. I hope there will be an opportunity within the framework of the amendment to supplement what I couldn't say. Thank you. During this presentation, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12248	Comrade Mašic, you've been very focused and clear. I really couldn't provide you with better conditions with my authority. Mr. Zoran Shami has a word. Your task force has 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12249	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a set of laws that follow the laws of the budget. I'd be very happy if I could say the usual sentence, that as a party to the opposition we can't vote for those laws. Unfortunately, you can't vote for those laws for much more serious reasons. One part of the reason the DSS colleagues already brought it out. The fact that we have decided to unilaterally apply a trade agreement with the EU is one decision that, since I respect this Parliament, I should not qualify for the right word to qualify, but I admit that I do not understand what kind of partnership it is. I'm selling a car to someone, I'm telling them - you give me the money today, and I'll give you the car someday. That's what the EU literally tells us. We will unilaterally apply the trade agreement, and it will one day also favour us to apply the trade agreement, and the other day to welcome us into the EU. It certainly won't be soon. As a result, the tax hike, the increase in excise duties, we talked about here, and it practically all comes down to the fact that Serbian citizens need 300m euros to finance the EU, which benefits, I completely understand, they benefit from us applying the trade agreement unilaterally. However, this is not all the trouble related to this set of laws. I'll try to talk about something else in some time. The fact is that both the authorities and the opposition should care for the revenue side of the budget. I believe that there is no difference between the parties, we all root for the revenue side, because it depends, if nothing else, on paying a large number of our citizens, and education, and the military, and the police and health care, not to list any large and small budget beneficiaries. Unfortunately, I'm afraid those nearly 700 billion dinars, exactly 698, as planned in the budget, can hardly be realised with this kind of policy, I'll try to explain it as easily as possible. In fact, the trouble with the government is that it applies one completely wrong logic, which, to simplify things, comes down to the next. If the tax was 10% so far, so we raise it to 20%, then the income from that tax will be twice as much. I have to admit, it's one completely wrong logic, a terriblely wrong logic, and I'm going to show it on one case only, I haven't chosen the complicated and serious examples that could be listed here, I'm going to give you a simple case. Get increased excises on the beer. You'll say beer isn't some kind of artical that's going to hit the people too hard. Of course, every citizen, if he has to choose between being able to buy a child milk or a beer, he will buy the baby milk first. You raise 67% of the excise on beer instead of 9 dinars, 15 dinars a liter. Does this mean that income from these excises will increase 67%? He won't. Let's consider the border case. If all citizens give up buying beer, income is zero, it's a border case. The wrong income looks about like this, it's growing a little bit, and then it goes down to that border case. Where the fracture is going to break is not quite clear, but let's assume that the income will remain about the same. Citizens will still spend the same amount of beer money, except they'll buy less beer. If that story ended, then it would be good, but that story doesn't end. Namely, what's going on with the beer industry? It produces less, makes less money, and what happens next? He'll have to lower his salary to his employees in a more favourable case, and in a more unfavourable case, he'll have to fire some workers. Most workers will make less money. What's the consequence? The result is that less will buy and of course those products of which the state also collects taxes. So the state collects fewer taxes in some other places. The story's not over. Beer is made of barley among other things. The barley producers will produce less and they will buy less. You can see for yourself, in one trivial case, I haven't taken complicated examples of how that wheel turns in one negative direction. You swear in Europe, and many serious European countries have reached for something else at the moment, cut taxes, reduce VAT, unlike Mrs Dragutinovic, who has a brilliant idea of raising VAT. That's really genius. What's the logic here? Logic is simple. Tax cuts increase consumption, thus increasing production, raising people’s salaries, or hiring some new people in the end line. In addition to the fiscal policy of reducing state interest, then interest in commercial banks, etc. Some effects can be achieved, but our government, unfortunately, is not thinking about it. I'll continue this story when we discuss it in detail, so this exposure will get some follow-up, but I'm afraid it's a little bit for our government. I think our government should be giving lectures for two semesters, so maybe at the end of the second semester, they'll start to understand something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12250	The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12251	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, either by a set of financial or how you like to say budget laws that we are slowly bringing to a debate in parliament today, more specifically the proposals for accompanying acts, are designed to amend some important laws, on property tax, excise duties, customs tariffs, a republican administrative tax, income tax, as well as the law on contributions to mandatory social and pension-inhabitation insurance. However, I believe that they represent nothing but sublimation of bad and hasty solutions, and all under the framework of stories of adapting to European integration. What I would like to point out at the beginning of my discussion is the government's decision, which was discussed by fellow predecessors about the unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement, which, after the recognition of some state officials, even at the Ministry of Finance, will be significantly reduced in the current 2009 budget anyway. When a mistake is tried to correct itself by mistake, then we are witnessing the fact that in order to replace this deficit, in addition to regular alignment with inflation, an additional increase in excise duties on fuel, beer and cigarettes, coffee, and therefore expected in government revenue of around 15 billion dinars. In this respect, the amendments to the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act stipulates that pensions are not in line with the cost of life and inflation in the current 2009 period, but to be paid at the same amount that was established in December 2008. So, at the moment of the global financial crisis, which may have a world disaster situation, the government in a sense is ousting its head into the sand and, to make the matter even worse, is making a decision on a unilateral and zero-provoked application of the SAA, in the form of taking off protective duties on goods from the European Union, at the moment when all governments are looking to protect as much of their financial and economic resources as possible. It explains that a smaller inflow, with an estimate ranging from 150m to 250m euros, will be compensated from customs to higher production. Isn't it somehow clear that with lower customs revenues from the government and higher imports, we're going to grow in production? Such media arguments are actually an insult to the intelligence of an average citizen, and the worst thing is that import liberalisation shows either complete ignoring reality, or it's about a harmful alliance, perhaps this second one before, domestic Euroburocracy and import lobby. While no one in the world now seriously believes in the ability of neoliberal dogmas on the free market and the elimination of borders, so to speak. free market love, only here in Serbia is ignored. Only in Serbia could there be a unilateral reduction in customs duties towards the EU at this time, threatening a weak economy, which will now be much harder to obtain credit and investment. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the People, it is clear to anyone who knows that the account is that the trade deficit has been compensated during this past period in some foreign exchange inflow of credit, as has been filled in by the budget and loans, and unfortunately by the sale of social enterprises. Therefore, now that credit is not possible and investment should be reduced, so as not to waste fluid foreign reserves. Instead, the Serbian market opens to foreign goods with low customs duties, as well as to defend the dinar on the so-called. the first line, which, least said, destimulates production and exports, which is purely irrational thinking from an economic point of view. It explains how it is actually beneficial for our economy to tear down the walls of the customs of security. That sounds like what you call an explanation that the price increase, for example, will bring telephony, through competition, in the perspective of a lower price of communications services. Our domestic neoliberalists today seem to be lonely in the practice of neoliberal orthodoxia, threatening to be the last Mochicans already failed paradigms. Serbia is said to start the process of removing customs barriers to EU industrial and agricultural products according to established dynamics as a first step. The decision was made "to shorten the time between applying the agreement and gaining membership candidate status". But the bottom line is something else. In essence, the government has once again brought Serbia into a subordinate, humiliating position, over so-called. a partner in the EU, who has waived the law since the entry into force of the agreement, to which they are otherwise bound by a member of the 59th famous agreement. Dear citizens of Serbia should know that the opening of our country's market for EU industrial products will be a major challenge for businesses. Many economists predict that opening a market for competition, which is generally more developed and capable, will lead to a higher number of companies, I would say, such a match will not survive, and not because of its own weaknesses, but because in the past eight years in Serbia, an economic environment has been created, which favours imports more than it allows domestic businesses to match evenly in the open market. As the SRS parliamentary group, we have indicated in considering the draft budget that agriculture will be found at the very beginning of an agreement before similar conditions and business, the markets will also gradually open to agricultural products in the EU, while farmers will have to adapt to European standards. However, the EU's highly subsidised agricultural products will arrive in Serbia's market, which is a very difficult environment for Serbian agriculture, and the competition seems, as I have already said, quite unequal. Serbia's foreign exchange agriculture is currently achieving a surplus, which in the first two quarters last year amounted to 235m euros, but Serbian agriculture is still far from the European level, which best shows the fact that even so far approved quotas for meat and wine have not been met, and the real question is whether or not they will be met at all. Serbian agriculture is otherwise burdened by a number of problems, such as the debt of the state to producers, the problem of buying and buying, the problems with bank loans, the failure of key laws, the rise of mineral fertilizer and energy prices, the masquerade of prices between repromaterials and agricultural products, permanent emigration and poor infrastructure. We are witnessing that the 2009 budget puts agriculture in a drastically unfavourable position, as if it should not be a strategic branch of Serbia's development. According to expert estimates, the means to improve production should be around 500m euros annually. Serbia, however, does not have enough funding for investment, while EU agriculture is protected by massive subsidies, which amount to approximately 34%, or about a third of the price. For example, farmers in Hungary receive 250-300 euros per hectare, which is also in Croatia, while in Serbia the amount was 120 euros. With these indicators in mind, which are only one in a row, they should not be surprised, but also to worry about farmers, as well as negative reactions to the proposal for a unilateral application of the Agreement of the Chamber of Commerce and the Ministry of Agriculture of Serbia, which points out that unilateral application of the Agreement could ruin our agriculture, therefore, our farmers, who are obviously not yet prepared to meet the standards required by them. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, despite the apparent damage that a unilateral application of the Transition Agreement can do to the Serbian economy, and in particular to agriculture, the Serbian government has decided to activate the agreement, while in the media citizens are serving stories of numerous benefits that will come from lower prices. Such an argument, however, is shown to be unfounded, as after the application of the agreement, customs duties on products of 1-5% would be first abolished, so it is difficult to expect that if importers would indeed, which is unlikely, and lower prices by 1-5%, the citizens would still feel some negligible percentage. At the same time, lowering customs would significantly allow for a reduction in budget revenues of up to 90m euros. This deficit would have to be compensated from other sources, and the latest gas and telephone purchases testify that if the citizens, if they save something on the bridge, or to lower customs duties in this case, the bill will certainly have to pay on the pot. One vivid example of life is that without customs duties in unlimited quantities, cheese and eggs, potatoes, beans, fruit, seed barley, oatmeal, etc. will be imported from Serbia from the EU. We, as a state, are practically entering a high-risk zone without any protection. Explain to us, if all the countries are just filling a large portion of the budget with customs charges, will the competent ministers, for example, start strikein' after they start strikein' enlighteners and doctors say that in the budget, unfortunately, there's no money, and there's no because customs don't charge. It turns out that the government rather than taking care of its economy, much more accounts for extra-profits being released by foreign companies in its own country. So, in the end, the set of laws that are in the assembly procedure is just a marketing move that would show the local public a shift in Eurointegration. Progress is being played, but many negative consequences are being ignored. Unfortunately, the largest number of Serbian citizens from this farce will have only much, much damage instead of long-term benefits. The cause of all major economic problems is primarily monetary policy, which should not be surprising, since the NBS is absolutely neglecting the basic macro-pointers, such as unemployment, economic growth, i.e. balance of payments and external debt of the Republic of Serbia. The problem is also foreign reserve policy, which is being built at high interest rates, currently 17.75%. The problem is also with tricks that increase the supply of foreign exchanges in a moment, defending the course of the dinars. The problem is also a mandatory reserve of banks, whose reduction would lead to an increase in credit levels and a decrease in credit rates. Budgetary funds, therefore, can be spent much more rationally, but the space for saving public spending is much less than is suggested. The myth of excessive public spending mostly serves to hide problems and the impotence of monetary policy. Who is responsible for Serbia's totally unprepared welcome to this financial earthquake? First of all, those of Dinkic's band who have been running our economy for eight years. No state, without its banking sector and without state and development banks, can count not only on development but also on stability in times of crisis. The artificially maintained low rate of dinars has detimulated exports, including production, and that seems to be the only economic achievement of the aforementioned band, which defended even at the cost of the rapid melting of foreign exchange reserves, whose witnesses, unfortunately, today we also citizens of Serbia. The unilateral detachment of protective customs at this time of global financial chaos seems to be "coup de grace" and according to its own economy, but also to the state register. Every logic stands at the door of ideological neoliberals, which also have a personal interest in leading us a step closer to economic chaos, misery and unemployment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12252	National MP Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word. Your MP group has 11 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12253	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Minister, I must say that today, in front of us, before the MPs of the Republic of Serbia, there is a set of accompanying laws on the 2009 budget and that among these laws there is one called the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, and that is the law I want to talk about tonight, given that my colleagues from the DSS have already spoken on several occasions about other laws from this set. Because, let me remind you, these laws were in front of us and in December, following practically the budget, but even then we, as a parliamentary group, felt that it was important for each of these laws to be spoken individually because we think that these laws are affecting the very material part of the lives of the Serbian citizens and that it is important that the citizens of Serbia know what the government is up to. So, the DSS asked for this law to be spoken individually, and at the same time, as it is now, the DSS has tabled an amendment that essentially changes this proposal that is before us and is actually improving for the pensioners this proposal that the government has tabled. At the same time in December there was another amendment that applied to this law, it was the amendment of the PUPS parliamentary group, however, that amendment was not filed in a timely manner, so it was not discussed, but I would say that it was just then, it was gone, now in this part of the debate it was not even submitted. They were here today saying what the DSS used to say on several occasions, so I expect that, since they have not submitted such an amendment, they will vote for the one who submitted the DSS parliamentary group. Why do we argue that this is public and that every law is spoken of individually? First of all, because Serbian citizens need to see what economic measures those who promised them a European standard, who promised them to join the EU and all possible material wonders that the EU brings with it. When we talk about this bill, I primarily think of pensioners, who are very important to know what they are proposing, and I have to say that several ministers in the government of Cvetkovic were declared social development brakes, so it is very important that this group of pensioners, these brakers, as they say, and otherwise the honorable people who earned their pension, see what those who had promised them and what measures those who had promised them only a few months before, would be 70% of the average personal income of Serbian citizens, who had their promises on January 1st 2009, so now at the end of 2010. Now they say that, of course, because of the global economic crisis, and that is the famous alibi that the ministers in this government are holding, it means that this promise will still be fulfilled, so it doesn't matter how long it takes. I will remind you of another very interesting statement from the 2004 group, which says - if the price of joining the EU is that a million pensioners are brought to the brink of a beggar stick, then we do not need the EU. So it's very important to say - in 2004 it wasn't that far. So, what brings us these changes? The proposal ahead of us says that the minimum amount of pensions, the amount of cash compensation and the total amount of the 2008 score will not change during 2009, i.e. that means that the amount of pension remains the same as in 2008 and, as the citizens say, pensions will be frozen. To remind me, under the current Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, pension coordination with the cost of life, inflation and growth of earnings has been envisaged twice a year. I'm talking about a term this government doesn't know about, which is the achievement of both governments in Vojislav Kostunica, which means growth in profits. There is no such thing now and this proposal foresees that, practically, this right to coordinate pensions twice a year, and that means that the amount of 2008 pensions in 2009 will not change at all, regardless of inflation, regardless of the cost of life. Look out, just in these few days of January, so from 31st. To this day, the dinar value has dropped by 6.52%. So the cost of living has increased drastically in the last few days of January, and it's growing more and more. Let me remind you, we have a story about energy gatherings, utility services, food, drinks, gas, phones, subscriptions and impulses, so the total increase in all the cost of life is extremely high, and we're talking about pensions not being consistent with the cost of living during 2009. What is more obvious is that a compromise has been made in the ruling coalition and that the compromise refers to an extraordinary 10% pension increase since October 2008. Of course, that increase has eaten inflation already over the next week, costs have been increased several times, so that the 10% actually did not exist after a week. So the compromise concerns this increase, but the compromise also refers to abolishing compliance with the cost of life and inflation. The compromise is good for the ruling coalition, but it is obvious that this compromise will bring pensioners to the brink of existence and that these people will simply lose any hope for a better tomorrow. This pension proposal will, in fact, freeze for 16 months, not 12, according to the government. How? If this law is passed, and it is obvious that it will vote, pensioners can only hope for their checks on 1 April 2010, when it is time for regular harmonisation. And even then that alignment, that increase will be very small, only 4% or 5%, because pensions will only be consistent with the cost of living in the last six months. By then, 400,000 pensioners who receive a very small pension, out of which 200,000 of them do not receive an equivalent of 100 euros, so that their increase, these famous 10%, which has been so talked about since October to this day, was 700, 800 or 1,000 dinars. It was so big an increase of 10%. As the budget is hard to fill, as it is really hard and very hard to fill, it can happen that the amount of wages and pensions this time in two or three months, because the value, inflation and the cost of life has already fallen, and the 10% they have already received, I said, has eaten inflation and the cost of living within a week. We have before us a proposal from the government that says for itself that it is socially responsible and that all the difficulties that the economic crisis brings to all citizens of Serbia will be shared with solidarity. This time I said that it would look like a solid division of that population of citizens who are on the verge of poverty, because you have to say that over 90% of pensioners, and 1.6 million of them, over 90% of these people have pensions of around 30,000, with an increase of up to 35,000, and only a few percent of them have pensions that are extremely high. So when the DSS parliamentary group here talked about the need to find a formula not to increase pensions linearly, because we don't have funds in the budget for such an increase, and that ultimately it's completely useless for the government and for the citizens of Serbia to increase pensions so drastically to those who have a pension of over 70,000 and 80, and that's 1%, then we were ridiculed here. It is also said that there is no formula by which it is possible to increase pensions in this way. It is obvious that some in this government do not talk to each other, because I have already reminded today that Mrs Dragutinovic's finance minister, in an interview with today's "News", said there is a proposal she made, probably with her associates, that it is possible to increase the minimum pensions rather than increase pensions linearly. Once again I have to remind you, the DSS has submitted an amendment, which we'll talk about when we speak in detail, we'll have something to say then. It would be very important for all those who think about their parents, relatives, neighbors to simply think about a population of people who have ended their working lives very honorably, and now they are on the verge of existence not by their own fault, that they all vote in favour of the amendment that the DSS has filed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12254	Mr. Dejan Mirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12255	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a customs tariff law is probably the most significant legal text we are considering today, unfortunately, primarily because of the negative effects it will have. The main purpose of this bill is to unilaterally apply the Transition Agreement with the EU or to abolish customs revenues and incomes from VAT at a time when no one has disputed that our economy and the state are in serious problems. The following comparisons show how harmful the proposal for a customs law, which allows for unilateral application of the Transitional Agreement. According to the esteemed finance minister's statement of December 6th, so on the day the budget was presented, Serbia lost about 23 billion dinars due to a unilateral application of the agreement with the EU, or, according to the NBS course of the period, that is about 260m euros. It's bigger than the one that was scheduled to invest with Fiat. It is a sum greater than those of the minimum and thus attacked by the IMF 12.7 billion dinars, foreseen in the budget rebalancing to increase pensions. Also, the 260m-euro figure is four times higher than the amount foreseen for the MIP, it is four times the amount provided for by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, three and a half times the amount foreseen for the Ministry of Justice, one third higher than the resources of the Ministry of Infrastructure, or nearly six times the amount foreseen for KIM. So, instead of targeting the 260m-euro funds to the Foreign Ministry, which would thus, with fourfold the resources, represent our interests in the world, at the time of the diplomatic struggle for KIM, or to triple the funds for our judiciary and allow our judges to have better working conditions and higher wages, or to target those 260m euros to our farmers, or to build infrastructure. Unfortunately, it is, in fact, the EU's law on changing customs duties, more specifically to firms from the rich part of this supranational organisation. There is no economic justification for this decision. In this context, the most understandable statement by the distinguished Mrs Dragutinovic several months ago was a more accurate statement since 5 October 2008. She then said, "The application of the transitional agreement should wait for its adoption by the EU." Also, in the same month, experts from the Market Research Institute estimated that if the SAA is applied, there would be a greater increase in the external trade deficit. Against unilateral application of the Transition Agreement a few months ago, some businessmen, as we have already heard. If the economic situation in our country has deteriorated since then, and the government has acknowledged when it reduced its forecast of GDP growth to about 3.5%, which is probably an optimistic forecast, taking into account the assessment of the world's largest tenant company, Dun and Bradstreet, which in its January report estimated a decrease in economic growth in Serbia in 2009, to 2.5%, the deficit is also higher than the estimated 1.5% of GDP. However, it decides that despite the deterioration of the economic situation, a transitional agreement with the EU is being implemented. That's why, if, of course, he'd asked the finance minister, did someone put pressure on her to change her mind over the unilateral application of the Transition Agreement? Why did she give up her principled and economically justified attitude of October 2008? I am also interested in the answer, because the minister, as a doctor of economic science and a lecturer at the Faculty of Economics, must know that the current major world economies for which German Finance Minister Mr. Per Steinbrick has admitted to being new financial centres of power, such as Brazil, China, India and the Russian Federation, are just raising customs rates. For example, as published in our media in December 2008, Russia raised its customs duties on imports of cars from 25% to 30%, as well as customs duties on imports of agricultural products. India increased by 20% customs on certain food products. Indonesia has increased customs duties by about 500 product types. Customs have raised or are going to do this to Australia, Brazil and Argentina. On the other hand, the Western economies in which the crisis has started and which have essentially created this crisis are doing exactly the opposite of what the laws we are discussing today. For example, the BBC site is 5. 1. In 2009, the published details of the economic programme of the newly elected American president. The economic package negotiated at the US Congress envisions a 300 billion-dollar tax relief. On the other hand, while Western countries are reducing the tax burden, the government is increasing taxes and additionally burdening the poorer part of the population, and all for financing the incomprehensible decision on unilateral application of the Transition Agreement. The best example of this absurd is the bill of excise duties. It is known that the excise duties, according to the definition of our leading public finance expert, are "additional special taxes on consumption and due to excise duties are relatively higher in taxes than the products of the same type with higher prices. That is why the poorest layer of the population is logically affected because, as cheaper products of the wider categories of consumers with weaker tax power, they bear a relatively higher burden of taxation." It is also clear that our citizens will pay a higher VAT due to the unilateral application of the Transition Agreement, according to government announcements. For example, the governor of NBS 23. 12. In 2008, he said "If budget revenues in the first quarter of 2009 do not reach the planned level, a budget review, a freeze in earnings, a reduction in pensions and an increase in VAT will be necessary. "Also, budget rebalancing did not exclude the secretary of state in the finance ministry in its 19th statement. 12. 2008: "Therefore, the expected problems with budget revenues in the first quarter of this year will not be solved in one single and logical and economically justified way, which is giving up the unilateral application of the transitional agreement and the withdrawal of the Customs Law proposal," which is ahead of us. On the contrary, a sum of 260m euros will essentially be transferred to Serbian citizens, namely their poorest layer, through the increase of excise duties and VAT. This conclusion also occurs when the economic definition of VAT is analysed. According to the definition of the book already mentioned, VAT is not suitable for achieving the socio-political objectives of taxation, nor can it implement the principle of justice in taxation. The burden of this tax is equally borne by all and regardless of their economic strength. The repressive effect of the uniform rate is seen in the greater burden of economically weaker layers of the population, whose application barely enables them to meet the basic needs of life. So more than clear. The above arguments, economically, socially, show again that it is necessary to withdraw from the procedure the draft customs law; unfortunately, there is no will for it. It's as if at any cost, for political or other reasons, someone wants to make this harmful agreement, although it's probably just going to lead to budget rebalancing. As a result, it can be concluded that the real reasons for such an irrational decision are certainly in the application of the Brussels ideology or the ruling dogma which is essentially not related to the economy, but rather to utopia, unhappiness and propaganda, so with the phenomena long described by the great Russian lawyer Ivan Iljin, which is already a broader phenomenon that needs to study sociology, not law or economy. However, the unilateral application of the Transitional Agreement and the accompanying Customs Act also corresponds to certain monopolies in our country. It's no secret. For example, 11. 1. In 2009, Delta Maxi Group Director-General said that trade in Serbia will benefit from a unilateral application of the trade agreement with the EU. This should be added to the assessment by Dijana Markovic-Bajalovic, president of the Competition Protection Commission, that there are monopolies or insufficient competition in the area of retailing food products and that "by traffic achieved, the number of sales facilities and squares in the Belgrade market Delta is 70%." So the Delta company, as a monopoly in the trade sector, is about to benefit from a unilateral application of the Transition Agreement. At the same time, the application of the agreement will essentially transfer 260m euros to the back of the poorest Serbian citizens through excise charges and VAT increases. In return, citizens will not get a major price reduction, as announced for propaganda reasons, essentially in order to cloud the very essence of this agreement. A major price reduction will not occur, even the minister of trade admits. So, one thing that will enable this agreement and following the Customs Law is to increase the income of monopolies in this country, incomes that are so large that they can now be compared to the revenues of Serbia's entire budget. According to Delta's website, in 2007, Delta made revenue from a billion and 720m euros, in 2008, the company's planned income was even higher and amounted to nearly incredible two billion and 880m euros. Also, the company's website shows Delta is engaged in importing cars, spare parts and will again benefit from the reduction of customs duties envisioned by the bill. The site shows Delta is engaged in the sale of cosmetics, food distribution, mineral fertilisers, and owns a huge chain of supermarkets. It is precisely all these products that are mentioned in the Transition Agreement with the EU. On the other hand, the Delta site has no record of the company's charity and social donations, the help of the poorest citizens and anything like that. There's no record of the construction of assets, infrastructure facilities and bridges, which would be a gift to this society and this country. Therefore, because of all this data, it is a shame that no one at a meeting of businessmen, authorities and trade unions, held 9. 1. In 2009, in Belgrade, he did not dare publicly invite the owner of Delta to social responsibility at the time of the country's entering a serious economic crisis. No one dared ask him what he would do to help his country and people at a time when he has an annual income of nearly 3 billion euros, compared to almost 40% of Serbia's budget revenues. No one dared to publicly ask this logical question to the owner of Delta, not present at the event, the president of the state, nor the prime minister, nor the Deputy Prime Minister, nor any of the ministers. With all this in mind, it's no wonder no one has dared by the authorities to propose tax laws that would be fairer than those that are now before us. Fair tax laws in the right sense, laws burdening this harmful Transition Agreement, amounting to 260m euros, would be transferred to a monopolist who is the only one benefiting from the elimination of customs duties, not the poorest citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12256	The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12257	This topic was present on Saturday's tide and on the closed part of the DS Main Board, with a question of whether DS and the state should help and preserve bi-bip systems. B-bip is not an association for a car that we get in some other way. To pick up where Mr. Dejan Mirovic left off. In order for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to understand what this government is doing, I have to start by giving an instruction, it is doing something that is radical. The chaps say it's upside down. They say this is the wrong man. It's a graduation over a bad man. What is this graduation looking at? According to our bi-bip of the highest legal act, citizens are obliged to finance state functions according to economic strength and material opportunities. That means the rich separate more, the poor separate less, and the poorest pay nothing. Is this logic present in this package of laws that can be called laws that regulate taxes and contribute? No, that logic is misunderstood, upside down and some special interpretation by the government they can say they respect it. In order to avoid confusion, I suggest that all of the DS go to the SRS, take the SRS programme into 100 points, take a look at the economic and social part of the programme, so they will understand what needs to be taxed in this country and how. How do the wrong people do that, please, I only read what the Government of the Republic of Serbia wrote? I'd like you to take the proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act. Page 5 of the reasoning - effects of the adoption of the law. With this law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, where many things are going to be released, the opening of our market as canned cans for sardines, so here you are, where in the budget law, Mr Ilic, you wrote that in 2009 there will be less income on the basis of customs duties than in 2008. What's in your argument, don't take me personally, not yours? He says this: "The adoption of the law will not significantly affect the level of income of the Republic of Serbia's budget on the basis of customs burdens. "Please, if tax laws, let's single it out in two categories, excise law, value added tax law, so I don't take these fine, citizen income, property tax, etc., if the funds are overly provided, with the application of the principles of economic power and material opportunities, for customs regulations and the level of customs burden, the principle of protection of domestic production is present. Now we have a paradoxical situation. The government buys Fiat's vehicles from the Zastava factory, where 700m euros have already been invested, where Corridor 10 has spread, where a new track is going, where a new road is going, new infrastructure, new Ledinas, greenfield investments, Kargo planes, and then we get into a situation where those who import cars from abroad are reducing customs rates. I guess you're protecting domestic production, huh? They say -- in the perspective of domestic production. But to protect the import lobby. Mr. Ilic, I'm sorry to call on you, to clear up some things for the public. If an excise policy were applied in Serbia as a standard in the European Union, and that is what you are trying to do, the excise charge would also be on electricity. Right? That's right. But you put excise regulations in the medium term of compliance with EU regulations. Why? Because you are aware that if these standards were applied in Serbia, hell would come. From the EU's point of view, you wouldn't be paying taxes on coffee, not only oil derivatives, but electricity, and not to order further, of course, tobacco. If I went tobacco, I'd take that second step, you know. All cigarettes in Europe are five euro boxes, so we don't talk about what the burden would be. Here you are aware of the poor influence of European standards, directives, recommendations and what is binding in some way on EU member states and you put it on the medium term, but the import lobby is given priority in the law on amendments to the Customs Tariff Act. Please, for the sake of the public, there is no point in the tariff numbers that have been told today, about those someone talked about from the point of view of the eggs and Mr. Mirovic where he took the passenger cars. An even greater failure is of a systemic nature, because, just to remind you, not to speak out of my mind, because when I speak in my mind, and even when I quote the bi-bip constitution, I have to draw attention to you that in this law, especially in Article 1(2), you have exceeded constitutional powers. You're saying that the rate of the agreement will be applied, please, from the law confirming the agreement? Take care of dialectics present in Articles 16 and 194. The Constitution. Take care of the hierarchy of legal acts, because if you write that it is applied from the agreement, and forget the law, then we will have this situation that we here give you the right to apply the agreement directly before it is ratified in the National Assembly. We don't allow that. In the case of a decision harmonising our customs nomenclature with a harmonised nomenclature, etc., you may, as a Government, have the authority to legally-technically comply with the nomenclature, but the rates do not touch, the rates are the sovereign law of the National Assembly and the law to be adopted in the National Assembly. Whether it will be a law on amendments and amendments to the Customs Tariff Act, that is another question, but it must be regulated by law. For the sake of our public, I need to draw attention to the fact that there is a dialect between the budget law and all the accompanying laws that go. They're not following the laws of the Budget Law, forget it, they're material-legal regulations. The fact that you passed the Budget Law, where you said 300 and so many billions based on excise duties, so many and so many billions based on sales taxes, value added taxes, doesn't mean that it obliges you to swallow every such proposal. These laws are relatively permanent, they shouldn't be valid for just a year. Please, we know one thing, the order is moved, these laws go first, and as a crown of that legal-technical regulation of the Budget Law. What you said -- so many and so many billion will be provided on customs basis, does not mean that you have to vote for such a law on amendments to the Customs Tariff Act, so that, if applied, you will have less revenue than planned for the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia. If you know that, then the problem is solved. Now I have to say that I see that the adoption, or the drafting of these laws, especially of this special law, is the release of part of the income tax, I may have wronged the name, but you know what law it is, I must warn the public that after three years, Mladjan Dinkic accepted the SRS initiative. She referred to taxation both bonds, shares, and interest. We've been running an action here for years not to tax that share of citizens' profits. That's when they told us -- no, you're wrong, you're protecting, you're protecting, you're protecting, you're telling, you're telling. Now you've introduced it, you've suggested it. We also have objections to that concept, but principle remarks, but it's a good thing that you finally realized, if we kept trying for three years to convince you not to do it, it's no good, it's not good, and only when the water came to your mouth you realized, and come on, girl, we better get back. As far as the Excise Act is concerned, I must express a great deal of disagreement. I'll tell you what this disagreement is all about right now. One of the participants in today's debate was right when he said that a large number of products today as a category do not reflect the image of the individual's material position. Classic theory knows that taxes are made on derivatives, fur, gold, items of precious material and something that is luxury, and anything else if taxed goes at a lower rate. But when it starts with a drastic increase, I'm talking about those excises that are expressed in nominal value, not the ones that are expressed in percentages, then it affects all citizens, independent of their material position. Excuse me, please, the car in Serbia is not a luxury. 35 years ago when he was the best car, and often seen "fica," then every vehicle was a luxury. Today is no longer a luxury, to be honest, and today everything is taxed. Of course, for years I've been running one action on biofuels and substitutions, interferences, etc. I'm not going to use this time to explain it in detail. I have one amendment on the subject. By adopting that amendment, just to tell you as an introduction, you are not disturbed by the income of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, but only the existence of this provision in the Excise Act seems stimulating to all future producers of all those substances that can be a substitute for fuel and serve to improve quality and our path to eco-standards. I guess we should do that, too, because there are some directives and recommendations, and these are good directives and recommendations. Everything that is a technical standard, which exists in the world, and it is useful and is good from both the point of view of ecology and from the point of view of health should be accepted and helped to develop it in our country. Why would we have bio- diesel, eco- diesel late for 30 years after the rest of the world? We need to allow it to develop. At first pioneering, Europe said - 5% must be that, now they're going to about 10%, so let's go too. It needs new regulations, technical standards, standards. It can all be prepared during this year, so before it comes to a product that can always go into export and in large quantities. Let's finance a little bit, force that export economy. Our problem is that we have little business operators working. I fully understand those in the dilemma. Should economic policy measures also make it impossible for those who work so that they do not work anymore or should help everyone? We have seen that in the market economy, the state is also helping the private sector. That's what Mladjan Dinkic taught us for years that it doesn't exist anywhere on the globe of the Earth, only in that former SFRY and SRJ, and these are the remains of Milosevic's regime, etc. Here's what Bush has to do with Milosevic. And they opened the federal register and helped billions to preserve the banking system. Did you see the interest rates they prescribed? Bagatella, just to attract capital, to revive their economy. Let's do the same by acting economically rational, economically justified. Please, everyone is protecting their country. Why is here here here here here is to protect your country? Please, we don't have a choice in 2009. The government, the opposition, we all have to protect the state. Excuse me, please, I don't have a spare state. Who's got to raise his hand, so I can understand his political commitment. I don't have a spare state, and I know these people here don't have a spare state. Our problem is that someone on our side dictates, he's not just from abroad. If you could from the point of view of excise policy, I'm not going to talk about any further discrepancies of our excise system with the EU system, but I have an understanding of that. Why? If that applied to us, chaos would come, people, total chaos. Give the right measures, that every day beyond every measure, you can see little benefit and see a system that doesn't depend on media tycoons. We're all victims of media tycoons. And with this Customs Tariff Act. Please, you know who was in Brussels, you know who was negotiating, you know who was calling here about the EU - come on, come on. Guys, it's no use. We've got damage. You cut the agrarian budget, you opened the agricultural food market from the customs point of view, there's no protection at all, there's almost no protection. What about our villages? You killed a peasant, killed a farmer, what Jojic has been up to here for six months, and now he's finally won. Where's that land? Who rented that land? We also have this as an objection to the Property Tax Act, since the law has two parts, property and taxes on absolute rights. These are the regulations that should allow for revenues to the state. What revenue? Needed for the state to fulfil its functions. What functions? First the state, then the social, then the business and the end of the story. Math is simple and simple. That's what we're asking of these regulations. Of course, let the state help those social categories have this special law on contributions, the Law on Amendments to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance, where some categories are covered by compliance with the new Health Protection Act. That's not a bad solution, to be honest. If there are any problems, we will correct them with amendments, point to your problem, to the problem of citizens' inequality. It says - social demagogy; yes, the task of politics is to take care of the social state of society. The task of every policy is that 100% of the population lives the better, but not media manipulation. You can't make every hole and ambis a positive result. This law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Otary Tariff is bad, it does not protect our market. We can open a debate about what needs to be protected on our market. I agree, there are a lot of products that don't exist with us, we don't have a manufacturer. But who's responsible for not having a manufacturer, and we had one? We can't buy a man twice, we've been patting him on the shoulder for the first time. You know that famous billboard of Ace Vlahovic -- the beginning of the estate, let's sell everything -- bravo, applause, came into the budget. Now we don't have that product - we release customs, we get out of abroad, so what policy is that? So what policy is that, people? He's got two applauses, twice he's done some damage - don't do that. You get angry, we'll criticize you, like we're looking for ours, because everything that's been taken, it's cursed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-12-0.u12258	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before I conclude a joint principled search, I ask if any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I am concluding a joint principle search on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on property, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxation and Supplements to the Act on Taxation of Income of Citizens of certain types of Income, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Obligor Social Insurance and Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance. Since we have completed a joint principle search, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 140(4). Rules of Procedure, the paper continues on 14 January 2009 at 12.00 hours, by searching the details of the 1st item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law of the Occarin tariff. I thank you for your participation in the work, thank the Minister, thank Mr Ilic. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 140 MPs present. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert identification cards into the MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 104 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. National MP Riza Halimi informed me of the prevention of attending the session. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for the sittings to be attended by Mr Slobodan Ilic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Vesna Hreljac-Ivanovic, Assistant Minister of Finance and Ms Natasa Kovacevic, Assistant Finance Minister. I welcome you. We move on to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE CARY TARIFI (single) Ms. Aleksandra Janković has the word. Here you go.
