ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21084	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are present at this time at 123 MPs. In order to accurately identify the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21085	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to ask the Minister for State Administration and local self-government. Under the influence of representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia in the Presevo municipality, a broken coalition formed after last year's local elections and a new coalition was formed, which chose a brand new leadership at the constitutional session on 20 May, with a very harsh violation of the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government and the Statute of Presevo Municipality. The conditions for a secret vote were not provided for by law when the president of the municipality so far was released. Eight members of the municipal council were elected at the meeting first, with no proposal for the deputy president of the municipality, nor for the three remaining members of the municipal council provided for in the statute of the municipality, which is contrary to Articles 2 and 3. Law on local self-government. In such an illegal manner, an incomplete municipal council council was elected at a session held on the next day, on 21 May, by the head of the municipal administration who was elected over a public ad to five years ago, and immediately after that, a new person was appointed to serve as head of the municipality, which is also not provided for by law. What will the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government do to protect legality in the work of local self-government authorities in Presevo in order to prevent the creation of a chaotic state, which also ruled during 2005 in this municipality because of the intentional silence of the competent ministry as well as judicial findings at the time? The second issue concerns the ministry's problems again, as well as the interior ministry. These days in the Bujanovac municipality, as well as in Presevo, there are problems in issuing personal documents to citizens of Albanian nationality. I will quote one part of the memo submitted to the municipal administration by the police station: "From your local offices, Bujanovac police station receives demands to determine JMBG, especially for persons born abroad. On this occasion we are supplied a copy of the birth certificate born with data in Albanian. The data was written by the parent reference officer on the basis of an international copy, which is not disputed, however, it is binding that, according to the Law on Parent Books and the Guidelines on the management of parent books, he asks the party, i.e. the parents to translate international copies from the official interpreter and to enter all data in the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter in the parent book." We all the time adopt laws that should be compatible with European legislation, international statements come to us from European countries, and now the question is what does it mean to translate Serbian into the name and last name, parents' names, residences and date of birth. Let's see what's actually being translated. We have practice that Albanians now have double names, not all of them, but because of the difference between the Cyrillic Serb alphabet and the Albanian alphabet (a few letters are different) we have two names for the same person and people have a lot of problems in solving their interests and even rights abroad, because they appear with different names. (President Nikola Novakovic: Time, Mr. Riza. ) It is therefore very important to prevent this and to prevent citizens from exercising those rights in all countries in Europe where they currently live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21086	The issue will be forwarded to the government, of course, with the insistence of a quick response. Mr. Zoran Ostojić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21087	Mr. Vice President, I don't know who to ask you or Mrs. Dragutinovic. We now have a law on foreign affairs on the agenda and see Mrs Dragutinovic sitting as, I suppose, an authorised representative of the government. I believe the government has authorized you. Here, we're going to go to the discussion in detail, these are details, it's relatively more professional than in principle, colleague Vesna Pesic has really specific questions and ambiguities, so I ask – are you able to answer that? If you're not, then I really think it's more important that instead of the Roland Garros the minister shows up here. I know it's important Garos, but the power required by law by Mr. Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, that 5% of the employees of diplomatic consular offices receive without competition, are indeed high powers. Second, there's a security service that's not mentioned in the Security Service Act. I really appreciate you, Mrs Dragutinovic, but, frankly, I doubt you're an expert on these issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21088	The question is relatively easy, because on the agenda, it's not an amendment to the Foreign Affairs Act, it's the right to Article 235, and we'll settle that question when it comes to the agenda. As for the concrete answers, once we start the debate on the agenda, we'll see how it goes. The word is Mr. Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21089	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a question I refer to Prime Minister Cvetkovic. Unfortunately, I must do so, although I do know that Prime Minister Cvetkovic is not actually prime minister of government, although we do know that the government is orchestrated from the cabinet of the president of the state and that he is in fact the puppet government of the cabinet of Boris Tadic. Of course, a very bad, very incompetent, which brings the country into disaster, into a serious crisis bigger than the one in which, by nature, we would have to be in view of the world's events. This is my question, unfortunately, in some forms I've asked before, but when you ask a question so you don't get an adequate answer, then, of course, you have to ask it again. The government of the Republic of Serbia, or individual government officials, indicated an agreement with the International Monetary Fund a few months ago. It was supposed to be, or I guess it was, no one knows that anymore, a credit arrangement for the total amount of up to three billion euros. We then warned that the arrangement, or negotiations with the International Monetary Fund, would be entered without the government's formal decision on that. Later, it became clear why the government's formal decision was gone (and I'll say after a few minutes). Then a formal decision was made by the government to enter talks with the International Monetary Fund, but after we had repeatedly asked that question and repeatedly insisted through parliamentary issues on such a matter. If it hadn't been for that, the impression is that no formal decision by the government would have been made. In the end, all arrangements of this guy must go through ratification in the National Assembly. There's no indication of that, and the arrangement with the IMF of this guy as he wants to conclude is a specific international contract. What's being asked as a key question is, what do these funds have to serve? Government leader's statements initially showed that these funds would mainly serve as support for the currency stability of dinars. Later we heard various other statements about what all the funds that withdraw on the basis of the loan could serve in defense of domestic economy and economic situation, but all this is unclear. Have we ever had a discussion about this here? MPs' questions and flat-rate answers are not enough. This is a serious subject. Three billion euros is a serious amount of money, 400 euros in debt per capita is a serious borrowing. Imagine, dear citizens who follow this, that someone should come to your door, ring the bell, his chest says "state," enters your apartment and says - give me 400 euros right now, you ask him - excuse me, why? I'd like to know, because when I pay taxes, anything else, any taxes, I want to know what's going on, which is why you want to put me in charge of 400 euros, which, of course, I'm paying off with interest? And you tell him -- I'm not sure exactly, we have all kinds of ideas. We never spoke openly before the National Assembly, we never presented a programme related to the spending of these funds, we never said exactly what it was used for and what the spending programme was, but we mainly raced to prove that it was necessary for the stability of the dinars. And then this citizen remembers, I hope, so he tells you -- the dinar's gone for over 20 and some dinars over the past six or seven months, I haven't got a job, not only have you not realised the employment program but there's a negative rate, the social gross product is not growing but the economy is not progressing, but it's going back, we haven't seen any real programme of economic recovery, and why would you take my 400 euros from me? My question for Mr. Cvetkovic, finally, is – when are we going to discuss it human and in a nice way, if nothing else?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21090	Mr Tomislav Nikolic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21091	I have already asked questions about the problems Serbia has because it is a closed National Museum. Today, I would like to remind the minister that he needs to answer questions and that he has no other function except that Serbia can present the treasure it has to its citizens not only, but also those we count on to visit Belgrade and Serbia. To remind him that more than 30 museums in Serbia work only a few. That the National Museum closed on June 1st, 2003, because the Dossov authorities found that microclimate at the National Museum was not adequate for the preservation of exhibits. That the Austrian firm Kunstrasts built in Pančevaci rit some depot whose lease is monthly paid 35,000 euros. The depot was built near the gas station, in the kryptodepression, so below the Danube level, so it threatens to give us a huge number of exhibits from the National Museum either submerged or burned in the fire. The National Museum has about 400,000 exhibits, which contains the ring of Stefan the Original, the ring of King Radoslav, the ring of Queen Theodore on which the two-headed eagle was first imprinted, whose imitation we included in the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia. A simple question arises – why is the National Museum not working? The sum of 25m euros is said to be necessary for the reconstruction of the museum, but is also said that the cost of maintaining the museum would be enormous. I'm surprised none of the men in the profession raised the question of opening the National Museum. I ask the question – does the minister know which valuable exhibits are missing from the depot or from the National Museum vault, since there are open suspicions that there has been a five-eyed revolution at the National Museum and that many exhibits have disappeared. I call on the MPs to tour the National Museum building and make sure they have no state without the National Museum and that you yourself are consciously participating in Serbia's losing many attributes to its statehood. In addition, I remind you that the Fresca Gallery, which keeps copies of all the frisbees from the KIM monastery, is now that not only state officials, but no citizen of Serbia can go to KIM, raises the question why at least no copies of the frescoes found in medieval KIM monasteries are available to him. I am telling the Minister of Culture that he is not a politician, but that he is one of the people who should worry about it, that this issue should not be considered politically, that for the National Museum he should fight, that he should have started the action "open the National Museum", that there are at least five world museums who are willing to help us immediately, not with credit arrangements but with grants, because it is a shame for them too that an old country, a country that has a history, culture, tradition, which has a future, is not adequately represented in the world's cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21092	Thank you. Mr Dragan Todorovic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21093	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd rather, Mr. Novakovic, that, right now, only Mrs. Slavica is in that place, because the question, first of all, should be addressed to her. First and foremost, I ask one question – when will you give answers to the questions I have asked so far? There are some difficult and easier questions, but you, unfortunately, are not answering at all. This is getting completely pointless, farce. I asked a simple question, please, when will I get an answer for that device located across from the SRS parliamentary group. I don't know what the problem is. Whose is it, who set it up, what is it for, for what purposes? Can't you make a deal? You don't know how to answer? Or maybe it's something that doesn't belong to the Serbian Parliament? Now I seriously doubt that you are hiding something not only from the MPs but also from the citizens of Serbia. I think it's your turn to finally answer that question. I asked a question about the property of the Communist Union. The 2001 law gave them the right of then parliamentary parties to use the property. I said there's about 300 objects. One of those objects is "The mouth." It's been almost a year since I asked that question, and you're not answering me. Who's using that property? We saw it with the mouth, you sold it for nothing. It is only now that the question arises, that is, that some things are being raised about the crime surrounding the Palace of the mouth. I've asked a lot of other questions, and you don't answer. I'd like to ask another question, which I think is very interesting and I'm just amazed that so far no one is responding to this situation where we are, especially those across the street, ZES. You know, Mr. Novakovic, that on the basis of a member of the 249th Serbian Parliament, MP groups of friendships are being educated. You also know the role of those friendship groups. I think that maybe this trip to Europe would be shortened, maybe you shouldn't wait 2025, maybe in 2023 you'd be able to be admitted to Europe if there were those friendship groups, which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the role they had, would provide Serbia with such an opportunity. We are the only congregation that has absolutely formed groups of friendships in the second term of 2007, 2008 and 2009, but they do not work. No single group of friendships work. First of all, this raises the question of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Mr Micunovic. Okay, I understand Mr. Micunovic may not be able to deal with these problems since he is establishing good ties between Serbia and Croatia. But since he is in no condition to do so, it is the task and obligation of the president of the Serbian Parliament, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. It's stuck somewhere. What's the reason? Could anyone be insisting on the Serbian Parliament not to form these groups? They may not be matched by certain groups of friendships, because there are formed groups of friendships with some countries that are not at the will of America. For example, a group of friendships with Iran's parliament. I can believe that might be the reason, because you know how we are and how we function. It's just that Manter comes in and says this can't, this can't, this can't wait. You're handling the orders of an American ambassador, an English ambassador, and probably some others, but then tell us what we're dealing with if they're completely pointless. The special question now is why do we need this Rules of Procedure. How do you oblige us to respect the Rules of Procedure and not respect him? You're a lawyer, you know there are these mutual obligations and it only makes sense if all the parties in this House stick to this Rules of Procedure and respect it. I would really ask you, since it seems that Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic's emergency did not bear fruit, that you try your authority at the service to act as if I finally got an answer to the question, at least this about the device upstairs, i.e. What's up on the balcony?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21094	Thank you. The rights and obligations of Members of Parliament provided for by the Rules of Procedure apply to all alike, and there are no deputies like us, you, we are all here. Therefore, I will do everything in my power and this applies to each MP individually, no matter where he sits in this room. The answer within 15 days, as far as the Rules of Procedure allow me, I will try to come out myself. There. Anyone else want a word? (Dragan Todorovic: How many times does that count? Do you always count, when I ask the question, from that moment on for the next 15 days or does it count when I first asked it? Mr. Todorovic, I'm a lawyer. I don't do math. When Mrs. Comic comes, I think it's more for her. Thank you for understanding. Mrs. Pesic, the base of the call? Now? No, the questions that every MP has the right to ask the government are from four o'clock in the afternoon, within 90 minutes. He is now a member of 235, these are issues of authorised representatives and heads of parliamentary groups. You want a word from the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21095	I wanted to ask a question about one of the polemics that was in the paper, which caused great doubts. Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic has brought in some kind of regulation that needs to disable a small business, which refers to optical activities, by prescribing some impossible conditions, storage squares, for sales space... It also makes it impossible to import frames and even somehow fell out of that regulation that citizens cannot choose the frame and try those frames. It's really interesting why he spends time everywhere in the world when you can go into optic stores, pick shoulders and no such strict conditions for this small business. He's covering it up behind the supposedly "regulatory of all medical resources," including the optical shop. I ask the question is is it true that this is done because Mr. Miskovic bought Optics stores, a state-owned company, and whether this should reduce competition, and then have certain benefits from this comic regulation that says we can't choose the frames for glasses, but Tomica Milosavljevic will tell us how we're going to do it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21096	We didn't get along. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Minister Milosavljevic will be at your disposal at 4:00 p.m. and may this be the first question to be addressed to him. I think the question is completely in place. Since there are no more statements on the basis of Article 235, so none of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Balint Pastor, Aleksandar Pejčić, Zoran Shami, Mladen Grujic, Gordana Comić and Milica Radovic. We move to the 19th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gender Affairs (Statistics) You have received amendments submitted by the National MPs: Aleksandar Martinović, Bojan Mladenovic, Milos Aligrudić, Nikola Lazić, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Marković, Vladan Jeremic, Sredo Perić, Mirko Munjic, Tomislav Nikolic, Mladen Grujic, Vjerica Radeta, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Ognjen Mihajlović, Nikola Savivić, Milan Dimitrijevic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Natasa Jovanovic, Dragan Stevanovic and Dragan Šormaz. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. As an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Dejan Mirovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21097	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS has submitted a dozen amendments to the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Affairs Act. In these amendments, we have again addressed, as well as in the principle debate, special attention to Article 5. The law on foreign affairs. We consider Article 5 to be one of the most important in the 2007 law. For example, Mr Alexander Martinovic's amendment was submitted in this regard. Also, Article 1. The draft law amending the foreign affairs law is better and more precisely defined in relation to the legal text and in the amendment of counterpart Bojan Mladenovic, as well as in the amendment of counterparts Vladan Jeremic and Sreta Peric. Similarly, the precise definition is required by amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Foreign Affairs Act. This amendment was submitted by counterpart Mirko Munjic. Also, Article 42. The 2007 Foreign Affairs Act, or the amendments provided for in Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Affairs Act is defined by the amendment submitted by the People's MP, Verice Radet. Same Article 42. The law on foreign affairs is being improved and added to the amendment of MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, in her amendment, takes into account the economic crisis and budget rebalance, as well as the necessary savings in the public sector. Similar solutions are foreseen in counterpart Nikola Savic's amendment. These are very important issues at the moment, and we are considering these amendments. Also, counterpart Dragan Stevanović with his amendment to Article 4. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreign Affairs requires a precise definition of the concepts used by the legislator. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, but no less important is the amendment of MP Natasa Jovanovic to article 6. Proposal for a law on foreign affairs. This amendment is in line with international circumstances, because we believe that the Foreign Ministry must respond quickly to the increasing pressures on our country, especially regarding the recognition of so-called. the countries of Kosovo. Therefore, all amendments of the SRS have a clearly defined objective. That is why the minister, who is unfortunately not present here, should seriously examine them, without prejudice and with the help of neutral rather than ideological approach as has been the case so far. Our intention wasn't to submit amendments to get cheap political points. Our intention was to submit amendments that would improve the work of the Foreign Ministry, in line with Serbian national interests, which were primarily at risk due to foreign political pressure. As an opposition, we are not looking forward to the defeats and failures of our diplomacy. On the contrary, we have also found in the previous debate that our country's foreign policy position is very serious and complicated. In this context, we believe that our country faces a long-term unacceptable political strategy, led primarily by the United States and aimed at jeopardising the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, then its economic system, and thus the standard of our citizens. In this regard, we point out that, when making these amendments, we have taken into account the principles of foreign policy of the United States or the need to mate them primarily because of the violent and illegal kidnapping of KIMs. For example, when working on this law, the famous so - called so - called so - called Law was taken into account. "Long Telegram" by American diplomat George Kenan, sent from Moscow to Washington on February 22, 1946. The Minister who isn't here knows for sure that this telegram was the basis for decades of US policy towards the Soviet Union and Russia. Of course, we do not claim in this context that Serbia is a strong and powerful country such as Russia, but a long-term strategy based on the principles laid down in this famous telegram is also applied in the current diplomatic practice of the United States. The foreign ministry certainly knows that US diplomat George Kenan has studied even three consecutive five-year plan of the Soviet Union. He also analysed the possibility of a Soviet military raid on Western Europe, as well as the economic power and reconstruction of the country after Nazi aggression. Because of the studio approach Henry Kissinger writes in his "Diplomacy" that "Telegram", I quote -- one of the few diplomatic reports that changed Washington's view of the world. So, because of the importance of this document, Telegram, we felt that any foreign policy, including one run by such a small country as Serbia, should take into account the basic principles of American foreign policy. Besides, that Telegram got into the State Department procedure a long time ago. On April 1, 1946, it was submitted for consideration by a mixed committee in the form of memoranda. The author, then a diplomat at the US Embassy in Moscow, became head of the Department of Policy Planning at the State Department in 1947. Otherwise, he was also an ambassador to the SFRY. In this context and in accordance with the foreign policy circumstances in which our country is located, it is important to point out the following. U.S. policy based on these principles goes to the smallest detail. This also shows the fact that Kenan's Telegram contained an analysis of Russian history, even the mentality of the Russian people. Also, the document recommends a decades-long strategic policy, since the problems between Moscow and Washington at the time did not cause any dissension or lack of communication, but it was, as always in the history of diplomatic relations, about the opposite interests. In that sense, these principles can be applied in our current relations with the United States. If the foreign ministry believes that a visit by US Vice President Beyden will change the long-term interests of the United States regarding Serbia, then Serbia's government is not doing professional, but rather, slightly, naive people. It's also interesting that George Kenan, in his Telegram, which is the basis, as we have stated, of modern American diplomacy, claims that Soviet and American goals are completely opposite and that no American, literally quote, investment will change them. That is why the United States, as already stated, must prepare for a long fight. We came from such real facts when making amendments, but also during the principle debate. It's a reality in our relationship with the United States. A similar advice to the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is given by Mr Carpenter of the Kayto Institute in Washington. In a statement to the Bi-Bi-Si site in Serbian, dated 19.5.2005, so four years ago and before the illegal declaration of so-called. The states of Kosovo, they say, quote -- even if Serbia becomes a model capitalist democracy with its Jefferson, America will not change its attitude towards Kosovo. The policy will not be changed, no matter what Serbia has done. Or, ladies and gentlemen, if we adapt the words of an American expert to the current practice that governs relations between Belgrade and Washington, the following could be concluded. Even if Serbian authorities agree to introduce an open protectorate in Serbia, such as the one in Bosnia or Kosovo, or that our authorities decide to hand over Telecom, EPS, the Commercial Bank of the IMF, more specifically the United States, to repay foreign debt, the US policy towards Kosovo will not change by one millimeter. From a similar assumption in the making of our amendments, we are also leaving when it comes to the question that the long-awaited guest, Joseph Biden, has been making during his visit to Belgrade. It's a question of Serbia's entry into NATO. Biden said on May 20th, while visiting Belgrade: I have a clear message that the US wants to deepen co-operation with Serbia and that Serbia is a successful member of the Euro-Atlantic community. When we clear this sentence from phrases and decrypt the expression Euro-Atlantic integration, it is clear that Biden was talking about the North Atlantic Pact, more specifically NATO. In this sense, more than the current question arises – what would Serbia get if she joined NATO? Of course, even those who advocate entry into this anti-Russian organisation do not dispute that joining NATO would bring us more costs than benefits. So, as an argument to accept Biden's stance, it remains only a phrase that if we join NATO, we will preserve KIM within Serbia. However, this phrase is not based on solid grounds either. The next example shows that. On June 20th 1974, Turkey invaded Cyprus. During that time, 200,000 Greeks were expelled to the south of the island, and Turkish forces began the occupation of the northern part of the island, which runs to the day-to-day. However, when the Turkish forces invaded Cyprus, Greece was already a member of the so-glorified NATO here. There were U.S. military bases on her territory. Also, there was a military junta in Athens, which British historian Richard Klog writes in his book: Many Greeks believed that the US administration played a crucial role in establishing the dictatorship of military junta. One of the few foreign officials who visited Greece during the seven years of their kind of statement on the international plan was US Vice President Spiro Egnju, otherwise the son of a Greek settler. Also, the junta made sure that nothing was causing American patrons and that it faithfully carried out its obligations to NATO. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context of comparison with the Cyprus situation, it is common knowledge that, with the help of the US junta, it has choked democracy in Greece and all patriotic forces, and that the consequences of the pro-American regime's authorities are still felt in Greece. Just mentioning the student massacre in the building of the Athens Political Academy in November 1973, you'll understand what I mean. So, from the above, it turns out that neither NATO membership, or the stationing of military bases, nor the unspeakable execution of all U.S. foreign and domestic policy orders, nor the visit of an American vice president who, unlike Biden, was of Greek origin, helped Greece defend Cyprus. Moreover, the Americans did not even inform Greece that Turkey would attack Cyprus even though they knew it, more specifically Ankara requested Washington's permission for such action. Also, as we have already stated, this problem has not been solved since 1974. Two hundred thousand refugees have not returned to their homes in northern Cyprus, although both Greece and Cyprus have become EU members in the meantime, and Turkey has not. So these are realities in international relations that cannot be hidden by any phrases about NATO and the EU as a rescue solution for this country. It's a reality that tells us that the foreign policy position of a small country that has been moving within the given frameworks of American foreign policy for decades can't change anything the government of the country does at that point. It's a reality that can only be changed by co-operation with a force that doesn't depend on the U.S. and that can, frankly, be said to stand up to it on every plan. More specifically, by co-operation with a country most respected by the United States even though their interests have not been in line for several decades, which is the Russian Federation. To such a conclusion, we are led by the fact that this country vetoed the Security Council in 2004 and thus prevented the adoption of an unfavourable plan, which forced the United States and Britain, on the reunification of Cyprus, a plan so unfavourable for Greeks, that it envisioned the survival of 40,000 Turkish soldiers on the island or the legalisation of the banishment of 200,000 Greek Cypriots. Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS amendments aim to reduce public spending, but in that rational, rather than populist sense. In this regard, we propose to our amendments more precise and correct definitions than those used in the Bill's proposal or shorter deadlines because we believe that the 2007 law was passed long enough and that the competent ministry had room to apply sufficient sublegal acts. So all of our amendments are aimed at making the Ministry of Foreign Affairs more efficient. In that sense, it is simply incomprehensible for us that the minister allows someone from another ministry, specifically from the Ministry of Economy, to determine who he will hire in our diplomatic and consular representations. This is particularly incomprehensible, given that two months ago in a competition for so-called. no one has been elected from the state administration and that these days, when there is so much talk about saving, repeats the competition and publishes in our media, with the difference that it is allowed for these sensitive and significant places in diplomatic and consular representations to be selected and the staff who do not work in the state administration. In that sense, it is not clear to us who these people will respond to when and if they are employed in 28 predicted cities around the planet. Whether they will answer for their work to the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or to an ambassador in a particular country where they will work, or they will all have the right to order them. If so, we can only assume what kind of problems may arise in practice. We think it was a better solution that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (President: Time, Mr. Mirovicu). ) in accordance with our economic and national interests, determines the people who will carry out these duties at the embassy. Also, ladies and gentlemen, it is completely incomprehensible and the criteria applied when it comes to our real economic interests, based on external trade cooperation in this case. Then it would be logical for Russia to have the same number of personnel as Germany. That's exactly what economic data shows. According to the Republic Statistics Institute of January-March 2009, we imported from the Russian Federation $560m worth of goods, and from Germany worth $400m. However, these solutions are scheduled to send three times more personnel to Germany than to the Russian Federation. The justification for such a criterion cannot be our numerous diaspora in Germany, because economic attachés will not work to improve cultural ties, issue visas and the like, but, above all, it is clear, to strengthen economic ties. The same conclusion is made when it is considered that the same number of economic attachés is sent to the Russian Federation as to countries that are much smaller economic partners and with which we have several times less foreign trade co-operation, e.g. with Britain and the United States. This, ladies and gentlemen, can only be interpreted as another example of the neotytoism and underestimation of Russia that is present in our government or the application of dogmatic ideological policies, the pro-brisl dogma, which does not respect the reality and economic interests of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, not only because of the current visit to France, the foreign minister and the president of the Republic, but also because of the previously undisclosed data, the words of De Gaulle on the fourth French republic should be reminded. He then warned that the then regime, the Fourth Republic, had left France's positions only to put an end to the end and that it had agreed to the disastrous subordination that led France at that time in the situation that its foreign affairs were managed by Dalls, and also by Americans. That's why then the Fourth Republic, according to De Gaulle, was quoted as a sick man in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21098	Thank you. The word is made by the president of the parliamentary group Forward Serbia, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21099	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the implementation of this law, the Proposer wrote that there is no need for any additional financial means, and I assume that Mrs Dragutinović is here as someone who has proposed a law on foreign affairs, so, Mrs Dragutinovic, all the criticisms that I am giving the law to you today, because I don't think that as a very intelligent woman, you would accept that you were called here for a law in which you did not participate. I expect the finance minister today, when it is very difficult for Serbia, to have far more important jobs than to sit in the National Assembly, to listen to criticisms sent to the foreign minister or to, for God's sake, try to explain the solution to this law although law enforcement does not require any financial resources. So, your role, Mrs Dragutinovic, don't mind me telling you this, is over at the time when your ministry said that the implementation of this law does not require additional financial resources. I could only ask you today where we're going to provide additional funding, if it's going to put social benefits at risk, but since I can't ask that question, then I don't see the purpose of the government humiliating the National Assembly by setting any minister at any point in the agenda. At a tennis tournament in Paris, together with its party chief, in France, which has promoted and implemented the independence of Kosovo and Metohija through Kušner, which is also today, through Sarkozy and Kushner, a country that is in the front line of those who ask us to accept the independence of KIM and those who condition our EU accession by recognising the independence of KIM. I'm really interested in what the two of them are looking for for for three days in Paris, in a country whose attitude they can't change and whether it's really necessary for the President of the Republic wherever there is a big competition to invent a state visit to go to attend this contest, to take pictures of him kissing our athletes, to have these athletes tie in a certain way to his political party, or, God forbid, himself. We have submitted amendments wishing to take part in the revision of this bill, in a desire to state the SNS' position on how foreign affairs should be done and how the Republic of Serbia should be represented. Our general position is that the representatives of Serbia are our diplomats, not the president of the Republic and foreign minister. Our position is that diplomats are completely humiliated. But whoever's to blame accepts it themselves -- either broken by alcohol, or failed as journalists, or failed as writers. They themselves accept ambassadorial functions even though they know very well that they are not qualified to do this job, that they cannot work well. But this corresponds to the government of the Republic of Serbia because it can justify the enormous journeys of the president of the Republic and the foreign minister by diplomatic tasks that lower-level diplomats can carry out. After all, a few days ago I read the statement by the minister for the diaspora, which said Serbia's goal was to join NATO. I am really interested, Mrs Dragutinovic, when you wrote this law, whether you had in mind or in the light of the resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia, the resolution adopted in the only place it was brought, which obliges all state officials (set up, appointed and elected) to implement it. Did you, preparing to defend this law in the National Assembly, ask the Prime Minister whether he had the right to make public views different from those of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the general position of the Serbian Government expressed through the exposés of the Prime Minister, who made it clear that the government would respect the resolution of the National Assembly on Serbia's military neutrality, on non-classification by any major force, along with any major powerful military bloc? Strange things happen in our diplomacy, Mrs Dragutinović. Please change that. We have driven the ambassadors of Macedonia, i.e. the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and Montenegro, because the two countries recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence, but the president of Serbia went to the inauguration of both of the presidents of those countries when they were recently elected to those posts. The question is, what are these poor ambassadors to blame for driving them out of here and for those who have imagined that policy to experience a public congratulation from our President of the Republic on the spot, in Skopje and in Podgorica? I think it's a big screw-up in foreign affairs, but if you've really taken over these foreign affairs, which makes me happy, then I know you'll fix it, just like you've fixed a lot of things in the finance ministry. With regard to our amendments, I will explain briefly the amendment I have submitted, and Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic will explain the second amendment, which she has submitted. So, the minister has so far had the right to nominate unlimited numbers of persons to the highest posts in diplomatic and consular representations, respecting the condition that they were proven in scientific research, in other areas, that people were of respect, and that could be every ambassador and every consul. But that wasn't enough for the minister and DS. Somewhere in the paper, I read what we were not told here, and what we cannot read in the bill, that a vacuum appeared, so the minister appointed ambassadors, and he has to call a competition for other persons, lower functions. Well, then he gets stupid -- as I'm setting up an ambassador, and I've got to call a contest or an ad for people who aren't ambassadors, so let's face it, I can take it myself now, not taking care of any professional qualifications, no morals, no scientific research, nothing at all. Someone from the government said those faces were embassy guards, porters, flower waterers, but it doesn't say anything in the law. And I have to inform you that in Serbia and such people are receiving it on the basis of a competition and that the minister will indeed, as a holy cow, have powers that no one else in Serbia has. I can't accept that at all. And I cannot accept the pointless amendments that some MPs then submitted to that member, so they reduced the number of employees to 3%, and then deleted the right of the spouse to rest his job while his spouse was employed at the embassy. I guess we should separate families when someone accepts the job to represent Serbia. I think the real amendment is to delete this member of the bill, deny the right of the minister to have his own foreign affairs ministry, that is to deny DS the right to have his own foreign ministry. You're really building a party ministry. I understand that you have some foreign affairs section, you have transferred her work to the National Assembly, the ultimatum has appointed Mr. Micunovic as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs even though she should have thanked for it and left it to someone else, but well, it's already a matter of relations in the ruling coalition. If this must be suffered in the Assembly, Serbia does not have to suffer. The DS cannot have its own foreign ministry to represent Serbia. He may represent DS, but career diplomats, educated diplomats, don't seek out exclusively from his ranks, because then it looks like communism to you, my dear gentlemen Democrats. One-minded, one-party system. That's why you don't trust diplomats. It's some kind of reward for writing about you or not being attacked, and you left it to the President of the Republic and the Foreign Minister to lead our diplomacy. I've never read a statement from our ambassador, besides how to read a good statement from the ambassadors in America, you don't know him enough. In one of the world's few forces, in one of the two world superpowers, you set up an ambassador who was at least at odds with the US administration and never did anything good for Serbia. Neither does anyone in the diaspora know him, nor has any of the diaspora people I've had many contacts with in the last few months, said a single nice word for him. He even spoke of Kosovo and Metohija's independence as imprudentity. You are still deepening power over Serbia, you have obtained the results of the elections, but now God would not force you into extraordinary parliamentary elections because you know very well that of your 16 coalition partners, if you do not lie to the President of the Republic, 14 would no longer be in parliament, as he said that Serbia wants to free itself from small political parties, which are ballast and have blackmailing capacity. To whom did the President of the Republic say, when there are 14 or 16 parties of the ruling coalition here in the parliamentary benches, when 14 of them are in the government of the Republic of Serbia, when Serbia does not have enough budget to meet only the party needs of coalition partners in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? I really don't think this law was the place in this session, especially this bill. It would be much more important for someone here to report to us that our case stands before the International Court of Justice and who will suffer the consequences if the decision of the International Court of Justice is not as it is now represented by the President of the Republic and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Who will report to us on what Eulex is doing at KIM and are the latest measures, and I will ask a parliamentary question this afternoon, with an agreement with the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Do we really have to take all the goods that go to KIM first to drive to the south of Kosovo Mitrovica to customs and pay taxes, then return to northern Kosovo Mitrovica? Will this cause a gathering of Serbs in the number that EULEX would estimate is enough to station much stronger forces of the Kosovo Police force than they have ever been? Is that a signal for Kosovo police to slowly take over northern Kosovo Mitrovica? It's much more important to me, believe me, than this bill that the minister asks for, and we pretend like we don't see what he's doing, much greater powers than anyone else would want in the world. I understand that the king, I understand that the emperor, I understand that Tito has appointed ambassadors and consuls, and those who wash windows there, and those who kill emigration -- that I understand all, there are such people in life. But that one democratic government, which is said to be democratic, takes over, reading the modest scientific books of the communist era, their manners as manners for good governance over the people, cannot believe that. In particular, I cannot believe that Mr. Micunovic, who had the courage to speak against the Law on Chambers of Commerce, does not now raise his voice against the Foreign Affairs Act. Mr. Micunović, if I value someone there in that parliamentary group or in the DS, if I have to tell someone, it's you. I'll always tell you because I respect what you've done in your life. I was not a witness to what they accuse you of, and I am a witness to what you did well. Mr. Micunovicu, this law is not in line with your understanding of the state or democracy, nor with the books you read, nor with the books you recommended to your students. I'd ask you to get out of that gang, because it's a gang that's gonna embarrass all those who help her... (President:Time. Will you use the time of your parliamentary group, to continue, or will you finish? I'm done, I'm sorry... It'll ruin anyone who's there. So please, Mr. Micunović, think carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21100	Mrs. Pesic, would you please re-apply? The word is Mrs. Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21101	I have really important objections to this law. Here, my colleague Dragoljub Micunovic was called. I'll say some things, and Micun can fill me in, if necessary, when it comes to this law. You could, as chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, say something about this law. In this first term, there are actually two changes. It is said that on a proposal from the government, the government approves of the ministry's work systems. It explains that the foreign ministry has far more rankings than it normally does in state services, that there are at least twice as many jobs, officials by rank, than in other state institutions, above all, in ministries. And that's exactly right. I'm asking a question to the Minister who's here whether it's a new systemization, because that's how it has been so far, that you have a number of jobs at the Foreign Ministry, which are official and official jobs, that don't fit that official law because this service is specific. That also applies to the DKP. So, is something new going on? Is it about the new systemisation that these places have been deployed so far, or is it now a novelty, and a new systemisation is being prepared where government approval is required on a proposal from the minister? It is not clear what has been done so far, by which law and by which systematization, because that difference has existed so far. So this isn't clear. The second question about this first member concerns security matters. A year and a half ago in this assembly, we passed a roof law on state security services, and no security matters are foreseen in that law, some special service to be regulated, according to this law, underlaws, because this service is not provided for by the main roof law on state security services. Here again, the minister is asked to regulate the way this service works or, they say, security matters. My key question is, who does this service or these matters of national security even answer to? We know it's a very small responsibility to the National Security Service, but at least formally, we all know that it is the parliament in charge. What we get in parliament, that's another question, but the form, if nothing else, is fulfilled. When it comes to this security service, the Foreign Ministry, once called the SMIP, doesn't know if it's still being called now, seems to be the executive government itself, the minister himself, as if he's founded some kind of service himself, because on his proposal, that service is being sublegally arranged and the government gives permission. So, the government only gives permission and it seems to me that the minister has some kind of service, which he's in charge of and who's responsible for, and that there's no one in charge, there's no democratic control of this service or these security matters. That's the problem when it comes to Article 1 of the amendment of this law. There's no one relevant who can explain what this is about. Last time Foreign Minister Mr. Vuk Jeremic did not want to say a single word about these legal changes and proposals, so we have indeed remained in great doubt what this is all about and how these security jobs are done in the foreign ministry. When it comes to Article 3, I have to agree with the predecessors who have already spoken a lot about this article. This is about the possibility of hiring for a certain time in full-time relations to four years of people who are sent without competition to Serbia's diplomatic-consular representations. As far as I know, it was possible before, I'll read to you, please, I'm quoting now, to take that time away from me. In the current article 42, it reads: "In exceptional cases, when the needs of diplomatic service such conditions, the minister may, without conducting the competition, make a solution to admission to work in a working relationship to an indefinite period of time of persons with appropriate experience in scientific research, significant diplomatic experience, professional knowledge and skills or experience in working in international and other organisations." You see, the largest number of ambassadors (come on, I can't say the largest number, I don't know what the percentage is professionally, those who are already employed by the DKP as a diplomatic chamber, and how many of these by scientific research and experience mean ambassadors who are being placed on the political line), but a large number of ambassadors have been appointed by this member so far. I ask the question – what are the other people who are now in the DKP for four years? So, there's already that by now. I must say, in front of all my colleagues here, I was appointed as an ambassador to Mexico by this member, as a scientific worker, as an experienced politician, etc. I was set up under the criteria, no competitions, as well as many current ambassadors who went without competition to ambassadors' seats in certain countries. It really raises the question of who are these others who can go through without competition, because there's some description here, that these are people who have certain special experiences, they're dealing with scientific research, so they have certain qualifications. However, this second category is not said for anything, which are people who have the right to establish a working relationship and are waiting for them with their employer for four years, including their spouse. I don't know if they're people who go like spies, so we don't need to know who they are, we don't need to be told. Is that BIA setting up some kind of people, so then the minister is there as some kind of flow water heater that needs to set up such people without competition. I'm asking this question not only because we can assume what was just said -- that the party line will fill the DKP with some kind of party faces, that we should hire them, that we should put them somewhere, that we owe someone somewhere, so that we can do it to him for four years abroad -- we can assume all that, but I'm asking the question of responsibility. If the minister can do this to these lower officers, so it's not about the ambassadors, because it's already covered by this first member and the old law... We had an almost large sandal with Miladin Kovacevic. I'm not going to re-expose the case, but the minister and the entire ministry have also declared themselves completely irresponsible when it came to the case of Consul Igor Milosevic, who signed, issued a travel document, falsified, made a false statement in court in America. We had huge problems, the citizens paid a million dollars for it, no one at the ministry answered for it, and now we're giving the possibility that, without any responsibility, a minister who declared himself not responsible for the officers who were at the consulate in New York, again, without any control, without any competition, could place some people in the DKP who are not responding to anyone alive. Something like this is really incomprehensible. That after scandals like this that we've had with people in the DKP, no one in the ministry is responding afterwards, and that citizens pay that kind of money, it's really totally unacceptable. Now I'd like to ask a question that's not about this law, but it is about a relationship, so I'm going back to this law. Perhaps you, Mrs. Diana, could answer us. The economy and regional development ministry has set up and opened a competition for 20 or 30 economists to deploy in the DKP, to our embassies, which should be engaged in attracting foreign investment. I read in the paper that any such job should cost us from the budget of 75,000 euros. Please, answer me as an economist – is there any study, any research showing that such a huge investment can be paid off, or is it now a push again, as Mr. Jeremic will get the opportunity to hire some people without any control over the DKP, so Mr. Dinkic will also get the possibility, allegedly through the competition, to hire some people? Because, as you know, they have their advisors here, there are consulting houses. Do we, by attracting investment, by regulating the situation in the country, do we do that? I can tell you as a former ambassador that there are no economic affairs in which the ambassador does not participate abroad, nor will such an embassy officer anyone will receive without an ambassador. So far, the DKP chiefs have had the authority to attract investment and carry out these jobs, and it was not necessary to open new jobs on the burden of the budget, where we again do not know who they are responding to and in what way, whether they correspond to the foreign minister or to Mr Dinkic, who sends them there. Now I'm going back to what was before. It is said that these places without competition for four years, where a working relationship rests, where no risk takes place, even if it is in a working relationship, brings it back to some employer, and to him and his wife, that it is 5% of the total number of jobs in embassies and consulates. I ask the question - do we know the absolute number, because we don't know it here, except that the Foreign Ministry delivers it to us, do we know what the total number of these places is, so we know what 5% is? Is it 5% three people or 100 people? We don't know what the 5% of the total number of systematic seats in the diplomatic and consular departments is. There's a very big difference in that number. Please answer this question, because it's really incomprehensible when you say 5% of the total. So you have to say what's total, so we can say what's the number of people, see how much damage it's going to do. Because the greater the number of such people who will enter the DKP without any control, without any competition, the greater the damage. I underline that Article 42 was fully sufficient for the foreign ministry's needs to increase its capacity in the DKP, as it has done so far. And as you have noticed so far, even this criteria of reputation for ambassadors are no longer valid, but they go to embassies of people who have no reputation, for which no one lives knows who they are, and they go to big and important countries. And then, on the other hand, the possibility opens up for other people to be given by the same criteria as whether someone belongs to a companion, whether they're closing up, singing somewhere, all holding microphones and then choosing in that singing society who's going to be the ambassador here, who's going to be there, and they need their own staff who are being rehired without competition. I think this law and this law supplement is a great shame, and when it's said to be a successful human policy, that it's raising our diplomatic opportunities and influence to a higher level, that rationalization is being introduced, etc., I think this kind of explanation is really unacceptable. I'm not going to use any stronger word, but it really doesn't make any sense that it's like the great progress of our diplomatic service that no one can be employed in such places without a competition, and that the ministry is disowning such people, so they say, we don't know who these people are and why they did it, and then these people are gossiping, and they're not responsible for anything. So far, I'm going to end up with the possibility of hiring all the people who work at the ministry, who are already there, to be employed for four years, and that's kind of the maximum under the current Foreign Affairs Act, and then for these "flyers" for four years, for a certain time without competition, it also predicts the same period of four years. The question arises whether it is possible for one ministry where there are so many employees, where a systematisation that is very wide and much wider than it is in other ministries needs someone outside to engage. Isn't it possible for the ministry, as the law says, to refer to people who already work in the ministry for four years, and especially what systematization is allowed and giving the minister the opportunity to predict and some other jobs he needs, not to put under control for those four years some people who are not in employment in the ministry and who don't respond to anyone? (President: Time. ) I would ask Mrs. Minister to explain to me on the economic side this question that I asked, I believe you are at least competent and you can tell us if it makes any sense for us to make that kind of money out of the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21102	Mr. Milos Aligrudic has his word. Here you go. You speak as an authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21103	No, I'm wasting my Parliament group's time on amendments. In fact, this law is equally short and equally meaningless. It consists of only six members and some explanation given to us under this bill, which I suppose should explain why all this is done here. At first glance, starting with this amendment that we are talking about, it is clear that it has occurred to someone that, in these circumstances, we are going into a kind of privatisation of foreign affairs. Of course, at first sight it is in Article 1 which speaks of internal arrangement, systematization of jobs, etc. He doesn't see anything controversial. It is not a disputed solution for the government to pass a sublegal general legal act, so it is not disputed that the minister proposes it either. There is a member of this law that has been given the amendment, including those on which, for example, we have not given amendments, which does not raise certain issues. In Article 1, one of the issues is – what do we need this kind of avaism, what was it about, such as security jobs within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? I don't see why fostering such an institute in this way, why succumbing to that avast approach. In the end, where's the analysis of how much it costs? And finally, where is the mechanism of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to exercise any control over these security matters? He doesn't exist. Wherever the words "security jobs" are mentioned, a special mechanism of parliamentary control is needed. He hasn't been established here, he doesn't exist. Furthermore, when it comes to other things in this law, they are all about technical nature, but the question is why, let's say later in Article 3, we intervene once, according to me an amazing provision, which speaks of the temporary employment of a particular circle of persons who are later protected (and we'll talk about it later) so on. Restricted working relationship with its employer, with no description of the quality of those persons to be employed. We don't even know who these people are. I understand when ambassadors are received, I understand when other people are admitted to diplomatic-consular representations with a specific job, which is why people are referred to these functions. I don't get it. On that basis, someone who's a driver can get a job at a diplomatic-consular office, so because he's so exceptional and knows how to drive a job with another employer, where he usually drives a car or I don't know what else he's doing, his qualification is to have a "B" license. The amazing things are written here. When it comes to Article 1, we have also given some amendments, but believe me, when you look at our amendments, you can see, no offense, that it is about the indisposedness of the parliamentary group that has remained infatuated over the stupidity it has before it. We just didn't know what to write as amendments to this bill. We wrote something so we could have a chance to answer the word. This is something you can't vote for. Here, now he's out of the O.R. Dragoljub Micunovic, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the National Assembly. He scheduled a meeting of the Committee today at 1200 hours to hold this bill of law and debate in particular. How can he do that? How can you do that? Shouldn't he have scheduled a board session earlier, the other day? So, the amendment session is under way today, Professor. Dragoljub Micunovic schedules a session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs with this agenda at 12.00 hours, and now it is 23 minutes to 12 hours. Correction would impose, as in other cases where we were all participants, to take a break until the Foreign Affairs Committee's decision on these amendments. If you'd never done it before, I wouldn't have suggested it, because I'd say it's petty, I'd say I'm a petty. And as it has been a practice so far, here, I have not reported to the Rules of Procedure, but I have taken the first chance to report on the amendment, and I will now give you this proposal, President. Let's take a break, see what the Foreign Affairs Committee's decision is on these amendments, then let's get back to work. Or maybe there's a problem? Maybe you don't have time, maybe you've recalculated? That's not why we're the victims here, neither are you. When I say you've recalculated, I don't mean you as Parliament Speaker, you know what I'm talking about. So we shouldn't be victims of that. Having a problem with some other agenda points you're trying to put into this session these days, so you can't, so you're going to do some override, that's also your problem. What you're planning to do next week isn't working, which the public doesn't know yet. ..... Okay, maybe you'll start some session, there's an emergency session in progress, and how are you going to vote? Probably not next week, but the ones after her. Well, that could be it. And you're likely to re-schedul a session with agenda points that are seven days before the session and leave the MPs with one or two days to write the amendments, as you did last time. That's not how it works. This is not the bill of law delivered to the National Assembly, which, by its capacities and wits, is equal to the law passed by Nenad Canak against fascist manifestations and so on. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the authorised government representative present here must feel responsible when writing something like this. The happiness of Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic is that she has not had the opportunity to attend many times in such scenes. Maybe once, when it was an amendment to the Expropriation Act. And here she is right here, and she feels obliged to listen to everything that we're talking about, where we're absolutely right and where the foreign minister, who's supposed to be here, sits on Roland Garros today, but not because he loves tennis a lot and doesn't like the National Assembly, but probably later, after they wrote this to him, after he gave this to the government to adopt, eventually read this. You don't need an IQ greater than 120 or 110 to figure out what it says here. Since he couldn't withdraw the bill, because it's quite complicated (politically, above all), then it was much easier for him not to be here when this law was defended. Why? Well, I wouldn't be here. If I had a bill like this in front of the National Assembly, I wouldn't be here, I'd run out and let somebody else go, especially someone who covers a whole other area. But there will be an amendment to Article 4 of the bill, which we will discuss, so we will have something to ask Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic about because it is, as the law explains, about some financial means, and we will talk about it a little later.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21104	Thank you. Do any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banović and Dragan Šormaz together submitted an amendment to Article 1. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Shormaz wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21105	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of the amendment and addition of this law. A lot more or less has already been said in the previous debate about what this is about and what are our biggest remarks. In fact, in one part of this amendment at point 26 of this article, after saying "in co-operation with other competent authorities unanimously" we added the words "the Constitution and". The reasoning we received from the Government that this amendment is not accepted says: "Amendman is not accepted, because the provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act are clear, if interpreted in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on Ministrys". Otherwise, I will speak for more than two minutes, count it at the time of my parliamentary group. ) They may be clear, although this whole amendment and supplementation of the law is not clear to anyone at all, nor why it is done in any way. The provisions of this law may be, if interpreted in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on Ministries, clear and people's MPs. I suppose most of them are, but it's just the minister who's not here who's here that's not clear. I'm going to give a concrete example of why they're not clear to him and why it turned out, based on practice, that this amendment should have been accepted. I received an answer from the government, signed by Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, on my parliamentary issue concerning the participation of troops of the Republika Srpska Army in military maneuvers in Georgia organised by the criminal NATO. On December 28, 2008, at the proposal of Minister Jeremic, the foreign ministry -- and it was not known in public, it was only late to be known, just days before Djurdjevdan, when our soldiers were to go there, was accused of the defence minister that he had proposed it, and it turned out not to be, but to be suggested by Minister Jeremic -- the government has reached a conclusion that the government has decided to refer soldiers to these maneuvers. Later, a few days before our troops left after the public pressure, Minister Jeremic also submitted to the government a proposal to withdraw the decision, due to foreign relations and that Russia opposes these maneuvers and what is happening in the unfortunate Caucasus region and at an unfortunate moment, as if he could not know in December, as a man who runs foreign affairs, because several months earlier they were conflicts in Georgia and every serious diplomat and minister knew that Russia would have something against these maneuvers. It is obvious that because of this minister and such people, such a formulation must stand in the bill of law. The government of the Republic of Serbia, when it made that decision, was obliged to send it to parliament for ratification because of Article 140. The constitution makes it clear that only parliament can decide whether members of our army will participate in an international mission and any involvement of a single Serb soldier cannot be done without parliament's decision. It is also clear by Article 140. The Constitution. After all, we now have the procedure and the engagement of our troops in Chad and the Central African Republic, so I cannot be sent there until Parliament discusses it. No paper related to the participation of our soldiers in military maneuvers in Georgia has arrived in parliament, not one single, never, and almost people go there. If we hadn't found out, it would have been the biggest disgrace in the history of Serbia's military and the state of Serbia, for Serbian soldiers to be sent to the Russian border to participate in the maneuvers of those working directly against Russia and Russian interests. Never, not a second, not a moment, not a single letter, not a single piece of paper, parliament has been informed of that. That is why this amendment should be accepted. I urge the parliamentary majority to think carefully and accept this amendment, because the government rejected it with an explanation that does not stand entirely. On their own case, they showed it. So what do we have now? Instead of discussing it with the minister because I got an answer to the question and I expect him to explain to me here why he suggested it, in which there is no unserious way. The man is in Roland Garros, with the president of the state. Sarkozy, who hosted our president yesterday, wherever he is going, goes with his new wife, Karl Bruni, and Boris Tadic goes everywhere with Jeremic. The Beijing Olympics -- Boris Tadic with Jeremic, Roland Garos -- Boris Tadic and Jeremic -- are opening. Then he goes to visit the President of France. What do we hear? What's new about what we've heard from the president of France and Boris Tadic, and what haven't we heard a million times since 2001? France supports Serbia's entry into the EU, France supports democratic reforms in Serbia, France does not seek any additional visa liberalisation requirements in Serbia, France is a friend of Serbia – we have heard this as many times as you want since 2001. What'd we hear? Where are the investments? Where's international law? Why was France one of the largest advocates in the United States and Britain for the arrival of Eulex to Kosovo? Why was all that was done? Why is what happens in Kosovo? Why is it that on the same day that Tadic and Jeremic are at Sarkozy, the KIM minister can't enter KIM, they won't let him in? They're being photographed, and these same EULEX representatives down there, among whom there are many Frenchmen, are not letting our minister enter the KIM. What are you doing with Serbia? You MPs are guilty of it because you support them for it. You MPs support such a government, support Jeremic to do so, support Tadic to do so. Finally, what is also important to accept this amendment and why it is important to maintain, at this point more important than anything, a referendum on whether Serbia should join NATO or not? Says the minister of the military - no one calls us there. It's true, NATO doesn't ask us to join NATO. Because it's not the point, the thing is that NATO wants to enter Serbia, that's the difference. NATO wants to enter Serbia, NATO does not want Serbia to join NATO. They don't need us that way. They look at us completely different than others, and they want to come in, continue the occupation of Serbia that they started with Bondsteel and Kosovo, and they need such power. That is why, at a small door, through such authorities as Croatia entered NATO without a referendum, although the public is against, they want to enter Serbia, they want to occupy Serbia. And that's why the referendum needs to say no to NATO, and we all know that the people will say that. Serbia is a military neutral state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21106	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. Mr. Milos Aligrudic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21107	I believe that your predecessor Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I think that this injury occurred just before I made my announcement. Namely, I approached the chair table about five minutes ago to warn of the following circumstances, which is that the president of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 27(4), is obliged to take care of the timely and coordinated work of the National Assembly's working bodies and I made a proposal, because I could not take it out in another way except by approaching, to take a break in the work of the plenary session of the National Assembly, because Dragoljub Micunovic, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has scheduled the same committee for 12.00 hours, where, among other things, the amendments to this bill are being discussed. I know that there is no provision in the Rules of Procedure that says that a session must be interrupted if there is a session of the Committee, and vice versa, that the chair of the Committee must not schedule a committee session if the plenary session is under way, but this member of the Rules of Procedure commits the President of the National Assembly, and that means the other chairman, and that means now that you, too, have heard this argument, that you are taking care of the coordinated and timely work of the body. Since you have not done so in good time, and it is not too late to do so and now, at the warning given to you, I ask you best, as Slavica Djukić-Dejanović has already broken the Rules of Procedure, that you do not continue to do so and that at 12.00 hours you do one of the two things: or you, as someone who is authorized, I hope, by Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, or that she personally does so, ask the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to at least hold a session of the Committee at 1200 hours. I don't have time anymore. We understand each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21108	The word, according to the Rules of Procedure, has Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21109	Mr. Novakovic, I expected you to respond to your colleague Aligrudić, or say if you accept this proposal. I'm reporting from article 149. Rules of Procedure. A colleague Aligrudić, however, has even a business obligation, as Article 149 says that the legislator, committees and governments are obliged to consider amendments submitted to the bill and to inform the National Assembly about which amendments they propose to be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected. So we do not insist, of course, on doing this before the National Assembly session, because it is now impossible, but in any case, before considering the amendments. You've seen this debate from the very beginning. It is obvious that all MP groups from opposition parties insist on amendments related to the bill. Especially since we do not have an adequate representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia here, Article 149 should be acted on because the decision of the committee responsible would depend on the further debate and the length of the debate. Because it may happen that all amendments are accepted on the Committee, accepted on behalf of the Government by Mrs Dragutinovic and that we no longer have the basis to discuss these amendments. It's very important that we don't talk here in vain if some amendments are accepted. So we have to act in accordance with Article 149, Mr. Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21110	We are now acting in accordance with Article 149. So the answer is this: there is no breach of article 27, because it is precisely the efficiency of this Parliament's work. Taking a break, by my estimate, would only mean spending too much time in the middle of nowhere. The Foreign Affairs Committee analyses the amendments adopted by the government and has just completed its work. The service will prepare the texts very quickly as necessary, to see which amendments will be accepted on the Committee and which will not. This does not prevent MPs from discussing amendments, whether or not the government will accept them later. It is also the possibility for MPs to convince the government of their decision, so if it happens twice, it means that we have made very good quality amendments. You're not satisfied? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21111	Mr. Novakovic, you've never given me a chance to claim that you're insulting the Rules of Procedure, but that's the first time you've done it today, at least in my presence. How can you, when someone addresses you for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, give an answer to that violation of the Rules of Procedure (by the way, he was also late, after you gave it to another MP) not to accept that there is a violation of Article 27, as well as a member of 149, to which Ms. Verica Radeta referred, and to explain this by giving a break in the work of the National Assembly session would be reluctant? How can you not be ashamed? We suggest you take a break so we can do the job properly, not so we don't. What is reluctant is seen on my right, honors the exceptions that are present here. On my right, they don't care what we're doing here today. They don't care what the amendments are, they don't care about the bill of their own ruling coalition and the government of the Republic of Serbia. Because if they were interested and interested in this, I suppose someone would go to that government of the Republic of Serbia, by these MPs, and say, "people, you can't stand this kind of nonsense, it's embarrassing." Who stayed here on the line of defense? Only the opposition. What time do you talk about? You've made changes to the Rules of Procedure on which you can manipulate (that's a good word) you, and not us, we wouldn't handle anything in this house, but you can handle 100 laws in a month. There is no such thing in any national parliament in the world. And you're talking about it so it'll be a cause of dishappiness?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21112	Thank you. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, because you didn't call any members. If you're not satisfied with that explanation, do you want the Parliament in voting day to plead the injury you pointed to? Yeah. ) In the day of voting, the assembly will declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure to which the MP and head of the DSS Group, Mr Milos Aligrudic, appeared at today's meeting. The word is Mr. Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21113	Mr. Chairman, and how rudely injured the Rules of Procedure. See Articles 78 and 79, which explain and specify the work of the committee responsible for the law. Here's the board you say was held, and it wasn't maintained. He's scheduled for 12.00 hours. It hasn't been maintained and it won't even be maintained because there's no quorum. So we won't get the board's opinion. If we get it, when will we get it, when the debate is over? When we start talking about statistics, why did the minister come here and come to put up with all this? Secondly, it clearly states here that the Committee is obliged to invite MPs who have submitted amendments. I just explained one amendment. The board never asked me to explain my amendment to him, not for a moment. Maybe the Committee would accept it, maybe we wouldn't be discussing it right now, maybe I wouldn't say that Tadic and Jeremic are walking everywhere together and attending the openings of sporting events while others are running wives, that I'm allowed to say that on the Committee. Or, in Article 79, it clearly states: "At the request of a member of the committee, his separate opinion on the draft act in principle, which he presented at the committee session, will be presented in the committee's report and he shall have the right to explain it at the beginning of the search on the proposal for an appropriate act at the National Assembly's session." So they have the right of people to do a lot of work here, and none of it's done. You will now say that this is a debate in particular. When was the session about discussing it? Never, not a moment. It wasn't even held. Not before, not now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21114	No breach of Article 79. (Dear Shormaz: Let the Parliament be declared on Vote Day.) ) According to Article 141(5), unless the committee responsible delivers a report or Government opinion, the proposal will also be considered without those opinions. The Assembly will also declare in the vote on your dissatisfaction in the day of the vote. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21115	Article 27, point 3, so far, no one has called for that, so you don't give me a warning. So, your obligation is to respect the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Novakovic, when you sit in that seat. I am truly more than surprised that you as a graduate lawyer in this way, or in the way someone has told you, interpret the Rules of Procedure. Believe me, since you have an attorney's office, it's not a commercial for that part of your job. You didn't comment on a member of 149 I just called, and you were under obligation. Now I ask you once again to comment on where there is no obligation of the board of directors in Article 149, and I claim, of course, that there is. In fact, that's what you prescribed in the Rules of Procedure, against which we, Serbian radicals, voted. So, in my explanation, in that first report, I said that a possible interruption of the session and that we should wait for the Committee to finish its work to save time in Parliament's work if the Committee would accept some amendments, and you said very boldly that the interruption of the session would lead to unhappiness. I don't know if you were thinking about the day before yesterday, when we had to wait here for an hour and take a break before the very beginning because there weren't enough MPs for the ruling majority. And today there are only fifteen of them, yesterday there were at one point eight. Here and now, for the sake of the public, the Committee was not maintained, it was delayed because the ruling majority did not provide quorum. Whatever, please make the National Assembly's vote day known...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21116	There's no harm to the member of the Rules of Procedure you're referring to. I'm taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. In case the board gets hurt by the Rules of Procedure, I think that's where the injury should be done and solved. As far as the Committee's session is concerned, if it hasn't been held, then there's no reason for us to continue this discussion. I'm sorry if that session wasn't held, but as you can see, I don't know because I'm here in the O.R. (Verica Radeta: To be declared by the National Assembly on both interventions, and by Article 27 and 149). In voting day, the Assembly will declare the injuries sustained by Mrs Radeta today, and this is a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure and Rule 149 by the Chairman today. Thank you. The word is Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21117	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I believe that the dignity of the Members of the People has been truly injured in this way in the conduct of the session. We're practically injured here from the opposition, because we've been called not to work. Mr. Chairman, MPs and colleagues before me are clear to you, especially Mr. Aligrudic has told you that a session of the Committee must be held, and you have called a break and a normal communication in parliament a dissatisfaction. It is rude to violate the dignity of the MPs of the people and for this reason that for any law that requires an authorised proposing and one with which MPs should establish communication, which is, in particular, Mr Jeremic, not there and we are constantly going beyond the fact that for certain laws, you are sending ministers who cannot make communication with the MPs. We had a Chamber of Commerce Development Fund and you sent us the Minister of Telecommunications. Permanently and deliberately, from day to day, days and months, you've been making such a problem in the National Assembly that you're sending incompetent ministers for certain points of the agenda. This has already become commonplace. Practically never at the session were competent authorised ministers under certain laws. Please, and the President of the National Assembly, don't do that in the future. Mrs Dragutinovic is obviously here by force of opportunity. The colleagues also said that there are more important jobs in the country than there are here today to discuss a law for which Mrs Dragutinovic certainly...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21118	Thank you. Time's up. There's no breach of Article 104. I didn't say, and if we listen very carefully, it's not nice to comment on something that's not said. And no one can convince me that pause is work. Therefore, I still don't think there are any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Spasojevic, if you are not satisfied, the Assembly will declare in the voting day. Thank you, so the Parliament will decide in voting day. Anyone else want a word on Mr. Shormaz's amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government has accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The committee has not spoken out and for this reason... The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. And this amendment has been accepted by the government, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Marash, you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21119	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Chairman, just now, after everything the debate was about, you said that no one can convince you that it's a break. It's not about a break for... (President: Just say which member, please. ) Articles 27, 104 but also in line with 98. Mr. Chairman, it's a break and a respect for procedure. (President: These members have already been the subject of a debate according to the alleged violations of the Rules of Procedure on which the Assembly will plead in the voting day. ) Article 98 is not. Mr. Chairman, you've done a violation of the Rules of Procedure after that. So, with the last line you said. I had no intention of participating in this debate, I think my colleague Aligrudic explained it best. You said afterwards that no one could convince you that it was a break of work. It's not that someone wants to take a break for a while. The point is to comply with the procedure. If we could swallow to get to us at the beginning of the meeting notice that Dr Diana Dragutinović is an authorised promoter here, Minister of Finance, who could tell us a lot of other things and not about this law, if we could agree that, when there was a previous set of laws, without three laws that didn't come, let's say, on the Committee on Agriculture, we're discussing them, respect one procedure. I don't think it's gonna hurt anybody for 15 minutes, and if that doesn't happen, it's gonna hurt, first of all, the Parliament's reputation and you, as the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21120	Of course, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think I've already answered everything. If you insist on the provision of Article 98, I have no intention of interrupting the work of the Assembly. If you're not satisfied, we'll come to the voter's vote. No need? Thank you very much. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Vladan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21121	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the SRS Group to Article 1(1). The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreign Affairs, where after the word "Government" is replaced by a point, and the rest of the text is deleted, is another essential attempt, I would say, that the legal framework and the importance of the activities of one of the most significant ministries within the government are being framed. Given the situation and importance of diplomacy today in world relations, the SRS is of the opinion that strengthening in this area is necessary. However, practical examples and events do not fully give us the right, unfortunately, in our thinking. In doing so, several important aspects are, above all, the fact that the 2009 budget rebalance also reduces the amount of funds for Serbian diplomacy, and it is particularly unacceptable that one generally poor Serbian government policy directly endangers the normal functioning of the foreign ministry. I'm going to remind the public on this occasion that several decisions have affected something like this. First of all, that decision on the unilateral application of the Trade Agreement with EU member states, when a huge deficit has been made in the state register, and any well-intentioned citizen of Serbia is clear what, for example, the effect of these funds could cause them to, for example, be directed towards strengthening the diplomatic fight for the preservation of KIM within the Republic of Serbia. In this way, some diplomatic victories present only the prolonging of individual countries' decisions, as has recently been the case with the Arab world countries, although it is well known that the main drivers of international relations, so the EU and the United States, which are presented to the local public as friends of Serbia, and the defacto is known that their views are diametrically different from those of friendly ones. The very fact that this session, when it comes to amendments and additions to the Foreign Affairs Act, is attended by the finance minister alone can be linked to the fact that poor diplomacy and even worse economic policy and has allowed Serbia to have an external debt of about $30 billion. The continued borrowing policy, primarily with the IMF, will certainly not do Serbia and its citizens any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21122	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Mladen Grujic and Tomislav Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21123	I am taking the opportunity to meet once again Serbian citizens with new powers taken over by the foreign minister, and these powers are much wider and stronger than those that all other ministers, executives or employers have. Even employers in their private company have some legal obligations regarding employment, which, if this bill, particularly Article 3 passes, the minister will no longer have. I've heard here that some MPs have submitted pointless amendments to this article just to get word. I don't agree with that practice, because it was not necessary to repair this member by forcing the minister to hire someone who knows a foreign language or someone who passed a psychophysical test. No, the minister should be committed to a public competition, with someone who will be admitted to an appropriate job to decide who is in charge of joining the ministry, not Mr. Minister. I don't accept the solution to be 3% instead of 5%, I consider it a pointless amendment. I don't accept the solution that once you've approved him to work like that, you won't let him take the man who's so busy take his spouse, because that's how you separate the family, and the man goes to serve the country. So this member should either delete or accept. Since it's not for acceptance, it can't be fixed. Excuse me, this is what Mr. Tadic and Mr. Jeremic stand out of everyone else and build themselves a platform that this party they are now leading in co-operation with 16 other small parties, that the state they are leading in co-operation with 14 other small parties, that this party assumes all the ministries, all the state functions. As under the Ministry Act, there are many people, tens of hundreds of thousands of employees, who you can't fire in the next five years, on no basis at all, without paying them high severance fees, so the DS is preparing to be after the next election, and they will have to be even if you don't want them, or they will be extraordinary, and I don't believe that you can welcome regular ones, to leave your people in all places, and even those who provide embassies, even those who code messages there, even those who listen to conversations, so that you can also choose new authorities, which will also be chosen by the citizens of Serbia, the people, prevent their jobs from doing right. This is a member who paints the understanding of democracy, the understanding of the state, the understanding of the state's interests. This is a member where DS says he's taller, that he's above the state, that he's out of state. That's what I've seen in individuals in my life so far, and here's what a whole party is institutionally asking for to be placed above the state. Because if you hire all the ministries of your people, what kind of change of government can it take? You're used to not changing power for nine years and never being asked what you've been doing in the past. The time has come to change power. Fortunately, there is a SNS that can beat you. Otherwise, those who boast that they will come to power can continue to boast, and help you to fix a law that actually gives you enormous rights. We vote for this amendment, and for the amendments of the other Members to this article, except for the amendment of MP Mladen Grujic, we will not vote because it is not in line with our understanding of the state's interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21124	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Article 104 - the dignity of the National Assembly. It's obvious that some have started to use that drug that the Turks brought here to Serbia, but it appears they've increased the dose, that they've OD'd. As I see it, they'll end up in Black River with Mr. Peranovic, so after a three- or four shovels, they'll probably have some things cleared up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21126	There's no breach of Article 104. Mr. Zoran Krasic wants a word. First Mrs. Djeric? Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21127	Mr Mladen Grujic, on behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group, submitted an amendment to Article 3 which asked for this proposed member of the law to be deleted, primarily because it is contrary to the Law on Civil Servants. One law cannot put another law above all laws, or one minister put above all laws in the state and give him authority to allow laws or at least some laws or parts of the law not to apply. No one can be excluded from the laws passed in the state. On the contrary, the first people in the country must obey the law most seriously. What would it say, and how will this adopted change in the text of the Foreign Affairs Act likely take place? "The minister can make a solution without conducting an internal and public competition on the admission of other persons to a working relationship for a certain period of up to four years, in order to carry out appropriate jobs in the diplomatic and consular representation. The number of employees who establish a working relationship in accordance with the position of the 2nd member cannot exceed 5% of the total number of systematicised jobs in diplomatic and consular representations. The employee of the position of the 2nd member who, during the duration of the employment relationship at the Ministry, is absent from the work of the employer in whom the rights and obligations of the employer are at rest in a working relationship are at work and on the basis of work - according to the law governing the work. The right to remain in a working relationship is also his spouse while staying abroad with him. "The diplomacy, which is a significant representative of Serbia in the world, has pretty much died for Serbia these years. What diplomats need to do, what they used to do and were recognizable in the world, these years is done only in one ministry and in the Office of the President of the Republic. All embassy intelligence has been taken over by two men. Diplomacy exists most likely, and this member will definitely get it legal if it is adopted, and will probably adopt, to be, in fact, party diplomacy. We are safely and unsustainably moving towards the one-party system, and all single-party systems are very dramaticly ending. Hopefully there'll be some sobering before any dramatic setting.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21128	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21129	I believe that this law is extremely important, despite the fact that there are only a few members who are changing the existing provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act. This member is important, above all, because he shows us that we don't really know who's leading this country's diplomacy. To remove some of the delusions that have been heard in the debate so far. For 30 and a few years, the wives of those working in the diplomatic and consular representations of our country abroad have had one of the rights of employment, that their working relationship in Serbia rests while they are abroad with their wife, and they have also had the right to pay contributions in order to avoid losing their employment. However, this change was not done because it was not supposed to change. This change is done to secure the position of those who create our diplomacy. I must draw public attention to the fact that once the foreign minister was a vice-prime minister, that he was the country's representative abroad, that no one from this country could go abroad and represent the alleged interests of this country, and that he had previously not received something called a platform, consent or guidance from the Foreign Ministry, and it was known that when someone came from abroad, if he spoke to the president of the state, the Prime Minister, he was required to speak to the foreign minister. Now, thanks to the regulations that have been passed over the last eight years, we have a situation that can be called – every village lice. Anyone from the ministry can talk and negotiate with a panda from abroad. It's something amazing. Where's the single state policy? Just to remind you what happened in 2000, when Goran Svilanovic broke into the foreign ministry. That's when the communications system between the embassy and the Foreign Ministry changed, so it didn't work out with some codes, depecs, but ordinary faxes. It's one of the examples of how our diplomacy collapsed. Of course, that process hasn't been stopped. This article, which is covered by these amendments, is important because, past so far known standards, the foreign minister receives, literally speaking, unlimited discretionary authority. That kind of discretionary authority is beyond control, which is why we can't even vote for it. Because the Constitution and the law should be the means of restrictions on that kind of absolute discretion of any individual who, as an authorised official, performs on behalf of a state body. A new category is being introduced here, hiring for a certain period of up to 4 years without competition, without knowing what the criterion is, or whether this circumstance occurred, absolutely nothing that could serve as a condition for verifying whether the minister has exceeded discretionary authority. In this way, if this member is adopted or, to be more precise, if the law is adopted complete, and it is clear to all that the SRS will not vote for this law, then practically no one can control the minister whether he has committed the abuse of his official position, whether he has exceeded his official powers. What's given him is imperial authority. These are the powers of monarchs. The monarch can do such a thing. He became a fact of birth. Serbia, thank God, is the Republic, so each of the civil servants must both their labour obligations and their powers to adapt to what is written in the Constitution and what stands as a restriction in some law. Finally, to draw your attention, Mrs Dragutinovic, as finance minister, is competent for this law, because our entire foreign policy is foreign debt policy. Let me remind you, in 1990, the former SFRY owed 22 billion dollars, and by the second budget it was $30 billion. Now the Republic of Serbia, after these cuts (SRJ, the State Community, so now Serbia, so now Kosovo has been kidnapped, etc.) He owes $30 billion. That's what they've done in eight years. They managed to write off a good deal of debt to the Paris and London Club, shut down all domestic banks and increase their debt to what was once a debt to the former SFRY, while selling everything that could be sold in this country and what was attractive to abroad. So Mrs. Diana is authorized for a law like this. However, only a year is the finance minister, but you know who previously was the finance minister, today's Prime Minister, before him this regional development minister who wants to put economic advisers into 20 and some Serbian embassy abroad. What you propose to change is not the interest of the Republic of Serbia, it is not the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What are the effects of your diplomatic efforts abroad? The effect is to visit Roland Garros first, then the Jelisa Palace. Why? At the time of the global financial crisis, which has been staring at Serbia for nine years, we cannot turn the president of the Republic of Serbia to be at Andric's wedding for two days. And that's why he invents bombers, so he invents something just to travel abroad. Serbian citizens are unmistakably aware -- as soon as Boris Tadic is out of the country, something big is being prepared in the country. Just to remind you, last year when they declared independence in KIM, he found himself going to a friend in Romania, so one died outside the US Embassy. Every time he sprays it, he's not in the ground. The picture is taken abroad as a great statesman, as if God knows what they respect abroad, and none of our interests were able to protect, none of our interests could be realized. That is why I call on all MPs to vote against this bill in the voting day or, better yet, not to enter the hall when it is voted, so as not to provide a quorum for the vote of one of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21130	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21131	Thank you, Vice President. For the sake of the public to say, although all MPs have already received a second order of notice from the government, today the government will be represented by Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Services, because Mrs Diana Dragutinovic is likely to have some other and more important work to do and must go, and I understand that, today in the afternoon we expect the entire government here. Obviously, we may not see any of the ministers, because the last Thursday is set, we have two or three hours to ask them certain questions. I'm saying this because it's outrageous, given that it's a very important law, in our opinion, a very important area, could the Prime Minister have appeared, would not have dropped the crown from his head, since the foreign minister is absent. This would show that the Serbian government respects this National Assembly, but since everyone is working to completely degrade this institution, it is clearly preceded by the government itself, and then by all those that the government controls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21132	You have not called on any member of the Rules of Procedure. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please do not abuse the right that the Rules of Procedure allow to advertise the injury. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21133	I have a replica, Mr. Chairman, since my discussion has been misunderstood, but I have to admit that some MPs who misrepresent my discussion are very nice and I am grateful to them for that. If you're already convincing my discussion, don't attack your amendments. I didn't say that this law abolishes the right of a spouse that is provided for in all diplomacys in the world. It's the SRS parliamentary group's amendment that wants to abolish this rightful spouse. So, Mr Krasic should be more careful to follow the session or at least to read what his parliamentary group has submitted. There is an amendment to Gordana Pop-Lazic, which seeks to erase the part about the fact that spouses of persons employed in the DKP, who are sent to work in these representations, enjoy the right to remain in a working relationship. So when you listen and convince what I'm saying, which is very good and what's a good habit, listen all the way to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21134	Thank you. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, aren't you happy with my explanation?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21135	I'm not happy with your explanation. I have failed to say that it is an infringement of Rule 104, but that is understood and I really think that as Vice-President of the Assembly, you should support the MPs who advertise this member of the Rules of Procedure when it comes to the government. Because she's the one elected by the MPs, we're not elected by the government. So, you too bet on the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21136	I absolutely support every MP to the extent that the Rules of Procedure adheres. No injured Article 104. You had no right to even advertise it because it has already been advertised on several occasions. If you're not satisfied with what I've told you, the Assembly will report on the injury in the voting day. Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milos Aligrudic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banović and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I believe that I have the right to these two minutes to explain the amendments regardless of what the Government has accepted because the Assembly has no opinion of the relevant committee, or we do not have the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I am suspicious because if there are opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which will obviously never be held, and we will not get it, but in case it is held, then I do not know how the MPs will vote, whether they will vote in the opinion of the Government or in that opinion of the Committee. In particular, Article 3 amends Article 42 of the existing Foreign Affairs Act, and this sets out, among other things, the possibility of a foreign minister being able to enter, without the implementation of the competition, into a working relationship for a specified time of 5% of employees over four years. Someone already mentioned, we don't even know how much that 5% is until today. So in order to be able to determine how many 5% of these are, we would need to know before that how many total employees there are in diplomatic and consular representations. It could be 20 people, it could be 120 or 1020 people. That's the first problem. The other problem is that this is some kind of lex specialis, or in translation of some special law and special member. Why? Someone who's already been employed somewhere indefinitely can make a second working relationship at a certain time at the Foreign Ministry up to four years. So you have some super-citizens in Serbia. They're not citizens of the first and second order, but they're extra-citizens, super-citizens, who can have two working relationships at the same time, the first one for indefinite time somewhere and the second for a certain time at the Foreign Ministry. And I remind you that, according to the latest data from the National Employment Service, in Serbia, we have 20% of people who are unemployed. So, they don't have any jobs, and here there's an opportunity for some people (I say again, I don't know what number, that's maybe a thousand citizens), who are super-citizens, that they can keep their jobs indefinitely, and they can go on a little trip to the Foreign Ministry because they want to try out in diplomacy, so if they don't like it, they can easily go back to their old jobs. I'll remind you, you all have in your cities and primary and secondary schools, you know how the directors of these institutions are elected. The competition is being held, and then the school board is being declared, and the opinion of the teaching council is also being taken into account, so there is one very complex and serious procedure. In 99% of cases, primary and secondary school directors are selected by teachers. A teacher who has been acting as director for four years is chosen for a salary that is higher, say, 20% of the basic salary of a professor. That man has to call a competition for his old job. So, if he was a professor of Serbian language, he must receive a permanent working relationship, meaning indefinitely, a new Serbian language teacher, and he is out of a job after four years. If there are no classes, he can't go back to his old job. Someone who performs perhaps a much more responsible job than these people who we don't even know what they're going to do in the DKP, because we don't see it from this law, school directors, who, I stress, perform a much more important and much more responsible function in this country, after four years of management, or the director's office, can lose their jobs. These people risk knowingly because they want to improve something in their school institutions even though after four years they can lose their jobs. And we're talking about maybe 1,000 people who have two working relationships at the same time. This not only violates the Labour Relations Act, but this provision needs, gentlemen, to go to the Constitutional Court, to see if this is in any way in accordance with any law in this country, or if this is one terrible lex specialis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21138	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21139	Here, Mr. Novakovic, as we have said, you can see how important this law is, the government's authorised representative has changed. As in hockey, there was just a little bit more of it missing, that punch. Now comes Mr. Milosavljevic. He really has diplomatic experience. At the end of 2001, Zoran Djindjic led to Dubai for the New Year's Eve, where he found a business partner, took pictures and then said - epochal results, diplomatic co-operation, a great victory, will soon come from Dubai with great funds to come to Serbia. It left only a memory of a beautiful New Year's Eve. Anyway, I didn't answer for it. I was just a little while ago because some window was going to land here in the hallway, so I went to lock him up so there was some order in the O.R., so we could talk. Mr. Novakovic, you should warn the government that when it proposes some amendments and some amendments to the law, they still look a little at the books. You know, as far as diplomacy is concerned, volumes and volumes of books have been written. We had and had a great expert on diplomacy, Mrs. Smiljo Avramov, who held a diplomatic school both abroad and taught foreign diplomats how to do the job. Our public needs to understand how devalued our diplomatic service has been for the past eight or nine years. That's terrible. He's a diplomat for everyone. And he who spent more under the plum than he held the book in his hand, or when he held the book in his hand, came across it in his hair, and became sick of his book, so that he no longer took it into his hands. Please, there are some principles, there are some rules, there are things that must be respected, starting with diplomatic protocol, and beyond. This provision that gives these discretionary powers to the foreign minister is something that is unrecorded, something that is not even in the textbooks. There's no such thing written anywhere. Of course there's some kind of scrawny political interest behind it. He's based on the principle of fostering. First of all, foster care. Remember, the assistant foreign minister used to be a professor of the solfes. And you know why he was a solfe professor in diplomacy? Because Zoran Djindjic said -- if she could overcome the solfejo and be so persistent, she'd probably also master the jobs of diplomacy. Please, what's the criterion? It should be the people who represent this country and protect the interests of this country abroad. I could also give you examples of some of our ambassadors who have been protecting the interests of the Republic of Serbia abroad and taking care of citizens of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia when they are abroad, even personally engaged to help citizens. But that's not what we're talking about here. Here we are talking, through this law, through this article and through these amendments, about a kind of abuse, which is legalized by adopting this law. And we're against it. We're against the kind of legalization of something that, I have to tell you, isn't even in the textbooks. That is why it is necessary in life to gain knowledge through books, and not -- a man told me, as we had the opportunity to look at The Hague tribunal, where a expert witness appears, and said -- a man told me that he had been told by a student in Belgrade. Is that serious? It's not serious. There's no way to get it online or on TV. No, it has to be taken through books, whether or not there are hairs in the book - the hair moves and the book is read to the end. In that sense, we're also discussing. I repeat, we won't be here the day this bill is voted on, and in this way we're going to show the public that we don't even want to physically make an impression on someone that we're complicit in what's going on. This won't do any good, it'll be just damage. Because our diplomatic service, you know, is in big trouble. Just to remind you, the minister does not return to work those people who have received a court dispute to return to work, as he does not return or respect the court's decision or governor of the National Bank, or other ministries, or other ministers. That's gotta stop. The principle of legality must prevail. The Constitution and the law must be a framework within which state officials should behave. But if you in law give a door as wide as you're giving it to the foreign minister now, then we don't essentially have a law. Then it is possible that the law only comes down to one member -- it will be as the minister decides. And what are the criteria? I have to draw attention to you, there are some standards (to remind you) from the Council of Europe, which say when the measure can be applied, that the law requires everything to be prescribed, that this corresponds to a democratic society and that there are some legitimate reasons. Here we have a classic example of absolute self-will. We're against a civil servant having that kind of will.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21140	The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. There's a word for Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21141	Mr. Trade and Service Minister, I'm sorry the Prime Minister has ordered you to be a foreign minister, but you're going to have to give him some messages from here. Because Article 3 I have submitted the amendment literally refers to the minister. So not to the government, not to any authority, not to the Ministry, but to the minister. That's why I expect you to meet your courier's obligation and that when the minister returns from tennis, you will say what the remarks of the MPs are on the draft of this law. When it comes to Article 3(1), which I have submitted an amendment to on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I must say, first of all, for some who are here, obviously ignorant and undereducated, have commented on this amendment by calling it pointless, that it and how it makes sense, because everywhere in the world, in all the countries of the world, foreign ministers have certain powers, which existed in Article 42 of the current law, whose amendments are being proposed here, but the question is how it is done, who controls it and the extent of the minister can do so. The main problem of this ministry and this law is the dictatorship introduced in Serbia and the party state at all levels and in all segments. The fact that Minister Jeremic, because he is the minister now, that he is choosing some associates out of the competition will make no difference compared to Mladjan Dinkic and Ivica Dacic choosing their co-workers in the DKP on the basis of the competition. And they will choose their party personnel, as he will choose his party staff here. That's the main problem. I would also draw attention to, that was even more recently, one part of the discussion of the same MP, the so-called MP, who tried to draw attention to the importance of KiM's problems and that this law should not be discussed while these problems exist. True, the problems that exist in KIM are the most important problems in Serbia, but it could not possibly be said by someone who said in February that EULEX is not a good solution, but that it must not be much against talking because the United States is behind Eulex. Now, sir, I don't know who to talk to anymore because I don't think you're competent for this, but here's the thing that people's MPs and the public of Serbia remind me of the period when Goran Svilanovic was foreign minister, when he fired 500 people who were both professionally and experiencedly educated for these jobs. At that time, Goran Svilanovic said that he knows that these people are both professional and experienced in diplomacy, but that he does not care about them for that very reason, which they will manage and have an easy job somewhere. I don't know if he thought they'd be employed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Albania, Croatia... Where is he going, if he got them out of ours? I just want to tell our foreign ministry that there's one problem that's never been spoken of here, not at all at the state level. The problem concerns the property of people who are nationals of some of the SFRJ members. Given that the Serbian state is a legal follower of the SFRY, it would be interesting and necessary to establish through the UN, to be initiated by the Serbian government and the Serbian ministry an international obligation. When he dies, say, in Germany, Chicago, etc. someone who was born in the territory of Republika Srpska, if there are no heirs abroad where he lived and died, then the state in which such a citizen died informs the current Republic of Croatia and is there seeking his successors. If they are not in Croatia, then the Republic of Croatia becomes the owner of the legacy. We think it should insist that Serbia, above all as a legal follower of the SFRY, and on the other hand, it is logical that someone who is from Republika Srpska and dies abroad, has heirs and relatives in Serbia's territory, so I would ask that this topic be discussed and that our ministry intervenes to become an international obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21142	Thank you. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21143	Just for a moment, I would like to say to this MP of the brilliant mind that Serbia is not a legal follower of the SFRY.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21144	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Miss Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21145	Just one sentence to tell someone who really still has to learn and read, first read, then learn. After the SFRJ there was SRJ as a legal follower, then the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro as a legal follower and eventually, as a legal follower of all of them, indirectly from the SFRY, is the state of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21146	Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21147	I'm really interested in where this brilliant mind read that Serbia inherited the SFRY. I'd really like him to explain it to me, since I'm uninformed and I'm just reading books, I'm not only getting informed in phone conversations with the party president. So when did Serbia become a legal follower of the SFRY?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21148	Mr. Martinovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21149	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will try this MP, who obviously has an aversion to books and science, to answer where it says so. It says in the book of Slobodan Jovanovic "The State. The basis of a legal theory." Here is what Slobodan Jovanovic says about what the state is on the foreign policy plan – the state is one series of international contracts. Serbia has inherited all the international contracts it has signed, concluded, or ratified the SFRY, as the SFRY has inherited all the contracts, all international contract rights and obligations of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia of the Kingdom of Serbia. That is, it also confirms that Serbia, therefore an independent Republic of Serbia since 2006, does not have to conclude new international agreements with countries with which international contracts have already been concluded either by the SFRY or the Kingdom of Yugoslavia or the Kingdom of Serbia. And this proves the fact, very important for the Serbian statehood, that the statehood of the Kingdom, that is to say, never before has the Principality of Serbia ceased, especially on the international agenda. We are still bound by contracts concluded by the first government of Nikola Pasic in the late 19th century, for example. It has been marked for over a hundred years to maintain postal ties between Serbia and the United States, but not by the conclusion of contracts with the United States by Slobodan Milosevic or Josip Broz, but by the first government of Nikola Pasic in the last decade of the 19th century. If you look at that contract, it's called the Treaty between the Kingdom of Serbia and the Union of North American States (that's what Serbian lawyers used to call the United States). So, this Republic of Serbia is absolutely a successor to the foreign policy plan not only of the SFRY, but of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and the Kingdom of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21150	This will turn into an internal education, but it is at the expense of the time of your parliamentary groups and obviously speaks of the need to communicate further. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21151	Serbia is a legal follower exclusively of the state Kostunica reported in 2001 to be a member of the UN. We have not transferred the continuity of UN membership, and this is the basis for legal traceability. So, individual contracts, which have been made by all those states that you mention, can either be valid or not, but one thing you forget -- we're a whole new state, created the moment we asked for membership of the UN.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21152	The word has first Mr. Martinovic and then Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21153	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a shame that Slobodan Jovanovic is not alive. If he were alive, he'd probably learn something he, as the greatest Serbian lawyer, didn't know. I repeat what he said, I don't want to be the author of that idea. I repeat, the author of this idea of the continuity of the state government is Slobodan Jovanovic, the man who was the largest not only Serbian legal theorist, but probably one of the greatest intellectuals of all time, the man who graduated from the Munich Law School, Germany, who spoke several world languages. His theory is about what the state is, as the state steps forward on an internal and foreign policy plan, what the state government is and the continuity of the state government, and I don't think anyone better than him has been able to define it. With this humble wisdom of mine, I will only try to repeat what the man who was far smarter than me said, so Slobodan Jovanovic. The state, he says, has two faces, one is internal, and the other is external. One state can be new in the internal sense, and the old state can be on the foreign agenda. When the state adopts a new constitution, ending continuity with the previous tradition of constitutionality, it is a new state, but in the foreign policy plan it remains an old state, because the state expresses its will on the foreign policy plan solely by concluding with foreign countries appropriate international contracts. If the State has not terminated these contractual relations with foreign countries, this means that its will remains valid. Neither the Republic of Serbia, this current Republic of Serbia, nor the SRJ, has ever broken their international agreements with any foreign country, as well as the SFRY, although the internal plan has completely broken down the ideological, political, legal and social, any possible continuity with the Kingdom of Serbia, primarily for ideological reasons, but no one has thought of breaking up international contracts concluded either by the Kingdom of Yugoslavia or by the Kingdom of Serbia. I remind again, we, this now Republic of Serbia, at the beginning of the 21st century, are bound by international agreements that some of the previous Serbian governments concluded in the late 19th century. This proves the continuity of Serbian statehood. And I don't even know why the previous speaker insists on this interruption of statehood. It's not a daily policy issue, it's a fundamental state-of-the-art issue. All Serbian legal theorists have sought to prove the continuity of Serbian statehood. We are now trying to prove -- here, I call on Slobodan Jovanovic, if anyone has a better example, to say -- that there is a continuity of the current Republic of Serbia with that 19th-century Serbia. This continuity of Serbian statehood has not been interrupted on the foreign policy plan, I repeat, from the 19th century to today. It is on the inside, changing political systems, bringing and abolishing the constitution, changing their own relations, but in the foreign policy plan of the state that existed in the 19th century first as the Principality, and then since 1882 as the Kingdom of Serbia, it has never ceased to exist. There are even theorists who prove that it has never ceased to exist even the statehood of Serbia's minor, but it would already take more time. So there was absolutely no interruption of the continuity of Serbian statehood in the foreign policy plan. All international agreements that bound the government of Nikola Pasic and today bind the government of Mirko Cvetkovic. It is completely beyond doubt that this continuity of sovereignty, when it comes to Serbia, and how it exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21154	Mrs. Pop-Lazic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21155	Allow me, Madam Chairman, without the intention of entering the controversy, because it is obvious that the other side is not up to controversy, but because of the public we must highlight some important facts, at least those related to the UN. The fact is we've never stopped being a member of the UN, we've just been suspended from a chair in the UN, and that's what the fact is. Secondly, if Slobodan Jovanovic had measured everything towards the UN, he could not measure because the UN did not exist at that time. His scientific work, fortunately, is not yet anyone, at least from scientific circles, has put a question mark, so I don't think 250 of us will be able to find someone who can do it. So, the indisputable facts are those that my colleague pointed out before me, and just for the sake of the public, we took this much time off the subject, although it's circumstantial and connected to the Foreign Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21156	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21157	I'll only take 15 seconds. Serbia is one of the youngest members of the UN, and this membership draws from continuity with the SRJ. We all said that we had never ceased to join the UN, but the president of the SRJ, not taking into account that the SRJ government should have done so, submitted a UN application for the admission of the SRJ to membership. The request was accepted and thus the SRJ, whose true legal follower, via Serbia-Montenegro, became a member of the UN. We can talk about what's nice to us. What's nice is what happened to her. If it wasn't for this huge DOS and the president of the SRJ, you could be legally speaking about continuity and with the Germans. But Serbia itself has broken its continuity. It was not even done by anyone from Montenegro, done by the president of the SRJ and Serbia, demanding that Serbia be a member of the UN, past the will of some political parties, but with the will of the then ruling majority who had about 170 MPs in the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21158	Mr. Alexander Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21159	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't understand why it insists on the interruption of the Serbian state's continuity. Therefore, one state does not stop being a state and its international obligations do not cease to exist by the fact that it is a member of the UN or not a member of the UN. The UN is one, however, a global and universal international organisation, but the state does not cease to exist by the very fact that it has been suspended from the UN. Because if we take that position, then Switzerland is not a state because it is not a member of the UN. I don't know if there are any lawyers who would confirm that Switzerland is not a state and that its international obligations are nonexistent and that there is no continuity of the Swiss state government because of the fact that it is not a member of the UN. So it has absolutely nothing to do with each other. I will again refer to Slobodan Jovanovic, who said that the fact that there is a state or does not exist does not affect whether the state has been recognised by another state. So the state exists whether it is recognised in the international community or not if it has three elements - if it has sovereign authority, if it has a people and if it has a territory. These are the characteristics of the state. It is completely irrelevant whether Serbia is a UN member, suspended, whether it is a member of this international organisation or not. Serbia's statehood in the foreign policy plan, I repeat again, I really do not know what is not clear, there is, and this statehood has not been interrupted in the period from 1992 to 2002, when Serbia has been suspended, or SRJ membership has been suspended in the UN. This in no way questioned Serbia's continuity and continuity of its international rights and obligations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21160	According to the amendment, Mr Tomislav Nikolic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21161	Just one more thing to remember, Mr. Martinovic. All our fight for KIM is based on not being admitted to the UN. If you're telling me that the Swiss state is not in the UN, some cynical and ominous person might tell you to say the same thing about KIM. Get out of the way, Mr. Martinovic. It depends on the membership of the UN whether the state exists or not, and we on the veto of Russia and China are based on the fact that there is no KIM. Otherwise, if this is how you and the president of your party, who said it was already lost, then we would have to admit that KIM exists as a state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21162	Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21163	If I could just get a line, I've been mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21164	He can't. Everything was clear and no offense. You've been showing the need to communicate for a long time, but it can be out of this room. Your communication is possible elsewhere because, through the right to replica, you express your views, you face each other. There's no basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21165	I'll be in touch, if I may, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21166	You got it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21167	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I never said, especially not today, that we were giving up fighting for KIM, nor did I say the words KIM when I tried to explain the existence of the Serbian state on the foreign policy plan. It is obvious that Mr Tomislav Nikolic did not understand me well. What's really incomprehensible to me is that he doesn't seem to know our close past. We are calling when we say that KIM is, above all, the Constitution of Serbia, and the one from 2006 and the one from 1990, but we are also calling for UN Security Council Resolution 1244, which was adopted in June 1999, at a time when the SRJ was formally suspended from the UN system. We were not expelled from the UN, but only our membership was temporarily frozen because it was not known in the International Community, given the attitude of the Badinter Commission in 1991, which is actually the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. But let's not open that question. So, the SRS is absolutely in favour of preserving KIM within Serbia. Mr Tomislav Nikolic didn't seem to understand me at all. As soon as Slobodan Jovanovic is mentioned and some legal theories are mentioned in which he does not understand, he mixes everything up and confuses it. But what's also strange to me, that's to say -- it's all Vojislav Kostunica's fault, he made a mistake, and a few days ago, that same Vojislav Kostunica is offering to build a concentration government. It's just amazing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21168	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21169	I, Madam Chairman, applied before that, as you could see, according to the Rules of Procedure. So, please, first that, and then I'll move on to my amendment later. I wanted to remind you, as deputy head of the SRS parliamentary group, that you listen a little more carefully to the speakers, as Article 101 absolutely enabled Mr. Martinovic to reply to Mr. Nikolic's presentation. For what? First, it's a very sensitive and important subject. He was misread, misread, and necessary to replicate his exposure. Member of the 101st is also talking about the fact that when the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly is insultingly expressing himself about the MP, you can interpret that it is not offensive, but not only personally offensive, offensive to the attitude represented by the MP, which is wrongly interpreted. So it is that there was a discussion between Mr Martinovic and Nikolic, but this time, when he was directly mentioned by his name and last name, and when it was about KIM and, of course, maliciously interpreted that KIM status is the same as Switzerland's, because of what Martinović compared these two, this recognised state and this one that is not a sovereign state and which does not have that basic element of statehood, you did not allow the replica. Therefore, I ask you, indeed, to be a little bit more correct towards the SRS parliamentary group. I don't think we really deserve it from your side.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21170	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, the discretionary right of the chairman is to assess whether he has grounds for replication. This was more of a political outsmart than a conversation on the topic, but anyway, I allowed it because I agreed with you to have indirect connections to the agenda point. So, I would have to constantly give the line to one and the other, and interpret what would be if it were, and that's not the role of the chairman. If you think that the injured member you listed is, I suggest that in the Parliament's voting day, there be a statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to? Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Mr Dejan Mirovic and Mrs Pop-Lazic also responded. First word is Mrs. Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21171	I will use my two minutes for this amendment, given that there has already been a discussion on this subject. I want to say that we are in a situation where the state is facing bankruptcy, when the state is over-indebted with a series of laws already passed that cause us enormous economic and financial damage, first of all I mean the SAA, when we declare, as a state, the austerity measures. Without any desire to demagogue myself, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted this amendment for the reason that in such conditions, since it is the people that the minister can do without conducting an internal and public competition to receive, practically, in a working relationship for a certain period of time, that such 5%, apparently, are total employees, that they themselves can be absent from the work of the employer in whom they were in a working relationship, that their rights and obligations are at rest, against which I had nothing, but I believe that the right to rest their working relationship with such persons and their spouses in these conditions is an additional cost to the state and that it is too much. Tell me, please, can a Black Treva worker working in Belgrade ask for the rest of his wife's working relationship to come to Belgrade to be with him? It's about people who have salaries from 10,000 to 12,000 euros, so they can walk, they can pay their wives or family to see them. So this is no demagogy, it's not about the consulates or the ambassadors, it's about the employees of diplomatic and consular representations. It's gone too wide, and it's supposed to be some kind of savings. In these conditions in which the state is located for us, this is a measure of savings and unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21172	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dejan Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21173	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of MP Gordana Pop-Lazic has been submitted to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Foreign Affairs Act. So the amendment is about amendments to Article 42. The 2007 Foreign Affairs Act. It is obvious that the bill promoter paid the most attention to the amendments of Article 5. The Foreign Affairs Act as well as a member of the 42nd Law. In fact, Article 5 determines the ministry's affairs and has over 10 points in it. Article 42 is a kind of extension or addition of Article 5, because it has the title: Special measures to improve diplomatic staff. Also, Article 42 applies, as it says in the text of the law, in exceptional cases. In this context, the purpose of this amendment is to point out the indifferences which, unfortunately, are not only characteristic of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. While the entire state administration, representatives of the government from the government to the President of the Republic, are constantly talking about saving and where it goes so far as to talk about such things as closing windows, the work of electrical devices and the like, at the same time, the government is not saving on important state and strategic expenditures. So, those who show up hundreds of millions of euros. When in practice you have such an absurd situation, then there's no point in saving people's lives when the state itself isn't saving. We believe that the serious state must ensure, above all, the safety of its citizens. Only after that, secondly, are the state administration employees, and thirdly are those people who are employed in exceptional circumstances, just as they are referred to in Article 42. The law on foreign affairs. These are priorities for the SRS. It's also a order that should follow every serious state. So, it should be pointed out, since there have been a lot of uncertainty here about this amendment, that we are not in favour of this amendment to abolish the state or to bring it down to a beggar stick, or its institutions such as the Foreign Ministry, but rather the contrary to what the IMF is up for all of the sake of paying the external debt of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, current state leadership seems to have no courage to face such problems. The next example clearly shows that. In a principle debate a few days ago, we from the SRS criticised the minister, who is now not there, for allowing his ministry's rebalancing to reduce to 20% less than the budget adopted in December 2008. We then suggested that these funds, which we are deeply convinced are needed by the Foreign Ministry for normal functioning, security not by additional taxation of citizens, or by increasing VAT, which the IMF and its followers are in favour of in the current government and the National Bank of Serbia, but by socially fair taxation of the richest commercial monopolies, such as the Delta company. So, if we have to choose between the normal functioning of the foreign ministry, and the moment the US policies force new recognitions of the so-called independence. Kosovo, and taxation of trade monopolies such as Delta, whose public recognition of pi-ara and marketing directors given for one of our daily papers on 30 April 2009, "planned revenue from the sale before the 2009 crisis was 3.4 billion euros" (we think that the figure in the new situation will not be less than 3 billion euros), "on profits in the company "Delta" annually leaves around 210m euros, and the state taxes and contributions pay slightly less than 200m euros", in that context, we from the SRS have no dilemma. We are in favour of additional taxation of the company Delta because, when we subtract the amount of taxes and earnings from the company's employees, the private who owns the company remains at the disposal of an almost incredible figure of over 2 billion euros per year. This way, if our proposal on additional taxation were applied, it would allow the normal functioning of the state, and then improve the social status of our citizens, including those working at the Foreign Ministry. However, since the state does not have the courage to impose a fair taxation, we are forced to submit amendments that, at least in some ways, can improve the situation in the state budget. Unfortunately, instead of the state, in a situation where the economic crisis has affected all the layers of our society and when there is no means to maintain at least a minimum standard of our citizens, let alone the normal functioning of such an important ministry as what is responsible for foreign policy, it additionally taxes the delta monopoly company, completely opposite processes occur. For example, ladies and gentlemen, at the dinner held for the visit of Joseph Biden, one of the distinguished guests was also the owner of the company Delta. This fact shows the true relationship of power in our country. It also shows our citizens that it is the U.S. that protects the oligarchs in our country, and our citizens have been having consequences for visiting Biden, as Mr. Ljubic Rade and Željko Majranov from a patriotic organization. It also shows that officials in such important ministries as the Foreign Ministry cannot hope for a better standard and better working conditions while this is the situation in our country. Also, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment to Article 3 raises the issue of savings in the public sector, but the SRS points out that the amendment requires rational savings and that it is not an anti-state and anti-national loan condition or, essentially, an inhumane process that does not take account of the interests of our citizens. In fact, the interest process has only one objective in the long term, which is to destroy the development and other potentials of this society and this state. He's in our country, and that's what we need to say clearly and openly, propagating and demanding the IMF. The following examples show the difference between our amendment and our concept of savings and the interest conditions of the IMF, which falsely try to represent our public as some kind of savings. For example, ladies and gentlemen, the IMF is asking Serbia to freeze wages and pensions. In practice, this will lead to a fall in wages and pensions due to the inflation rate. Also, fewer municipalities in Serbia worth about 160m euros will lead to even greater social problems in the poorest municipalities in Serbia, which depend on the Republic of Serbia's budget. The richest cities, such as Belgrade and Novi Sad, will feel less, but cities and municipalities such as Vranje, Prokuplje, Kursumli and others will have major problems. The cost reduction of 40% of budget users with their own incomes of around 120m euros will directly hit important areas such as education. For example, in this context, the Rector of the University of Belgrade, Mr Branko Kovacevic, said: "We will lose all projects, we will survive thanks to our incomes from which we pay material costs. In such a situation, we cannot keep good professors, because we have nothing to pay for them." The withdrawal of about 43m euros from the Republic Health Insurance Institute will mean in practice that funds will not be allocated from the budget for the endangered population or those who are receiving below the minimum (emergency, unemployed) because, by law, their health insurance pays exactly the state. In this context, the Director of the Republic Health Insurance Office stated this case: “We will have a difficult year and a rationalisation of consumption wherever possible. “ So, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that these measures required by the IMF will inevitably lead to the collapse of the Serbian economy and society as a whole. That is why the logic of the IMF, which allegedly hides behind the idea of saving, can come to the next -- the weaker the Serbian economy and the weaker the state, the more foreign loans it will need in the coming years. Of course, this long-term economic exploitation process of Serbia as a neocolonia will benefit not only the IMF, but also other organisations related to it, primarily the EU, the World Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Development Bank and Western banks and monopolies working on Serbia's territory. For years, they will charge interest and debts for which the whole of Serbia will work. In this sense, Serbia will be increasingly poor, and the EU, Western banks and the IMF will become richer. So, as part of our amendment, we had to clarify these terms, because our amendment is completely contrary to the above conditions of the IMF and related organisations. As part of our amendment, we are pushing for true savings, not for the collapse of the state in order to achieve the uncolonial objectives of the trustees. In this context, the resolution of the status of the so-called so-called status should be observed. Kosovo at the IMF. The foreign ministry must face this problem, especially because we have also stated in the opening statement that the foreign ministry has left parts of its intelligence to the Ministry of Economy. In this case, and in this sense we are also in favour of our amendments, we should act exactly the opposite way. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs must clearly state its position in relation to the approved membership of the so-called Kosovo at the IMF. Other parts of the government: The Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Trade, the Governor of the National Bank, who otherwise appears selectively as a civil servant in the borrowing of Serbia with the IMF or, on the other hand, as some independent analyst and observer who does not want to take responsibility when it comes to reducing wages in the state sector, must, in this case, agree their activity with the Foreign Ministry. What is the essence of this problem with the membership of the so-called Kosovo in the IMF, which is causing us enormous political and economic damage? It is obvious that, as in the case of a failed initiative for Kosovo's collective recognition at the Damascus Conference, behind Kosovo's admission to the IMF, it is clear to all, the United States stands exactly. In addition, the long-awaited guest, Joseph Biden, admitted in Pristina on 22 May 2009, when he said "Accepting Kosovo to the IMF is another proof that the international community accepts the reality of an independent Kosovo." Biden then openly admitted that the United States also encourages other countries to recognise the so-called independence. Kosovo, which is, you will agree, an incredible insolence and procedure that is almost unremembered in international diplomacy. I'm going to give you an example of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, where the Russian Federation has just stopped at the recognition of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, although, unlike the United States, it was forced to defend itself against the attack in that war, and it did not continue, unlike the United States, to lobby and blackmail other countries, as the United States does in the event of recognition of so-called. Kosovo. However, on this very important issue, Kosovo's admission to the IMF is, above all, a direct damage that Serbia is suffering due to such double and primitive US standards. This economic damage, which we are just talking about in our amendments, is coming from the United States and is exactly incomparable to what we are trying to prevent by our amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Foreign Affairs Act. The following data shows that. According to the NBS, the debt of the fake Kosovo state that Serbia is paying is $1110,000,000. This is a sum that is more than twenty times the total funds provided for the foreign ministry by budget rebalance. On the other hand, only in the period from 2002 to 2009 did Serbia pay on behalf of this long phantom state of Kosovo $427m. It is also a huge sum, which is several times larger than the one at the disposal of the Foreign Ministry and all the DKP of the Republic of Serbia abroad that we are discussing in our amendments today. So, ladies and gentlemen, Serbia and its citizens in practice finance the independence of the false state of Kosovo, while the formation banishes Serbs and kidnaps about 15% of our country's territory. When this argument is made, that Serbia is over paying the debt so-called. Kosovo is essentially financing this fake creation, then it is under command that Serbia is also giving up the diplomatic struggle for its southern province in the event of a withdrawal from the debt of the fake state of Kosovo. Or that, if the payment of the debt or the financing of that false creation would be suspended, it would be admitted indirectly that this false state exists. This phrase might have a basis, that so-called. Kosovo has not recently been admitted to the IMF. After joining the so-called Kosovo at the IMF, Serbia was obliged to reconsider its policy towards paying the debt but also its overall policy towards the IMF. Avoiding this problem by the foreign ministry, which apparently has accepted the harmful policy of the government and the NBS, the work of the government that is completely uncritical of everything the IMF requires of Serbia, has caused great damage to our country, and should be made clear, but also to our diplomacy and our citizens who in practice finance the fake state of Kosovo in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In particular, this is incomprehensible if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs takes into account that it is a member of the so-called Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Kosovo at the IMF is essentially the political provocation of the United States as well as the visit of Joseph Biden. So there was a way to avoid two extremes. One extreme is the recognition of the existence of a false state by definitely giving up that debt. The second extreme is the payment of debt to the IMF, which has received Kosovo in its membership. Under the two extremes, the foreign ministry was obliged to find an acceptable solution that would need to be agreed on by those parts of the government that blindly follow any IMF decision. For example, the issue of payment of debt could be conditioned by the question of membership, so-called membership. Kosovo at the IMF. That's how, ladies and gentlemen, any serious government would do it. It is a serious and thoughtful foreign policy that automatically brings huge savings to the citizens of Serbia, as well as the preservation of national dignity, which is not less important. But again as if there was not enough courage in the Foreign Ministry to establish such a compromise solution as the principle of our foreign policy. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, the Republic of Serbia has come to the worst possible position, the other extreme I'm talking about. The Republic of Serbia pays the debt, so-called debt. Kosovo, though the formation was admitted to the IMF, although this is not essentially an economic but political issue. In this context, I will quote Professor Boris Begovic, who is in no way close to the SRS. He was a member of the team during the KIM status negotiations. However, he made it clear a few weeks ago for one of our daily papers to receive so-called. Kosovo in the IMF meant only "a demonstration of force and that it would be pointless and paradoxical from an economic point of view" because, according to Professor Begovic, "the false creation of Kosovo uses the euro, and the Fund gives financial support to the national currency. This would result in a paradoxical situation that when the IMF closes a stand-by arrangement with Kosovo, money helps the European Central Bank, not Kosovo financial institutions. So it's political, not economic. Professor Begovic also points out that it is a precedent, that one non-UN member formation becomes a member of the IMF. Such precedent was rarely applied. It is known, however, an example of Western Germany. In this real, not in the virtual and dogmatic sense that appears in our public and government, the following questions are also raised, which must be answered by the Foreign Ministry. Will our representatives, for example? in the same composition as the IMF and World Bank's annual assembly in April this year, so the Governor and two Deputy Prime Ministers attended the next similar IMF and World Bank meetings when it was held, and this is now certain, the so-called delegation. Kosovo? Or, if a delegation from Serbia does not attend, then they will not be able to negotiate further debt to the Republic of Serbia, which we in the SRS all welcome. A government that, on the other hand, sees a solution to all problems in this headless borrowing, although all economic data show otherwise, will certainly support the process. On the other hand, the question arises -- if a delegation of the Republic of Serbia attends these IMF and World Bank meetings along with a delegation of the so-called. Kosovo, then, will essentially begin to implement EU representative Wolfgang Ischinger's plan. The foreign ministry certainly knows that the plan was presented at the end of 2007 and is essentially identical to that applied between West and East Germany in 1973. That's why the comparison with West Germany and its IMF status is realistic. That Ischinger plan is based on the so-called good neighbourly relations between the two Germanys, and in our case they would be relations between the fake state of Kosovo and the Republic of Serbia. Such a plan is also in a somewhat more hidden form in the so-called Stabilisation and Association Agreement, more specifically in the Article. 10, 14...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21174	Mr. Mirovic, can I just interrupt for a moment? I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to inform you that part of today's session from the Grand Hall gallery of the National Assembly is accompanied by representatives, mostly representatives, cultural and public life and cultural institutions of the city and the Republic, as they are in the House of National Assembly's working visit to the public presentation of the Proposal for a Law on Culture. Please welcome them. I apologize to you and I beg you to continue. [[Applause]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21175	So this Ischinger's plan is in a somewhat more hidden vision in so much of a glorified SSP, more specifically in art. 10, 14, 15, 16 and 88. So, ladies and gentlemen, when we analyze the aforementioned events surrounding the so-called membership. Kosovo, we are coming to the conclusion that in our practice the application of this plan seems to be due to the application of the long-term US strategy we spoke of in the previous presentation, whose principles were established by George Kenan in the document we spoke about just in the previous presentation. This is the strategy for which the Foreign Ministry, and apparently neither the Government, has any long-term response. Against the strategy in diplomatic terms, Serbia can only fight with diplomatic assistance from Russia, best demonstrated at the Organisation of the Islamic Conference in Damascus a few days ago, when Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov's presence was key to blocking the new wave of recognition of Kosovo's independence initiated by the United States. Although, of course, in this case, we do not dispute the advocate and effort of Minister Jeremic, although he, and it should be pointed out, was not even in Damascus during the session, unlike Mr Lavrov. In any event, the amendment of the SRS submitted to Article 3. The draft law amending the Foreign Affairs Act should be adopted. That amendment should be accepted even though it has been extorted, I must say plainly, by the inexplicable economic situation in which our country has found itself. The situation resulting from the wrong state and foreign policy, a policy that does not understand the reality in which the Republic of Serbia is today. And this reality shows us that, based on its long-term strategy, the United States is doing everything, I repeat everything, in the decommissioning of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and the collapse, namely, the economic system, and thus the standards of our citizens. Until this reality is understood, and until Serbia connects in diplomatic and any other sense to a powerful ally that can prevent this from diplomatic and economic means, such foreign and economic failures as the reception of the so-called. Kosovo at the IMF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21176	Thank you. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabaković. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21177	I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The bill, where the words "January 1st 2010" are replaced by the words "June 30th 2009". I submitted an amendment to point out, in fact, the indifference of the government, which missed the legal deadline to regulate the cost of staff in diplomatic and consular representations, i.e. at the Ministry, and during work in those offices. I really want to know what the fate of the employees is, because they were forgotten in the Budget Law and they couldn't be treated in the intended way. And not just that. We're talking about a law that was literally sensitive to us in the proposal, because it had no opening word. In his final statement, the minister told us that they had some technical problems and inability to cope, or he said they could not handle the budget. In fact, I want to say that this law is an attempt to cover up already made mistakes, which is that the forgotten costs of employees in the ministry, who work in diplomatic and consular representations, in case they get sick and also try to make a new big mistake with this law, which is that party diplomacy is created, i.e. the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is filled with the revenues of all citizens, will be financed by a party structure which, here and writes, will be employed for four years in these diplomatic and consular representations. What concerns all citizens, and me, is next. Is it possible, in the light of the adoption of this law, that these costs are forgotten to be covered by the budget? The minister literally said it was a forgotten cost, and in an explanation, he tried to say that it is necessary to postpone the application because 2009 is ongoing, etc. Is it possible that when planning the budget, which passes more instance, more circles, that when controlling the proposal that comes to the government, one such important cost is forgotten, i.e. the forgotten people for whom such a cost was necessary to predict? If the citizens have forgotten, I will remind them that in 2007, a government in similar composition forgot to provide for part of the budget to support the overall housing fund. That this government, by its own admission, had forgotten that good will to apply the SAA unilaterally, so we were waiting and, indeed, too late to discuss the draft budget for this year because such a significant sum of funds, which is close to 250m euros, when forgotten, is really making a big mess. How much is a government that forgets people and forgets numbers from e.g. 250 million euros? How much does a government forget this? A lot, and too much. If we've just passed one of the laws on agricultural land, and each of the laws follows a new agency, this is about the Agriculture Administration, where it's nice to say that ten million dinars will be needed to establish this administration, that it employs 20 new people, so they need to provide some resources for offices, literature, all other accompanying services, equipment, wages, etc., I wonder how it is possible to write in this explanation that you are correcting the possible damage that you did not provide for the treatment costs of people working in diplomatic and consular representations, and you write that this law does not require financial resources. Are you questioning our common sense and our ability to read this file? Is this where we're supposed to say there won't be any funding in this year? This is not a law that will only apply in one year. Does this law not mean the necessary financial resources at all or just this year? Or will you forbid people from getting sick and causing us these costs? Or, this argument is an excessive waste of paper, if in one of the views, where you write explanations of individual solutions, the following simple-expanded sentence is: "Being in mind that the draft law is being considered and adopted in 2009, Article 6 provides that the provision of Article 54", which is the provision that speaks of the right to compensation for the costs of those people working in the DKP, "begins to apply from 1 January 2010. Therefore, this provision is intended to apply from 1 January 2010. And now there are superfluous, pointless, strange words – "as if that provision came into force on 1 January 2009. What's the difference between "degrees in force" and "begins to apply" when in Article 54(1), which makes this all work, there's no difference between the right to compensation and the fee itself? Do you think we don't read this at all or do you think this is going to work with each other if, he says, you don't need any costs to enforce the law, the law goes into effect on 1 January 2009, and this entry implies that we will ensure that people who work there are being treated? With this amendment, I wanted to show you how superficial, irresponsible, irresponsible, and not the way you have respected this congregation and these people, not wanting to explain to us, absolutely, the opening words of what this law really means, what goals you wanted to achieve. I am interested in how you will apply the provision, because this amendment will not be adopted at all, if you have written that the law will start to apply from 1 January, in this part of 2010, and you assure us that by doing so, I am also reading the provision of the reasoning, you will prevent the consequences of the work of the Foreign Ministry. I would really like, in the final word, Mr. Minister, you or anyone who at that time finds the debate in front of the MPs responsible, to explain what this really means. Maybe it's the budget reserve, that provision of the Budget Law, where you're very nice and casually predicting that there's a nice little black fund for you, from which you can do whatever you don't want the public to hear, and that we MPs explain it, so that it doesn't become a position in the budget, in fact, you finance from that budget reserve. You will publish in the Official Messenger for what it is intended and for what it will go for, but how many people have the opportunity to even see the "Official Messenger" in which you will publish it? And you will defend yourself that there is a public, that the money of budget users is spent transparently. How many people even get this official literature in which, as conscious voters and citizens who want to see how much the state they're paying for, you can estimate whether these costs, which you'll modestly say don't exist by this bill, are you actually going to have to finance, for example, from the budget reserve? I'm really ashamed to ask so many questions about what you call good intentions and correcting mistakes. Whoever works, he's wrong, but whoever's serious doesn't get out too often with mistakes like this. We don't expect much success from those who run the country when you're taking it, but we expect a minimum of responsibility and attention, and this law, especially Article 4, to which I have submitted the amendment, absolutely does not prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21178	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 85(5) and Article 6. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that we will continue our work after 18:00 hours, until the debate is completed in detail on the starting point of the agenda, and I would like to bear in mind that during the time from 16:00 to 19.00 hours, work on the agenda will be suspended to ask parliamentary questions to the members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in accordance with Article 200(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The word first has Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21179	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, I'm sorry that today we don't have a minister whose area this is so that we can present to him our amendments, which we wrote in our best interest, and that he adopts them. This is a key amendment, a key point in the amendments to the laws that you have foreseen, and because of it, it is practically the law that came before us today in the procedure, because Minister Jeremic, the government, the state of Serbia, would be sued by employees in diplomatic and consular representations and, of course, would get the process. What's going on in this famous article 4? The promoter predicted that, in practice, he was suspending, or that for a year he would postpone the right of all the employees of diplomatic and consular offices, they were employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and members of their families, to have a regular right to health insurance and to suspend this right within a year. So within a year, employees of the DKP and members of their families would not have had a chance to treat and exercise their right to health insurance. In the light of all of this, you wrote that you didn't predict the funds in the budget for these expenses. It's really scandalous that the state, as an employer, doesn't take care of employees in the state apparatus. But there are a few things here that need to be looked at, and it's really direct. It's interesting that the government violates existing laws. Some of them she brought and some of them inherited. These are official and applicable laws in the state of Serbia. Among other things, first of all, it violates the Constitution. That's what we saw yesterday. The representatives of the agriculture ministry also violated the constitution yesterday with their proposals, so it seems to be the government's manner. Second, it violates the Health Act, the Labour Act. I wonder if all of this was attended by the Prime Minister and Minister Ljajic at the session that the government adopted, what they said and whether they supported this proposal. Because it seems completely ridiculous to see Minister Ljajic, who is putting out the fire, say, somewhere outside Serbia's borders. The other thing that's amazing, you said you didn't have the budget for these expenses. Why doesn't the state of Serbia have money? Because he has an incompetent government, because there are incompetent ministers who are not interested in what we are talking about today as MPs or what the citizens of Serbia say. They tell a story of their own, and by their irresponsible behavior, each citizen in Serbia, each of us individually here, every little child in this Serbia, is in charge of 400 euros. They removed 400 euros from each pocket just because they are not able to provide funds but are in debt. They signed and began to apply unilaterally to the SAA, and thus, they say, only 17m euros for these three months have damaged Serbian citizens. What do you think, maybe that 17m euros could have been transferred to this account, and yet those people who are employed by the state and their families have the means to heal? At the same time, although the government says there is no employment in state authorities, we see in the paper that a public competition for economic advisers is being called, for economic diplomats, according to our minister. It's interesting if they'll have health insurance. That's a question, say, for the rest of the day. Or how much will they cost Serbian citizens for the same job that our ambassadors have been doing so far? The most interesting thing is that the state, as an employer, violates the rights under the laws it has passed and from where it has the right to, instead of defending other employers from violating the same rights that came from the laws passed by the state of Serbia and the government of the Serbian state, it violates it. Will he send the inspectors, maybe, to see if everything's in line with this? It is amazing and amazing things you do these days to the citizens of Serbia and to all the employees of Serbia. But the elections are close and Serbia will see the end for you. But the 400 euros we have to pay off, that's gonna be hard.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21180	The word is Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic. The remaining time is a minute and 45 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21181	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, the government has written in Article 4 of the amendment of this law that in Article 67 of the existing law the words '''1. They replace January 2009 with the words ''1'. January 2010'. Mr. Minister, to understand this problem, you must have at least three documents in front of you. What is the roof of this house and this state - the Constitution, then what follows from that - the Health Insurance Act, and what is the key to this decision, which is this fat book, which we discussed at the beginning of the year - the budget of the Republic of Serbia. What did you foresee, and you as a member of the government, by this decision? That one group of people is opposed to the basic rights. To deny them the right to health insurance. What about their families? Have you, Mr. Minister, read Article 17. The Health Insurance Act - what are insurance companies? Do you have an answer to that question? (President: Time, Mr Dimitrievich, which is available to your party has expired. You're out of time. The story's over. Thank you very much. Here, I'll try to finish. (President: No, you'll have to finish. I thanked you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21182	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21183	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is very important because it is a matter of cutting deadlines for the response of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The deadline Miss Natasa Jovanovic is looking for is 30 days. In that sense, this amendment, in a broader context, is based on the following facts and I will try in this brief time remaining for our parliamentary group to explain the context of this amendment. We believe that there is a consensus between US and Britain's foreign policy in the Middle East and the Balkans. That's the fact that we're leaving. That fact also shows why the United States will never give up pushing for the independence of the fake state of Kosovo, no matter what Serbia does and whoever is in power in our country. For example, in a statement of 23 May 2009, when he called on members of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference to recognise the so-called "Islamic Conference". Independent Kosovo, David Miliband, the foreign minister of Great Britain, explained the broader context of his words: "Britain strongly supports close political relations between Muslim and Western countries. That is why deeper co-operation between the West and Muslim countries is needed when it comes to Kosovo." We believe that the causes of this attitude of the United States and their satellite of Great Britain are the following facts. Under an agreement from Oslo in 1993, the Palestinian state was scheduled to form in 1998 or no later than 1999. This agreement was agreed between representatives of the Palestinian self-government, on the one hand, and Americans and Israelis, on the other hand. If the agreement had been implemented by chance, the longest global crisis, which has been formally taking place since 1947 and 1948 and the First Arab-Israeli War, would have ended, and in fact since Balfur's declaration, would have been brought completely unexpected, in the course of World War I in 1917, by the British Foreign Minister of the time. This problem also led to the war of 1956 between Israel, Britain and France, on the one hand, and Egypt on the other, as well as to the six-day war between Israel and the Arab states in 1966 and the Jon-Cyprus War 1973, which rocked the world because it caused a huge oil crisis and an oil price hike of 400% and an economic crisis in America and the West, which had a greater situation than this one. All these wars, more specifically, led the United States of Israel to have about four million Palestinians living in exile today, creating a huge dissatisfaction in the Middle East right towards the United States. In order for this dissatisfaction to somehow be amortised, the American mediators have organised diplomatic negotiations from time to time. However, when the previously mentioned agreement from Oslo in 1998 and 1999 was to be met, the United States was suddenly, following an agreement in Dayton, which did not even mention KIM, along with a media pompousness to the SRJ, allegedly due to the threat of Kosovo Albanians. A similar situation occurred several years later, because at the same time as the famous statement by President George Bush in June 2002, when a new plan for the creation of a Palestinian state, which was later named 'the map of the road', envisioned in three phases of intense diplomatic negotiations that would end with the formation of a Palestinian state within a time limit of 2005, a new road map appears in the Balkans after several years of respect for Resolution 1244, in which more places the Kosovo and Metohija are part of the Republic of Serbia, a new road map appears. The first was presented by the already mentioned Washington Peace Institute, a US-funded institute established by the regional administration and the 1984 US Congress. In fact, the new road map for Kosovo was first presented by Daniel Server, who led a group of experts from the Peace Institute. That is why I stress that this amendment, Miss Natasa Jovanovic, is very important, because of the urgency of responding to these obviously related events. The head of the Balkan department, Daniel Server, was a US special representative in the Balkans during the Bosnian civil war. The proposal tabled by the Peace Institute in July 2002 states -- the international community should decide on Kosovo's final status in a certain period of time, for example in three years. So, according to this proposal from the Washington Peace Institute, the weather resolution of Kosovo's status coincides with that provided in the map of the road to create a Palestinian state. It's the basis of our problem, the basis to be dealt with by our foreign ministry. The same proposal states that Kosovo is moving towards independence with unchangeable borders and that it must be realised within three years. After such a proposal, events take place almost automatically. Unmika head Michael Steiner said already in Berlin on 13.11.2002 that Kosovo's final status would be resolved within three to four years. In April 2004, a British expert on the Balkans, James Ker-Lindzi, announced that the new US administration will reportedly lead a new policy, which will "lead to the destruction of myths, and one of them is that KIM should remain in Serbia". At the same time, he said, Palestinians should also free themselves from myths and accept reality in occupied territories in Gaza and the West Bank. In July 2004, Madeline Albright, who says it will be decisive for Kosovo in 2005, also announced. Why these deadlines are suddenly mentioned, it's not clear. Similarly, her successor, Colin Powell, and, of course, head of Unmika Soren Jessen Petersen, in September 2004, and spokesman for State Department Richard Boucher and British Prime Minister Blair, who personally advocates that the whole process of determining Kosovo's so-called status has accelerated although it is clear to all that he is already resolved by Resolution 1244. Even the German Wall of Caitung finds that the province's status is'suddenly imposed as an urgent and fateful issue'. In this context and the need for urgent response, mentioned in Miss Jovanovic's amendment, we cite George Bush's statement in Washington's National Task Force for Democracy, where he openly connects the Middle East and the Balkans, giving the right reasons for the continued anti-Serb action of the United States. Bush attacked those who criticise US anti-Muslim policies in the Middle East, so in Palestine and Iraq, and as an alleged argument in defending US anti-Muslim policies in the Middle East, Bush cited Muslim protection in Kosovo and Bosnia. Finally, the Palestinian state, of course, was not declared in 2005. The deadline's still out of date. The global farce ends by experiencing an epilogue in the US city of Anapolis in November 2007, when last agreement was reached under US patronage between the Israeli and Palestinian delegations that is forecasting, I particularly stress this, that the Palestinian state was declared in 2008. Of course, there was nothing of it, but almost at the beginning of 2008, as already known, the United States has forced the declaration of Kosovo's so-called independent state in the Balkans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21184	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Nikola Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, last time there was a debate on the principle of this law, I began by regretting that the committee in charge did not consider a law on the agenda. This time I'm expressing a two-way regret. First, the regret that we had not yet received the opinion of the board of directors, although the Committee's session was scheduled to begin at 1200 hours. I think that after two hours and ten minutes, the Committee could still consider the bill itself and the 17 amendments that arrived on this bill, which has only six members. On the other hand, I regret that today there is no foreign minister present, even Mrs Diana Dragutinovic's presence would be too high, given that there are members of this law which and as regards the budget system and, in particular, the money that is necessary for the health insurance of DKP employees and their families. I'll try to recapture what was said in the principle debate, of course to combine with the commentary of the amendments that are on the agenda today. In principle, the DSS analysed both the foreign policy itself, the way in which Serbia's foreign policy is created and implemented, implemented by the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, and the very measure of the law on the agenda. When it comes to the way foreign policy is run, the DSS has indicated that the foreign policy that this government is leading is a discontinuity policy relative to the previous two governments, when key foreign policy issues have agreed not only at the level of the government, but also received confirmation in parliament, and thus the legitimacy of the policy has been stronger. It has also been pointed out that experience from the last century teaches us that a weak government without authentic ideas and dominant, not to say usurperingly, the president has never brought good to Serbia. We can certainly speak a few words about what the foreign policy objectives of the government have been declared, but I think it's quite enough to look at the picture of yesterday, which really looks sad. You have the most representatives of the state summit painted in Roland Garros, while at the same time the KIM minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia is disabled from entering the southern Serbian province. It's a really tragic situation. The declared foreign policy objectives and the general objectives of the Serbian government are that they will certainly work to preserve KIM within Serbia, on the other hand, to work on the European integration process and to develop regional co-operation. The objectives are not in themselves controversial, but their realization is more than controversial. As regards the preservation of KIM within Serbia, the result is that, unfortunately, there is almost no longer a Unmik mission on the ground, whose task was to remind myself that it is carrying out the essential autonomy of Kosovo within Serbia, and that the government has accepted the arrival of Eulex, which it claims to be status neutral, and we can pave the way for it to be impossible for the Minister for Kosovo to enter our southern province, to actually implement the Ahtisaari plan. Certainly, and to say that EULEX is status neutral, from autonomy to neutrality is a huge difference. The DSS noted that it is now proving to be a proper DSS position on opening dialogue with EU countries on the problems that have arisen because a number of EU member states have recognised Kosovo's independence. We now see that open and honest dialogue on this issue would not be a waste of time, as there are no new moments on the European integration process, since the SAA is not being applied, and not even the Interim Trade Agreement. Of course, except that the Serbian government unilaterally applies the SAA, which, according to the data provided by Mrs Milica Delevic the other day, Serbia has so far lost around 17m euros. I think that money could have been much better used, primarily in the context of this law, in order to enable employees in the DKP to have a fundamental right to consume health insurance because these people are now both out of the Constitution and out of the Labour Act and out of the Health Insurance Act. As for regional co-operation, the need for dialogue and participation in regional initiatives has been stressed, but in a way that does not ignore issues of crucial importance for Serbia in the dialogue. It noted the need to work on developing special and parallel ties with Republika Srpska, in line with the Dayton Agreement. On the other hand, a number of questions have been asked by DSS lawmakers, and one of these issues has been related to irrational decisions to banish the ambassadors of Montenegro and Macedonia from Belgrade, as well as announcements that the government will accept new ambassadors from the two countries. The question arises whether the government in Belgrade will accept, for example, that the government will send ambassadors to both Belgrade and Pristina at the same time. The DSS reminded the government that the assembly had adopted a resolution on Serbia's military neutrality. In the framework of the legislative proposal, an amendment has been made to define more clearly the foreign policy aspects of military engagement, in terms of respect for the Constitution. Article 140. The constitution says any involvement of the army outside the country's borders should be ratified, i.e. Parliament's decision is necessary. As far as further military-security integration is concerned, it is certainly necessary to declare the people in the referendum. The DSS also tabled an amendment on the issue of realising a member of the 54th current law, which I was already talking about in the context of denying the right to health insurance for employees in diplomatic and consular representations and their families. The DSS amendment proposes that this member be applied as of 1 July, leaving enough time for this government to rebalance the budget, because we are sure there will be more budget rebalances and opportunities for these funds to be provided in the coming period. Just to remind the DSS in 2007, and voted in favour of the existing Foreign Affairs Act, noting that one of the most important elements is precisely resolving the health insurance issue of employees. The question arises how can our diplomacy be expected to be efficient and modern, if the elemental rights are not resolved. The Third Amendment of the DSS was accepted by the government. Since the minister can already receive a certain number of persons at a certain time and indefinitely, it has been intervened in the sense that all those people the minister can receive without competition must meet the same criteria as the foreign ministry employees. Therefore, it is understood - language knowledge, the passing of certain expert exams, etc. Article 3 of this proposal is controversial from the point of view of the Labour Act. That's what counterpart Donka Banovic was talking about. Now I would like to streamline and say that amendments to the law may not bring improvement in the foreign policy of the state, because it is unfortunately misconceived. On the other hand, employees of the foreign ministry will suffer because they will not be entitled to health insurance until next year. In the end, I would say that there is a kind of confusion within the government regarding the implementation of foreign policy, and this is looked at in that, for example, the minister of diaspora talks most about Euro-Atlantic integration instead of what his job is, that the minister speaks about the military as one of Serbia's most important foreign policy factors, etc. Unfortunately, this image today, too, that the minister of trade and services defends the amendment and addition of the Foreign Affairs Act, speaks of the government's relationship with the foreign affairs issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21186	Thank you. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who also received his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21187	Mr. Minister, you will agree with the conclusion that it is difficult for meaningful amendments to amend meaningless law. The fact that the proposal on amendments and additions to the law may be meaningless and demonstrates the government, which, among other things, sent you to defend the law on foreign affairs, and before you, the Minister of Finance. But for us, for the SRS, the relationship to this law is mostly about the fact that the Committee did not take place, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that during the whole debate there are only a dozen, fifteen MPs of the congregation's majority. But if you don't have a dilemma -- they're not expelled, they're all uninterested. It is pointless for us to propose a law almost in June delaying the application of certain provisions from 1 January 2009 on 1 January 2010 and putting it in the emergency procedure. On the other hand, in the light of this text of the law, you convince us that the law is important, that is to say, to provide for certain new powers of the minister, discretion in the context of the establishment of advisory bodies composed of prominent experts, namely the definition that without competition workers can be accepted, etc. This all points only to the fact that this law, like many other laws, regulates the verse. The verse that runs this government, the verse that defines the political opportunities in our country and the verse that defines our diplomatic efforts, our jobs and our functioning. For the SRS, this law is absolutely unacceptable precisely because of the facts that we have put forward and, I repeat, difficult, even if all the amendments we have submitted were accepted, so that you could change anything essentially.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21188	Thank you. How did we end up going through the draft law in particular, does the proposing's representative want to give the final word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. We have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, and the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality in the voting day. I would like to inform you that the Government, based on Article 145, is Article 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, withdrawn from the assembly procedure the draft Law on Official Statistics, delivered to the National Assembly by Act 05 No. 011-6826/2007-4 of 14 November 2008 and the Bill on the List of Population, Households and Apartments in 2011, delivered to the National Assembly by Act 05 No. 011-769/2009 of 20 February 2009. We move to the 60th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the ban on the use of neo-Nazi or Fascist Organisations and Associations of National MPs: Boris Aleksic, Sladjan Mijaljević, Mirko Munjic, Aleksandar Martinović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Milan Avramović, Petar Jojić, Milorad Buha, Nikola Žutić, Marina Ragus, Marina Raguš, Natasa Jovanovic, Paja Momčev, Dušanka Momčević, Committee Rade, Ljubomir Kragović, Marina Toman, Elina Žuić and Miljanjanović, Miljanjnović, Miljanjević, Miljanjnović, Miljanović, Miljanjnović, Miljanjnović, Milović, Miljanjanović, Miljanjnović, Milović, Miljanović, Miljanjnović, Milović, Milović, Milović, Milović and Mirjan. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, as well as an opinion on the amendments tabled by the legislators. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, appears after the word of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21189	Mr. Novakovic, you have informed us (and it is good, for the sake of the public, that you have done so) that we have already received notice from the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the withdrawal of the proposal of these two laws, but please, in accordance with Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, given that you care for the application of the Constitution and the application of the Rules of Procedure, you get information from the secretary who sits next to you (because he is excellent in this calculation) and that you inform the public about the damage done to the citizens of Serbia because we spent two working days discussing these laws in principle because for all MPs the material of these laws was printed, because the committees discussed the amendments, because the amendments were printed and because all this must be done once more, because these laws will, of course, be returned to the procedure. The point of why they were withdrawn is that, today Mr. Todorovic told you, you recalculated when you planned this agenda. The public must know that it was done because the majority of parliament would not be able to vote on the agenda until 30 May, when it brings out the regular session of this Parliament, and you put 65 points on the agenda, counting on you to run through it all. Now, when you found yourself in a teat, you made a deal with the government, or the government in agreement with you, it doesn't matter, but the citizens of Serbia need to know and I would ask the media who were seriously involved in costs along with Mr... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21190	Thank you. The time foreseen for advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure has expired. (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: Time has not run out.) ) The injuries of the Rules of Procedure do not exist for the simple reason that the proposing is authorized at any time to put the bill in the procedure or withdraw it, and neither I nor the Assembly decide on it. As far as other questions are concerned, no one is preventing the MP, nor is it jeopardizing his right to take appropriate questions, as we have had the opportunity today to make sure, address and request information, an explanation and ask a question. Thank you. People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, adverts the breach of the Rules of Procedure, came forward. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21191	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill comes from a group of MPs, not from the Government, and I believe that the members of 139 and 141 are injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In fact, we are entering a debate on amendments to this bill without the government's opinion. Paragraph 1 of Article 139 states this: "The draft law addressed to the National Assembly by the President of the National Assembly immediately upon receipt shall be submitted to the Members of Parliament, to the committees responsible and to the Government, if it is not the proposer." Article 141 states: "The bill, before considering in the National Assembly, is discussed by the competent committees and the Government if it is not the legislator. The competent committees and the Government, if not the legislator, in their reports or opinions, may propose to the National Assembly to accept or not accept the draft law in principle. If the relevant committees and the Government propose the adoption of the law in principle, they shall indicate whether they accept the law in general or with amendments proposed in the form of amendments. The relevant committees and the Government shall provide reports, or opinion, to the National Assembly within a period of not less than five days before the date of the meeting of the National Assembly, at which the draft law is considered.' I think it would be interesting for the citizens of Serbia to hear the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on this bill, which is bad not only in legal and technical terms, but also in language, logical, some scientific historical sense, etc. The DS, as the leading party in this government, has so far expressed its position on this bill and it would be good for Serbian citizens to know what the Serbian government's opinion is, and that means, above all, DS's opinion, on what the MPs have proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21192	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. We also understood many things we might be able to agree on, except in the fact that there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. By reading Article 141, you stopped right after Article 4 and the position of the 5th same member, which is below, says that unless the government delivers an opinion on the bill, the bill will be considered without that opinion. Are you satisfied with this explanation?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21193	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Novakovic, just one sentence. Since this bill is necessary for Serbia's Euro-Atlantic integration, I think it would be necessary to hear the government's opinion, which is also a proponent of Euro-Atlantic integration, on this bill. That's why I said it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21194	We understand each other. Thank you. Under the name of the amendment law, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted to the Committee on Justice and Administration. The draft law has adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21195	This amendment shows that the law is no good. If there is to be an amendment to the title of the law and to every member of the law except for Article 1, which, whether there is or no amendment, does not really have to be interpreted as a disputed provision, then that means that what the promoter wrote does not deserve too much attention. When it comes to interventions through amendments, they are not only done by opposition representatives because the motioner is a member of the ruling coalition, but the amendments to this bill were apparently submitted by other members of this House, taking part in the work of the Committee of Resorts. Since there are no members of this law who do not suffer appropriate objections, and not small ones, but even essential ones, then it is best to say about the bill itself. Namely, this bill came on the agenda of this session by being classified by Slavica-Djukic Dejanovic, the speaker of parliament, although no opinion from the government came to the bill. And when I asked why the two laws submitted by the DSS parliamentary group, such as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt, which needs the Government of the Republic of Serbia to learn that they cannot make a decision on the debt to the IMF for the preservation of currency stability without legal basis, which is a very important regulation, because the process has already been entered, and there is no legal basis for the adoption of that law, it was not appropriate to put the session on the agenda of the law because, my God, the government did not give an opinion. Similarly, the government did not give an opinion either on the proposal for a law on the transfer of jurisdiction to Vojvodina, which the DSS submitted, and this was the reason why these two laws did not appear on the agenda of the National Assembly. Then Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic explained that these are two very important draft laws, so it would be a great shame if without the government's opinion they were discussed in parliament. And contrastario, this bill of law doesn't matter at all. The legislator can play with the entire National Assembly, the ruling coalition with the legislator, that everything and everything can be written until Vote Day, because tomorrow we will probably vote on it, in order to satisfy the interest of the legislator to be active in political life with some attitude, although the fact that it represents in most cases legal pleonism, because certain views are repeated in many other regulations, starts from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and to certain laws that I have last time stated in the general debate, all those covering this area, with the exception of the fact that there is no mention of neonasm, nor of fascism, and here that, and with the exception that in this bill, both concepts are not meaningfully demarcated, and in the precise regulation contained in them, even if they are not unfair, they cannot go beyond the definition of the concepts and are understood, that they are understood. It just doesn't work that way. Because if you could protect the social interest against these negative phenomena that the law wants to deal with, which in any case are absolutely negative, against which we all have to have something in this world, then the former lawmakers in the former SFRY, who sponsored the shooting of movies against Nazism, fascism, which speak of World War II and three hundred miracles, would have found themselves somewhere to put the concept of fascism, Nazism, neonasism in positive regulations, then former SFRY, so they did not because there are formulas in the legal system, starting from constitutional categories to their development in the legal system, which are very successfully protected by the human rights sector. This isn't how it was done. This comes down to a certain experience and blackmail of a part of the ruling coalition in the Serbian Parliament, that, due to the correct relationship within the ruling coalition's Corps itself, we simply play by regulation. This is nothing else, in this situation, but playing by the law. What kind of answer do you want someone to have? We haven't, say, found it appropriate to submit any amendments. You know, you're making amendments on the proposal, so I'm commenting on this first one. You submit amendments to the bill, if you think you can fix the text of the law with an amendment. This is completely incorrigible. So, you guys have nothing to fix here. It has to be written over and over again. It would be smarter, because I don't think it's basically a bad idea to make one of these -- it would be good if the proposer heard what I'm about to say -- I don't think it's basically a bad idea to pass one of these laws, with content that would define this kind of potential social phenomenon or danger, and in a proper way create the possibility to react. But what's written doesn't do either. Neither the right legal miles nor the possibility to apply this law, nor react in a realistic way in a potential danger from such social phenomena. Unless the promoter wants to play, and then accuses his political opponents of neonasism, fascism and other things, because he says such things as a glass of water. So that's what we're facing today and it's not burning this again in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21196	Thank you. The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21197	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, putting this bill into the assembly procedure and way of discussing the bill, as well as the fact that the government has not declared itself to this bill, testifys to the kind of political trade established between Boris Tadic and Mr Nenad Canka. If you please, I will give you my humble opinion of what this trade is about. Obviously, the thing about adopting the Duke's statutes is stuck. In October of last year, the Vojvodina Assembly adopted the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, which is, to the greatest extent, directly opposite of its provisions and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and some generally accepted principles of legal normation in all civilised and democratic states. Until today's proposal for the Statute of Vojvodina has not entered the procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and this is more evidence that there are obviously some problems, not only within the parties that form the ruling coalition at the level of the Republic of Serbia and at the level of the AP Vojvodina, but obviously there are some conceptal conflicts within the DS itself. It's a public secret that there are at least two wings in the DS. One thing is, conditionally speaking, the duchess, and the other is, again, a conditionality, a Serbian, Belgrade wing. It seems that these from the Belgrade-winged DS have become clear that the Statute of Vojvodina is a very dangerous political act, that it is an introduction to the independence of the northern Serbian province and that it threatens us if such a statute of Vojvodina is adopted in the Vojvodina Assembly, that it threatens us to repeat the Kosovo scenario, i.e. legal basis is given that tomorrow (and when I say tomorrow, this does not literally mean tomorrow, but rather, in five, 10, 15 or 20 years) someone in the territory of the northern Serbian province declares a new independent state. Of course, there are those who will laugh at what we're saying, but some laughed in 1974 when the SFRJ Constitution was adopted. And then there were lawyers who pointed out the possibility that this constitution would pave the way for the isolation of the former Yugoslav republics, but here's twenty years later, those black hunches came true. So it is completely realistic to expect that if, God forbid, the National Assembly of Serbia confirms the Statute of Vojvodina in the form voted in the Vojvodina Assembly, it is indeed in the nearer or further future to the independence of the Vojvodina and creation in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in a practically new independent state. This duchess wing, of course, advocates the adoption of the Statutes of Vojvodina not only because of the statutes as such, but also because of some kind of political rematch by Mr Bojan Pajtic towards Boris Tadic, but also because of the fact that, when the last, or current government of the Republic of Serbia was formed, after May elections, Mr Bojan Pajtic was not given the mandate for the composition of the new republican government, although he probably expected this, the roots of animosity in relations between Boris Tadic and Bojan Pajtic have probably been dating since then. So, the thing with the Duke's statute in the Serbian Parliament is definitely stuck. In order not to be very angry with this though small coalition partner, but not so insignificant, Mr Nenad Canak, it seems that some kind of agreement has been reached, which is that the Statute of Vojvodina, as adopted in the Vojvodina Assembly, is probably not going to enter into the procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but that Mr Nenad Canak would not be too angry, in the procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, one other general legal act will be introduced, and that is the bill on banning the manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and banning the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and markings. However, the government of the Republic of Serbia has skillfully avoided giving us its opinion on this very bad bill. We could hear from DS MPs, if I'm not mistaken, only Mr Srdjan Milivojevic participated in the principle debate, that they would vote in favour of the bill, but provided that it was done, that is to amend some of the provisions in this bill. Furthermore, trade consists of the legislator of this law, so a group of the Social Democrats League MPs of Vojvodina, accepted all amendments of the Committee on Justice and Administration. When I say amendments to the Justice and Administration Committee, then I think they're primarily DS amendments. The head of the Justice and Administration Committee is Mr. Bosko Ristic. It's practically his amendments, which he filed on behalf of the DS. By accepting these amendments by the promoter, trade is definitely over. So we can expect the Democratic Party to vote in favour of this bill, which includes all its amendments. However, they have again skillfully avoided saying -- these are DS amendments, probably because of the public, and probably because they would not enter into a larger conflict with their coalition partner, the Social Democratic League of Vojvodina, but it is definitely clear that these are, in fact, DS amendments and that DS will, in all likelihood, vote in favour of this bill and so we will get another in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia in a series of bad laws that have been passed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since 2001 until today. Of course, one of the reasons why this bill is put into congregation procedure these days, in addition to this political trade that I was talking about, is another fact. Mr Nenad Canak was given the task, and not only of Boris Tadic, but also of his foreign mentors, to distract the public from some very current topics and topics that are of vital interest to the citizens of Serbia. Why would Serbian citizens, for example, consider whether this government has fulfilled its pre-election promise that pensions will be 70% of the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia? Why would the citizens of Serbia think about whether and when this government will fulfill its 1,000-euro free share promise? Why would Serbian citizens talk about whether these famous 300,000 car brands will be produced in the flag in Kragujevac? Why would Serbian citizens watch on TV as people cut their fingers off, would some minister pay attention to them? Why they strike hunger for almost a month without a minister coming to visit them in Kragujevac, etc.? Now, as these media manipulations say, "spinning" a media image in Serbia, public attention should be drawn from these life issues to some phenomena which in Serbia, thank God, are not or are reduced to some marginal individuals and very few social groups. To pass a law that needs to be regulated, in this case to ban one phenomenon, that phenomenon, first of all, must exist. As we in Serbia do not have a law on space exploration, because of the simple fact that we are not in economic power to explore the cosmos, nor do we have the technical means to do so, we do not have a law on space exploration. The United States has it, the Russian Federation has it, China has it, France has it, Great Britain has it. Serbia is gone because we simply cannot endure this race with a technologically far superior state than it is ours. If there is no phenomenon in Serbia that neither the legislators know how to baptize, so first they say fascism, then neonasism, then nationalism, then national socialism (it seems that they themselves are not clear what it is in Serbia that should be regulated by this law) and since there are no such phenomena in Serbia (of course there is no nationalism, but there is no neonasism, no national socialism, no fascism in some broader proportions, such as the socially organised movement or political party, etc.Then the question arises, "What is the meaning of this law?" Well, this law only has the sense to completely distract the public from these life issues, with topics that mean the existence of Serbian citizens and their family members on certain phenomena that are either not in Serbia at all or are completely marginal. I also said in principle that the bill was written in haste, that it was clearly not written by lawyers, but by someone who was not a lawyer. This bill contains a number of legal, nomotechnical, linguistic, logical errors and, interestingly, does not give a definition of the phenomenon that it allegedly wants to ban. So in this bill, you don't have what you normally have in good legal proposals, which is to predefine the meaning of certain terms in the bill. When you take the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, then you can know exactly what the official person means, what the official store means, what it means, what it means, what it means, what it means, what it means, what it means, what it means, what it means, what it means, what it means, what it means, what it means, what it means, what it means, what it means, what it means, what it means, what it means. You don't have that in this bill. In Article 1 The bill wants to suppress something, or something it wants to ban. In Article 1, these are neo-Nazi or fascist organizations and associations, their manifestations and the emphasis of symbols, signs or other functions. Later, in other members of the law, the termological discrepancies are fully expressed. So, Article 1 mentions neonacism and fascism, and later nationalism, neonationalism, national socialism, and then creates a complete confusion, logical, linguistic and conceptual, that you simply don't know what kind of phenomenon the legislator allegedly wants to suppress. At the time, the great German writer Gete said that whoever wants to have a clear writing style must first be clear in his head what he wants to say. Obviously, the billmaker had a problem with the phenomena he wants to define, and it's obvious that many things are not clear to them either. When they talk about fascism, neonacism, Nazism, national socialism, nationalism, neonationalism, etc., they obviously use these concepts for daily political purposes. They didn't approach this problem from a scientific aspect, from a historical aspect, from some methodological aspect. No, it's from the day-to-day policy. Every political opponent of ours we will satanicize that he is a fascist, that he is a neo-Nazi, that he is a national socialist. Otherwise, they claimed to be national socialists and Slobodan Milosevic is Europe's largest national socialist, but now they have no problem sitting together in the government and making up the assembly majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is obvious that the bill has been written exclusively out of the agenda of policy interests, in order to reduce their political competition in such a way as not to be dealt with in a very incorrect, unfair and anti-constitutional way with their political opponents, with their political and ideological insinuators. So the bill is very bad and, of course, the SRS won't vote for it. But what's very interesting is that in this bill you have a complete misunderstanding of the way the bill is written. I understand that the legislator, or these MPs are not lawyers, and they probably don't have much experience writing draft legal regulations, but then at least they could try to give some lawyer a chance to read it. Let's say they give some lawyer out of their congregation majority, they have them, or they give them to some government minister who's done law school, so he gives them his humble opinion on whether the bill is good or not. No, they took the view that only they know all about phenomena such as fascism, Nazism, neonacism, nationalism, neonationalism, etc., they have nothing to ask. It entered the assembly procedure just as it appeared (I may be wrong, may not be wrong) and Boris Tadic himself gave up the idea of adopting the statute of the Vojvodina adopted in the Vojvodina Assembly. Mr. Nenad Canak seems to have obtained a monopoly on anti-fascism in Serbia, anyone who is against Mr. Nenad Canka is a fascist, and only he is a genuine and authentic anti-fascist. Although, his dressing room doesn't exactly give him anti-fascist beliefs, but come on. So it is obvious that it is political trade between Mr Boris Tadic and Mr Nenad Canka. There is, apparently, the Statute of Vojvodina in the Serbian Assembly, but there is this kind of caucus bill on fascism, neonacism, nationalism, neonationalism, national socialism. If I missed a term, Mr. Novakovic, you fill me in. For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21198	Thank you. I'm not supplementing. Mr. Aligruditch, did you give up? Yeah. Thank you. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic called for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21199	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after every defeat of the SRS in the election, we are here to witness a strange statement - that DS is pulling on this or that wing, that it has us for this wing, for that wing, for that duke wing, for the Serbian wing... The DS is a single party implementing a single policy. I guess that's clear to all the citizens of this country, and it's probably clear to those political parties who, after each election, fall apart to traitors, followers of Cameron Manter, followers of the American ambassador, English ambassador or followers of some other leaders. I do not want to analyse the situation in other political parties, but the computer is a wonderful instrument and that is why I brought this device to parliament, to help my party colleagues, but also to my political opponents, to be able to count the MPs, how many at the beginning, how many there are in the middle of the mandate, how many there are at the end of the mandate, and how many in the next elections. I think it's the best indicator that the party is unique and the party is falling apart. I don't see the need to further explain to my political opponents whether DS is unique or not. They can look at their benches on the left and right, they can look a little bit at the O.R. and see their colleagues here today and see who's unique here and who's falling apart after every election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21200	The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21201	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on how unique the Democratic Party is both territorial and ideological, or ideological, I don't have to speak. The former mayor of Zrenjanina Goran Knezevic spoke about it a few days ago. All of what the SRS, Mr Milivojevic, has been claiming for years, about who is funding DS, what abuses you are doing through the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, through NIS -- however, by force of opportunity and before the investigative judge of the Special Anti-Organised Crime Unit in Belgrade, yours still spoke, unless you had kicked him out of the party, party colleague Goran Knezevic. He said, "What kind of companies in Black Treva that give 15,000 dinars to finance Boris Tadic's campaign, what list on the 44 DS website that is funded by DS? The real DS finance is the Vojvodina and NIS Capital Investment Fund." Another man confirmed he will call on the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic to testify. So, you have no problem, Mr. Milivojevic, with me and with the SRS, you have problems with yourself. Because you say one thing when you're in power, and when you get some weird political opportunities, you come to the authorities of the judiciary, then you tell another story. When you are in power, then you are fair, then you are for European integration, then you are for the rule of law, then you are for the interests of Serbian citizens. When you face justice, it's gone. Then there's talk about mobs, about clans, secret and public sponsors, about money bags being brought to the DS headquarters of the Vojvodina and NIS Capital Investment Fund, which stands in the vault with Boris Tadic, and then the councils are bought by municipalities in Serbia, so you have caused civil war in Serbia by stealing councils, above all by the SRS, and destroying the power elected in the elections. So, Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, look to your yard for a moment. And as for these famous mandates, I hope that Mr Nenad Konstantinovic, your party colleague, has informed you, if you have not already been to meetings of the Administrative Board and if you have not followed the media - stealing the mandate in the Serbian Parliament, you have blessed, Mr Milivojevic, and your DS. These thefts would not have been if you and the MPs from the ruling coalition had not voted in favour of the theft of the mandate and the drastic gazing of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the Rules of Procedure and the Decision confirming the mandate of the 2008 MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21202	In order not to harm the Rules of Procedure within the meaning of Article 85, I am setting a break of one hour. We'll start at 4:00. The order of speakers has been established and as soon as we open the debate at this point, we will go in that order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21203	Dear Members of Parliament, given that today is the last Thursday of the month, I remind you of the provision of Article 200(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which parliamentary issues are being asked each last Thursday of the month at a session of the National Assembly, between 16:00 and 19.00 hours, during which time work is interrupted on the agenda. I would like to inform you that I have invited the President and all members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to attend this session. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the way of asking parliamentary questions. The MP shall have the right to ask a parliamentary question to the individual Minister or Government, out of their jurisdiction, in accordance with Article 199(1). Rules of Procedure. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated, as provided for in Article 199(2). The Rules of Procedure, and the parliamentary question, shall be asked in writing or verbally, so that the presentation of the MP asking questions cannot last longer than three minutes, in accordance with Article 199(4). Rules of Procedure. The President of the National Assembly shall warn the MP who asks a parliamentary question if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority, as provided for in Article 199(6). The Government, or the Minister, must reply orally immediately to the oral question. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP in writing, within eight days of the date on which the question is asked, which is in accordance with Article 201(1). Also, according to Article 202 following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of five minutes, on the answer to his question or on the additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of five minutes. We're moving on to sending questions. The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21204	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, the first question raises many farmers in Serbia and concerns the categorization of rural households to commercial and non-commercial and, depending on it, to subsidies which they have the right to receive or not. There's been complete confusion, total chaos, and I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance, above all, because this is about the Administration of Revenue, if I could possibly get an answer to this question. A criterion was established without the criteria that, if the farmer has another source of income and is not obliged to contribute to the pension insurance of farmers, then his household is treated as commercial, regardless of the other members of his narrow household being paid a contribution for pension insurance. Then they have no right to grant. Instead of dealing with land and land funds and possibly income criteria for farmers, there are no criteria. You don't know who's drinking or who's paying. The second issue concerns the Ministry of Economy or the Privatisation Agency, with which the Ministry of Economy has ties. It's about privatizing the First Spark in Baric. The majority of the "First Spark" Baric was sold to the company Universal, which did not respect most of the obligations under the purchase contract, neither in terms of the people they took over ( they took over 250 workers, and now there are 26 workers), neither in terms of production, investment, nor the length of the commitment, nothing. The agency stuck its head in the sand, like a noose, and the First Spark was sold as old iron. Gigant, who used to employ over 5,000 people, today is a dump of old iron, healed into thorns and weeds. Third question. Believing in the vision of Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic's Minister of Infrastructure on epochal plans for the construction of Corridor 10 and other roads, I would like to see how to solve a prosaic problem, decades-old – the skates on Duboka. The other day, there was a carnage at a trafo station called "Nikola Tesla". They couldn't get past the fire brigade... Mr. Batic, three minutes. )......................................................................................................... finishing... through the slide on Deep. Every year, millions of people are spent on the spill, and there's always something to be done, but there's no solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21205	Gentlemen, I would like to ask you, since the list of elected Members is quite large, that the questions do not last longer than three minutes, and then, if you have any further questions, we will go to the second round. Thank you. Which one of the ministers wants to answer? The finance minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21206	I didn't quite understand Mr Batic's question about the categorization of agricultural households. I have to ask around the Department of Agriculture. I don't know the answer right now. Anything about subsidies or new measures I can say, but I don't know about categorization itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21207	Here you go, Mr. President. Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21208	I wanted to say that the issue of privatising the First Spark will be forwarded to the Privatisation Agency and it will prepare the answer and deliver it, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, within eight days.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21209	Mr. Grouchy, just sign in so I can give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21210	I understood Mr. Batic's question well. The stock between Umka and Obrenovac is part of Belgrade highway – Cačak – Požega – the Black Sea coast. The share is projected in the rink, the value of the works is around 200m euros, but I hope that construction of that part of the highway will begin on March 1st next year. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made a decision to enter into the project of the entire highway from Belgrade to Cačka, and to start work from March 1st. The slide is completely solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21211	Mr. Batic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21212	I thank Mr. Mrkonjic for his good wishes. The rink is completely solved, but in the imagination. The rink was never solved today, and thousands of vehicles pass that route every day. So, I would ask for a concrete answer – when will this slide be solved? Not as a good wish, but in reality. Because we've been listening in the past to the story of the highway from Horgos to nowhere and, of course, since it's nowhere, there's nothing. I don't put that on Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic's mind, but this final sentence of his, that the slide is solved, seems to me so general and too futuristic. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to point out this detail. All agricultural households are categorized to the so-called so-called ". Commercial and so on. non-commercial. Depending on whether it is commercial or non-commercial, the State grants subsidies. That's what the Department of Revenue does, not the Ministry of Agriculture. And the criterion of the Administration of Revenue is whether it is commercially dependent on the role and status of the holder of agricultural, or agricultural or rural households. If he may have some other status and if he is not only an obligation to contribute to the pension insurance of farmers, although they are members of his narrow household, although he may have 20,000 ha of land, they do not have the right to grant. And someone who isn't, and maybe has a hectare of land, he has the right to a subsidy. I guess the criterion should be land, or potential income, not bureaucratic categories by division into commercial and non-commercial households. I thank Mr. Prime Minister, and I hope to get an answer to the question of privatising the Firstiskra Baric. Because part of the answer came in part, not from the government, but from Insider. That's where we're told who owns the company that privatized most of the First Spark Barich. But I am interested in the role of the Privatisation Agency, which did not oblige the first spark buyer Baric to fulfil most of his obligations under the purchase contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21213	Thank you. Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic has a word. Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21214	I just want to say that the regulation on what households are commercial and which are non-commercial, and which are criteria for determining, brings the Ministry of Agriculture, not the Ministry of Finance. The finance department only does the technical part of the job. As far as I'm aware, they've always been the same criteria for determining what commercial or non-commercial are, and that they're non-commercial, in fact, mostly nursing households.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21215	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word. Here you go. I'm sorry, you didn't sign up, Mr. Gristle. Mr. Mrkonjic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21216	Dr. Vladan Batic is absolutely right. That's right. When I was talking about designing, it means that engineers in the imagination created a solution (that's a difficult solution, you know that) and that they created the project. It'll be over when the highway starts to be realized. But I call on Mr. Batic, I promised him that when he can, from now on to when he can, along with me and the Director of the Roads and Supervisory Authorities, we will go around that place and find the current solution to resuscitating that place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21217	Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21218	A few days ago, customs and other duties began to be charged on goods heading from central Serbia towards KIM... and under the pretext of recording the goods. [[President: Mr. Krassic, please be quiet, we can't hear the speaker.]] The head of Eulexa, Mr. Kermabon, said that the collection of customs duties was agreed with authorities in Belgrade, and that Belgrade had asked minors to start charging. I remind you that it is time for someone in Serbia to be allowed, a regulation on the release of VAT on goods going to Kosovo and Metohija, not to pay VAT and excise duty on goods going to KIM, which now serves as an excuse for Eulex and the authorities so-called. Kosovo states ask that all goods that run into Jarinje and Brnjak must be recorded in the southern part of Kosovo Mitrovica. After that, of course, other documents follow. Serbs living in the northern part of KIM believe this, if it is true that the Ministry of Finance signed a protocol with Eulex, we make them move out with KIM or take over Kosovo authorities' documents, and register with them, and pay VAT, even if in Serbia they can pay both VAT and excise on the goods, and agree with EULEX that the money will go where it is scheduled. So, did a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia sign a protocol with Eulex, and by doing so, Eulex came out of the status neutrality framework, began to carry out the activities of the Government of the Republic of Kosovo, and Serbia is knowingly participating in this, not responding to statements both Kermabon and Paul Agda that everything was agreed with the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Again, I ask the question – what profits have been paid to the director of public enterprises in 2008, on all grounds, based on profit, bonuses, premiums and prizes? I ask the minister of the diaspora - whether it's from his head or whether it's the government's decision that he says that Serbia should be in NATO, although, Mr. Minister, this assembly, where you're visiting today, you may once again, when there's some draft law on the agenda... . (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Here I am, making a decision on the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21219	Here's how we've called you so far. Since the list is definitely over, as at every session, I will give the word from the representatives of the smaller ones to the larger parliamentary groups, and that will be the order. Since MPs have applied practically from all MPs' groups, this will be the order of each session. Mr. Bogdanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21220	Thank you. As for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, no one signed any protocol with Eulex or anyone. The only contract that was signed was the one from November 2001, where we as a government and especially the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Kim insisted that all goods going to KiM be recorded. Unfortunately, in addition to the government's consent, Eulex, past the Ministry of Finance's consent, has begun to carry out certain actions, which we, as the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija and the Government, of course, have condemned. It is not true that the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not react to the conduct of the Eulex mission. I have had several meetings with the presidents of municipalities both in northern Kosovo and in the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija, and I have conveyed this very clear and precise view of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21221	Thank you. Mr. Srdjan Sredkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21222	My statement regarding my pledge to join NATO was made as vice president of the political party I belong to. So it was not given at any official meeting where I was possibly involved as a representative of the Serbian government. This question is not on the agenda right now, but I will be happy to discuss with you on every TV show or at any party meeting and defend this position that I stand for. It is not a state issue at the moment, nor has our country been called to become a NATO member, and I would like to personally welcome the moment when the call will be sent.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21223	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21224	Mr. Minister, not you personally, but your client would have to grow up a lot in order for me to go to a TV duel with you. I can't believe you're sitting in the government with other ministers who think that the National Assembly's decision should be respected and you have a double personality, which is double views -- one as a minister, and one as a vice president of the party that is in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Now, that's your understanding of what Serbia is and how Serbia needs to be further represented. And to you, Mr. KIM Minister, now I'm asking an additional question. You want to convince me that your reaction was to convey your position to the representatives of local self-government at KIM? I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia what she did about it because I'm tired of hearing you knock somewhere when it institutionalises the Republic of Kosovo as an independent state. I ask you as the people who are sitting here right now looking into the eyes of all Serbia – what are you going to do to stop carrying out KIM independence under a company implementing missions that you approved? You've convinced us here that Eulex will be an absolute neutral mission. Now you're telling us that you have to explain to the Serbs some moves of the Eulex that you disagree with. Excuse me, please, that's not how Kim defends herself. So you've been defending him for nine years and today we're from KIM beyond ever. I ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, what are you going to do to stop the institutionalization of KIM independence? Would you like us to learn from the papers about one measure at a time, carried out by the KIM missions, which came with your consent? I confess with ours, because you're constantly putting us to sleep with stories about how no one is going to kidnap us, how we're going to win a dispute before the International Court of Justice, that the UN mission is absolutely neutral, and the Eulex mission is the auxiliary body of the temporary KIM institutions. We are not satisfied with the answer that you believe that Eulex is doing things that are not agreed upon. Once again, I ask you -- how do you plan to protect 14% of Serbia's territory that is being kidnapped most drastically in history during your term of office? And if you cannot already provide a better life for all Serbian citizens, please, now, in these extraordinary parliamentary elections, hand over Serbia as much as it was when you came to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21225	Mr. Srdjan Sretkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21226	I'm not going to abuse this pay phone for party purposes. Which is a small political party and which is large, the first next election will show. I remind you that you didn't even participate in the election. And as you used to be a fiery opponent of the EU, and now you're an EU advocate, I hope that you will make progress on the NATO alliance, so in a year or two, you will have the same attitude as I do today, and I will be pleased, indeed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21227	Mr. Goran Bogdanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21228	Mr. Nikolic, I haven't given my personal position to the representatives of the municipalities, it doesn't even come to my mind. No matter how many presidents I am a personal friend of the municipality, I conveyed the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all my meetings with the representatives of the municipalities are official meetings, above all. As for our policy towards KIM, Serbia continues to fight for KIM, with all political and diplomatic means. This isn't just a phrase. You know for a fact that we have had some successes and that this is perhaps the first time in history, after 20 years and over, we have had diplomatic success in the UN. Be assured that this government will also fight, and all future governments, as previous governments have fought to preserve their territorial integrity and sovereignty in KIM space. We won't give up on that fight. And make sure that all diplomatic, economic means do everything possible to strengthen the Serb community at KIM first. When I say let's make it stronger, first of all I mean - in economic terms. The KIM ministry has already prepared a strategy for the sustainable survival and return of Serbs to KIM. This strategy is at a public debate. He will also have the opportunity to give his opinion to the KIM Assembly Committee. Local self-governments at KIM have made their remarks and suggestions. We won't give up on that, no matter who's in power, who's the minister and who's the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21229	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Nikolic. I'm sorry, you have no right. You'll talk when we're done with the first round. We agreed, so you could all get to your turn, we could go first with the use of the right for three and five minutes. Mr. Markovic, I'll give you a measure. Don't throw away. Mr. Nikolic, I think it would be correct for everyone to make one round of questions and comments within five minutes. You have a strict business right, but you will bring your fellow MPs into a situation that no question will arrive to ask. It was the same with Mr. Batic, he had three minutes and five minutes. I'd like to ask you, collegiately, to allow... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21230	Mr. Bogdanovic, she also had the Imperial Russia of such a minister, his last name was Podkin. And don't, please, tell me about you fighting for KIM and don't keep fighting like you've been in your political career so far. Neither while you were part of the Kosovo government, nor while you were part of the Serbian government. Just don't mention your fight for KIM and empowering the economic status of citizens in KIM, because of this economic status they move from day to day. It would be fairer to say - I can't do anything down there, and to resign if you can't, or if the other part of the government doesn't listen to you. That would be fairer. And you, Mr. Sredkovic, will be applauded only by the sheiks for what you said. I did participate in the elections, and I would very much like to see your list pass on its own once, not being led by Boris Tadic and later complaining that he is sick of small political parties blackmailing the government of the Republic of Serbia and thus getting some points. I think we've ended the political conflict with the SPO by disappearing the SPO. You are now just one little finger of DS, and I'm surprised to see Mr. Tadic leading you in the first place, and I'm surprised the diaspora has agreed to SPO take care of her for years. Because the way you take care of the diaspora, it is evident that they have no right to vote in our elections at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21231	Mr. Riza Halimi has the word. The next MP who can ask is Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic. Mr. Halimi, just sign up to give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21232	Thank you, Madam President. I'd like to ask Mr Dinkic a question. He was gone last time, and he's not here now, but since Prime Minister Cvetkovic's here, I'll give him a question. I'm asking again because there hasn't been an answer since March this year. The issue concerns discrimination made during the auction of the company "Brothership" in Presevo. The condition for the purchase of this commercial company was that the owner or even a candidate for purchase owns a four-star hotel. Since the competition published in the daily "Politics" figures only a small part of the property available to this company, the question is whether the same problems will occur within this company as the company Elektrocontact, where it was subsequently proven to belong to a customer and property that was not auctioned, and in this case, the company "Brothership" has so far been unable to prove that it owns more than half of the shops. I think it's time for this very important question for the citizens of Presheva to finally be answered. Next, I will ask Mr. Minister Chiplic – when and if there is any chance that we will get a law on national councils soon? For many years, we have been taking part in a public debate in the preparation of this law, although it is very important, it needs to solve a very sensitive problem, and I have no information at all whether this bill has been discussed in the Government and when it will be in the Assembly? I also have an additional question, actually a commentary on Minister Ljajic's response. Although he is not here, perhaps someone else will give an additional explanation, and the issue concerns the retirement of our citizens who have previously worked in the area of Kosovo. The answer I received is inadequate, because it says: 'As there has been no income from Kosovo and Metohija since 1999 based on contributions to pension and disability insurance for current employees, there is no basis for paying out pensions to users from that area, regardless of the time when the right has been achieved... '"
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21233	Mr. Halimi, it's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21234	Do we have five minutes right for this?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21235	No, I don't. You have three minutes to ask questions. When you get an answer, you can comment within five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21236	I got the answer. I'm commenting on the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21237	That's the answer you got earlier. Okay, you have the right to use another five minutes, but then you have no right. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21238	I'm done with the questions. This is just a comment right now. I've just quoted the answer that further mentions UNMIK's regulation. 20001/35 on pensions in Kosovo. I think the answer is declassified, and it's not appropriate at all. I asked for an answer to the problems of the citizens of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje, I even specifically mentioned a gentleman, Mr Kelmendi, who lives in Novi Pazar, and I get an answer for the problem that is very difficult for pensioners from Kosovo and who is given a certain answer here, but I insist that both this assembly and the government and the minister deal more seriously with the very sensitive problem of citizens who have met the conditions for retirement and cannot use pension or reduce pensions for as many years as they have worked in Kosovo earlier because they allegedly have no original documentation in Belgrade. And we know that since 1990, when the new constitution was adopted, the PIO Fund has been centralized and that there is absolutely no speech at the centre, in the PIO in Belgrade, there is no documentation for all citizens who until that time were entitled to retire.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21239	It's been five minutes. Please bring to an end the comments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21240	I'm asking this to be treated more seriously, because there's no point in...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21241	Thank you. Your comments will be forwarded to the resolution ministry. The word is Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21242	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, the Honorable Prime Minister, the honourable ministers, it is very difficult to ask questions when there are not exactly those resolute ministers I wanted to ask them to, but the prime minister is there, and I think the finance minister will be able to answer my question in part. The question refers specifically to the city of Kraljevo, to the problem of water supply. The city of Kings has been having a water problem for years, there are known major problems that have been with phenol. Somehow, it's been remedied, but we have a big problem with the capacity and production of water. You all know that the King's City, which received another 30,000 displaced and evasive faces, and it was completely unacceptable that the city, in which the economy had practically stopped, separated 15 million dinars and when the Water Directorate separated 22 million dinars, the NIP suddenly retreated from 18 million dinars. The issue was for Minister Verica Kalanovic – why did she do it in a city where there is a big problem in summer, entire settlements such as Grdic hair, Ratar property, Jarcujak, Kovaci, Zica, Cibukovac have no water. I would ask the Prime Minister to intervene in this situation, because the additional problem is, as I said, a major problem for displaced and evasive faces. The second question is for the foreign minister, I hope the prime minister will answer. We are witnessing today that French President Boris Tadic and Foreign Minister, who is concerned with the issue, and we have seen that they are present at the Roland Garos tournament, but it would be better if, when they are already in France, they went to Lyon because it is planned to lift the consulate in Lyon. In the Lion area, 25 to 30,000 Serbian citizens from the diaspora, for which the consulate performs various services, which feel that they belong to the state and people in Lyon and the surrounding area are completely surprised by such a move by the foreign minister. I'd like an answer to that question. I'll use the time to ask the Prime Minister a direct question, which bothers the opposition here. Mr. President, when the laws are in the process, please send in the resolution ministers in the future. The opposition is irritated by the fact that we keep coming from ministers who are not in charge of a law that is in the process and we cannot work adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21243	Thank you. Who wants a word from the minister? Mr. Cvetkovic, Prime Minister, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21244	I thank you for the questions you asked. I'd like to start with this last question. I really insist that the resolution ministers defend the law, but it happens that sometimes they are not able (traveling outside the country, etc.) And then, in that case, we have to find a replacement. Unfortunately, no one from the ministry is allowed to address it, but it has to be the level of the minister. So then we're providing other ministers, and we can't let them answer, say, the Secretary of State, who might have better answers. I want to avoid it as much as possible and thank you for raising that question. As far as the King's water supply issues are concerned, I have to say that I will ask around, to determine what it is about this particular project, but I can answer why it gave up the project. In fact, it was that we in the last round, when adjustments of total expenditure were made, were obliged to reduce the budget to that so-called. discretionary expenditures of about 26%, so for one quarter, and in that sense the NIP projects were found precisely in a group of discretionary expenditures and then each fourth, so I say, the dinar had to be eliminated from expenditure for this year. Whether it was done on this particular project of yours, and if it could have given up on someone else, I can't answer that, but I'll ask around and see what's going on. Maybe if it's really so critical, there's some redistribution going on, I don't have any data on it right now. Also, when it comes to the Lion Consulate, the question of saving and the question of how this limited budget is spent is issues that the resolution ministries really know best to answer, so I'm going to pass this on to the Foreign Ministry, too, to see what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21245	Thank you. Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21246	Mr. President, at the beginning of my presentation, I said that the problem is that certain ministers are not here. I thank you for forwarding this second question to Mr. Jeremic, but I would like to return to the first question – the problem of water supply. If I told you that the capacities of the royal water line are 300-325 liters per second, the problem of one of these, as experts say – A1 with a well gallery, would absolutely solve the problem of water supply in the King. I understand very well that you have now mentioned saving, but the problem is that these funds have not gone far, for some of the things that are necessary, but right around the King are doing marketing moves with those money that people need to drink water. I've practically told you now, I haven't been able to explain before, it's that some minor matters in the King end with 18 million dinars, so I'd like to ask you to respond urgently, because people in the King need to have an absolutely satisfying flow of water during the summer period through their taps. It's also a problem in high salters, which I didn't say a moment ago, so I ask you once again to examine this situation and react urgently, because don't make this 18 million, and 40 million people are provided, suffering both the city and the citizens of the Kings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21247	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21248	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, we have three questions for today and they are all related to the so-called Public service, or RTS. The first question is whether the government and the competent ministry are even interested in what is happening in our media, and above all on RTS, which is the only television paid directly by Serbian citizens through subscription, and indirectly, because it is financed from the budget. So I think there is a strong obligation for the government to deal with reports on how these funds are spent. I say this because there are many suspicions and many criminal charges against Aleksandar Tijanic, director of RTS, about the way he spends those funds. I'll read to you later the parts of the auditor's report on the final bill Mr. Tijanic filed. The second question is, also related to this – why does the Government not fulfil one of its basic functions, which is to take care of the protection and enforcement of the law, do nothing or what is the government's intention to do to comply with the Law on Broadcasting and the Law on Public Information, which RTS does not respect, above all, the leadership of RTS? The third question - if the prime minister in his exhibition last May, or in June when the government was already created, as one of the main elements of government work, the government's strategy, cited further Europeanisation of society in Serbia, how it is possible for the media to remain far in the trap of the same Europeanisation and whether it means that the government is politically thinking that it is possible to create a free and democratic country with such an institution, etc. Public service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21249	Thank you. Who wants to answer? Prime Minister, Mr. Cvetkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21250	I will try to answer these questions, although many of them are generally asked. When asked if the government is interested in what is happening in the media, the answer is very simple – yes, we are interested, but we are not interested in intervening in editorial policy, we are already interested in preserving media independence. You can see for yourself that the government isn't some particular favorite of most media, but we're still not taking any steps to put pressure on and order what's going to be said about us. As for the Law on Broadcasting and Respect of the Law in general, the Government is of course committed to respecting the law, but when it comes to the media, I must say that it is a sensitive area and that any major involvement in the work of both the RRA and the media in general and other independent institutions is immediately caused by some suspicion that the Government has some particular intention behind it. That is why we are passive, insisting on compliance with the legal rules. Of course, we are a pro-European government and in this context we are trying to build a system that is similar to the system in Europe in all respects, both economically and in the media, and we would also like the bearers of media words, i.e. media followers, to look at these European values. That would also be for us some kind of satisfaction and pleasure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21251	Thank you. Mr. Andric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21252	I'm glad to hear it, but I find it hard to understand, Mr. Prime Minister. I'll also try to explain why I'm saying it, with no intention of plowing with you. Namely, I have in my hand a report from the Republic Broadcasting Agency, which is called "RTS as a public service – a way of fulfilling the legal programming obligations". In order to understand, above all, Serbian citizens, as well as the MPs, why it was done, RTS, which pleads to be a public service, has the obligation to create a special programme compared to other commercial televisions. It is this particular feature of the programme that allows RTS to finance itself from TV subscription as the country's only television. That's why he's not competitive. Because it receives money from subscription and from the budget, which in our opinion is wrong, RTS has an obligation to produce an educational programme, a children's programme, a cultural and artistic programme, specialized regular programmes that monitor the activities of religious communities, specialised regular programs that monitor the position and cherish the cultural identity of members of national minorities, regular programmes intended for the non-governmental sector, regular programmes intended for disabled persons. The state-owned RRA has been watching both RTS programs for a month. I'll read you the results. In the first programme of the month, no premiere or re-recognizable educational show of its own production has been broadcast. None, except for the Second Channel of Religious Calendar at 05:45 in the morning. It's about the education program. As far as children's programme is concerned, there has been no broadcast on the first RTS programme of children's programme of own or domestic independent productions. This is a direct violation of the law. It's about Articles 77 and 78. The law on broadcasting. The cultural and artistic programme – there are a lot of problems in this report; it is essential that these shows have little, to be broadcast without notice and logouts, headlines, that they are often interrupted. Let me go to other functions. Programmes that monitor the work of religious communities – on the First Programme, no show on the activities of religious communities has been broadcast. Programmes dedicated to the NGO sector – no emissions are dedicated to programmes in the NGO sector. Programs for people with special needs – not broadcast, which is the biggest scandal, no show on the First Program. The documentary program, without the announcement of a set of names, is broadcast in terms of about eleven o'clock in the evening or six o'clock in the morning. Let me read you the conclusion. It's on page 24. The absolute conclusion is that the first RTS programme failed to fulfil its duties as a public service broadcaster in no segment. In that conclusion there are many other attractions. Allow me, since we have time to share them with you. For example, the most educational-cultural and artistic emissions, the majority of the representative emissions of independent productions, documentaries, especially children's programmes (this is particularly underlined), so from this misery which was otherwise broadcast, was broadcast in the period between two and eight hours in the morning. Emissions specific to the Public Service due to the start of Serbian competitors' tennis matches, mostly without warning or announcement, are often interrupted 22 times in a month. Many shows and regular shows, therefore of these played, are broadcast on both the First and the Second Programme at the same time. The episodes of individual series are often repatriated at a short time interval. There's also an amazing example here, that there's a show, I'm sorry I don't know it, a series called "Beyond the Title," which has only eight episodes, those eight episodes have been broadcast 34 times on channel 2. Sometimes once, sometimes two, sometimes even four times a day. So 34 times on Second and 33 times on Channel One one show. A significant number of new productions are signed in Latin. It's for this part of the government... (President: It's been five minutes. You may be considered to have been asked questions and comments, but if no one will answer, you have the right to another five minutes. Will you later, allow others to ask questions? ) Therefore, further, the assessment of the situation in a broadcasting facility, made by independent experts, is up to one of the same observations. These remarks do not apply to the period since you, Mr. Cvetkovic, prime minister, are no time that goes backwards. Of course, there are a lot of irregularities. Irregularity, for example. that one member of the RTS Management Board is located in that place, directly contrary to the law. He is a member of the DS General Board, a party in power. This is directly contrary to the Law on Broadcasting. Also, the father of that same board member has a production house called the High Voltage, which broadcasts a quiz, and it receives some compensation for participating in the quiz. I'm only talking about breaking a law that can be seen at first sight. In an independent auditor's report, which I hired RTS for the final account... I'm glad, Mr. Cvetkovic, that this is funny to you and I'm very happy about it, but believe me, and last time I spoke, if you're so relying on a man who was a servant to everyone in this country, I think you'll end up just like all those who he was a servant to. Some of them died in The Hague, some are in a refugee camp in Moscow, and some are now full outsiders of political life in Serbia. The ratings are not controversial, but ratings are not the aim of the Public Service. Public service is financed from special funds just to be an alternative to commercial content, to release what is important for society, and that commercial televisions have no interest in playing. When we enter that viewership, we will see that most of this ratings is the result of a series called "Better Life", which has nothing to do with Aleksandr Tijanic, or a series of "Happy People" or some other series or movie "Titanic", which has nothing to do with Aleksandr Tijanic, except represent the future of his destiny. Let me go back to the independent auditor's report. The report on 31 December 2007 (you were not the prime minister at the time, but I suppose you are familiar) says that the final report submitted by RTS is in accordance with the law, but that it is a real little wonder since it is unclear to an independent auditor how RTS as an institution can function at all. As he functioned, we learned in 2008 (or it was in 2007) when he received an alleged loan of 1,400,000 from the Serbian government. We're interested in how this loan was spent. We're ready, and we're going to give you all the documentation on "Eurovision," so-called. independent productions within the Public Service, on numerous violations of the law, but I ask you once again to answer me – why does the government ignore these requirements that have been in place in the public for months and how will the government ensure the functioning of the law in Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21253	National MP Vladimir Milentijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21254	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, by forming the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which you are leading, Mr Cvetkovic, in your exposé, you have put two priorities in the Government – the preservation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the preservation of KIM in the composition of the Republic of Serbia and the entry of the Republic of Serbia into the EU. As far as the entry of the Republic of Serbia into the EU is concerned, there is nothing controversial about it. Only questions are asked – at what cost, with what territory and when will we join the EU? I do not believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has answers to these questions, and if there are, I would like to hear them. On the other hand, as regards the preservation of KIM within Serbia, my impression, the impression of Serbs and non-Albanians living in Kosovo and Serbs and non-Albanians being expelled from KIM, as well as the vast majority of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is that the government of the Republic of Serbia is still from KIM. In addition to the demands of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the International Court of Justice in The Hague to give an opinion on the legality of the self-proclaimed Republic of Kosovo, lobbying among countries that have not recognised independent Kosovo that they do not do so to the International Court of Justice and the controversial statements by officials of the Republic of Serbia that they will never recognise independent Kosovo – I am asking you, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia – what, except in these three cases, does the Government of the Republic of Serbia take on the ground to preserve its southern province in the form of the Republic of Serbia, the sustainable survival and return of Serbs and non-Albanians to KIM, to solve life problems which are everyday life in KIM and to restore confidence to Serbs and non-Albanians in defending its southern province?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21255	Thank you. Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21256	I thank you for correcting those two basic priorities. So this is a government that is pro-European, but at the same time does not want to give up defending its territorial integrity and sovereignty. Regarding the first question you asked - when we will join the EU, I must say that the Expose was not the goal of joining the EU in the mandate of this government, but of moving in that direction. It is true that some of the ministers bid until that month, until that year, etc. I've never bid and I don't want to bid, but what we're working on, what we're working on and what we're going to do in the future is that every day we're getting closer and closer to the EU in terms of a system that we want to introduce, a successful economic environment and an orderly society with a rule of law. We do, so it's actually our orientation, and that's how we should expect this government to work in the next period. As for what we're doing, it's your second question, to defend sovereignty and territorial integrity, first of all, I'd like to say that, as you've had the opportunity to see in Expose and hear in our performances, we're taking all available, but diplomatic and peaceful means. So we are not going to create some tensions, to use funds from the arsenal used earlier, but to focus exclusively on what, in the extreme line, this Europe admits, and these are diplomatic and peaceful funds. Since your question was also about concrete field activities, in this context I would ask the KIM Minister to give some information on the specific things that have been done in the last few months.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21257	Here you go, Mr. Bogdanovic. You just have to sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21258	As the prime minister said, according to KIM, we have an active policy and it is, above all, a diplomatic and legal struggle to preserve KIM within the Serbian state and, as I said earlier, the economic strengthening of Serbs and other non-Albanians in the KIM area. Since my arrival at the head of the KIM Ministry, we have funded many projects in the KIM area, not only in the north of KIM, but in the entire territory where Serbs live. I will only list here, for the sake of the public, first of all, because I know that Mr Milentijevic, who is a member of the KIM Assembly Committee and lives in KIM, knows perfectly what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has funded in its Zubin Potok municipality. Since my arrival we have funded the facility of a combined children's facility in Leposavic, the residential village of Mali Zvecan, there are projects that we completed either at the end of 2008 or in early 2009. We built two kindergartens, kindergarten and Dom culture, i.e. administrative centre in the municipality of Kosovo Vitina, in Vrbovac. Reconstruction of local self-government facilities in the municipality of Vučitrn, in Prilujje. Reconstruction of official premises in the Municipality of Gorazdevac, i.e. The Municipality of Pec. Reconstruction and upgrade of the cooperative home in Osojan and reconstruction of primary and secondary schools in the municipality of East, in the village of Osojana. Then, the children's kindergarten in Sočanica, the annex of the school in Leposavić, we finished, then the kindergarten in Ranilug and these days we have already given the order to the municipality of Gjilana to build a kindergarten, in Prilužje it has already started to build a kindergarten. We want to round up one process, that literally in every local self-government where Serbs live there are children's kindergartens, that children in KIM can live normally, that they can play normally, like all children in the rest of Serbia. I will also mention the projects that the Ministry of National Investment Plan is through the Ministry of KIM in 2009, i.e. projects that were run in 2008, it is an upgrade of the building of the technical school of the municipality in Zvecan, construction and asphalting of city streets in Zubin Potok, then a programme for the care of internally displaced persons in the Kosovo-Mitrovar County. You know for a fact, that we have implemented this action to the end and that we started to carry out this action in 2009. Then we have the construction of an ambulance in Žitkovec, the reconstruction of the street in Zvecan, the reconstruction of the network of local roads on the territory of the municipality Zvečan, the construction of the village road Donja Jerinje, the reconstruction of the low voltage network in Zvecan, the reconstruction of the asphalt road of Gazivod-Citluk, the Zubin Potok - Dren. It's all 2009 projects that started to build. Funding has been continued and two projects are under construction, which is the construction of a residential building in Leposavic, the construction of a sports hall, the reconstruction of an internal block building in Kosovo Mitrovica, and the reconstruction of a hospital building Surgical block in Kosovo Mitrovica. Of course, the KIM ministry, namely the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will invest much more in KIM premises. You know, we started one action after 10 years, and we managed to save over 140 million dinars, which will be invested in the KIM infrastructure. So we won't ask the government or the KIM Ministry for any new expenditure of this kind.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21259	Thank you. Mr. Milentievich has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21260	Mr. President, I only asked you one question, I had no objections regarding the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. The last question is specific to you. I did not ask for an answer from Mr Bogdanovic because I know how limited his ministry is in its operation, just as much as the government of the Republic of Serbia that you run. I asked you to answer the question of what you would do to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of KIM. You, Mr. President, have not yet visited your southern province as prime minister of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia recognised the KIM Assembly of Communities by a regulation, and you, as Prime Minister, have never received a delegation from the Assembly even though it has asked for your reception countless times. You ignored a petition of 75,000 Serbs and non-Albanians living on KIM to not accept the Eulex mission, warning you that acceptance of the Eulex mission is devastating for Serbs and non-Albanians on KIM. You have celebrated as a diplomatic victory an agreement of six points in Belgrade -- Ban Ki Moon, it is now quite clear, as a cover for accepting the Eulex mission, and the agreement remains a dead letter on paper. You accepted the Eulex mission without a decision from the Serbian Parliament. The mission has been deployed in the entire KIM territory. They implement Ahtisaari's plan and create an independent state of Kosovo. On the contrary, Serbs and non-Albanians at KIM are on their own. They're looking for answers to a lot of questions, and there are no very difficult questions. The situation is never worse and never harder, and the Ministry of KiM practically doesn't work. That's what your coalition partners have been warning you about lately. That's what I argued from this place the other day and asked the government of the Republic of Serbia to propose amendments and amendments to the Ministry of Ministries Act and that the Serbian Parliament abolish the Ministry of Kosovo for Metohija, a team before the KIM minister can't enter his territory from the day before yesterday. The government should lead the internal and external policies of the Republic of Serbia. I know that the politics of the Republic of Serbia, both external and internal, are not being led by you, but by the president of the DS and the president of the Republic of Serbia, so I would ask you one question - do you, Mr. Prime Minister, feel the uncertainty, pain and suffering of the failed Serbs and non-Albanians in Kosovo? I'll ask you, Mr. President, and three questions. First, what about the agreement at six points in Belgrade - Ban Ki Moon and did it even reach the first point of the agreement? Second -- why not invite Serbs and non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija to leave all institutions of the self-proclaimed republic of Kosovo? A third question for you – will you also ask Serbs and non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija not to go out in the local elections issued by the institutions of the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo, since the local elections in KIM were conducted in accordance with the law of the Republic of Serbia? I ask you, Mr Skundric, why did you allow the humanitarian disaster of Serbs and non-Albanians south of Ibra, referring to the power outage, and does the EPS have technical opportunities to shut down electricity for Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija? If he does, why doesn't he?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21261	Thank you. The word has a prime minister. Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21262	I'm going to give my answer very briefly, because I understand that you weren't pleased that the answer to your question about working on the ground was not me, but the KIM Minister. I want to tell you that we do not have a different policy within the government and that now I have one, the Ministry of Kosovo another, the Ministry of Energy of the Third, but it is one common policy. For this very reason, I have given my word to Minister Bogdanovic, in order to inform you better about what is going on in Kosovo and in the field. I don't think I was wrong because you got a much more exhaustive answer from him than I'd be able to give it to you since he runs those jobs. Regarding these questions that you have asked about our people who work in their temporary institutions, about six points etc., we have actually tried through the question of six points and we are trying to solve these problems, while at the same time using, as I said, legal, peaceful and other ways that do not involve violence, to fight, of course diplomatically, to preserve our sovereignty. Be assured that we will continue to do so. Of course, every opportunity we're given, we'll take advantage of it that way. I would also like to say that when it comes to electricity, if you ask if we feel like people when we see that someone has no electricity for a few days, of course we feel and of course we work and that our people go and talk. So these are the jobs that are being done in continuity, but the details of these jobs I cannot give you the exact answers, but it is precisely the people who were directly involved in and held negotiations and talks, and that is, as I said, first of all, the resolution minister to whom I gave my word. Now I'd like to ask the Minister of Energy to give you an answer on energy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21263	Here you go, Mr. Skundrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21264	Dear Mr Milivojevic, ladies and gentlemen, if it were up to the will of any member of the Assembly and the Government, the problem would never arise, I believe. You certainly know well that the will of the state is not enough to solve certain problems that have arisen in our southern province in such a way. I mean, when it comes to my sector of responsibility, that both the Ministry and the Public Enterprise of Serbia have done everything in their jurisdiction and power to make the largest number of our citizens, both Serbs and non-Albanians and others, have electricity. You know that EPS has built in the last few months and one trafo station in Zvecan. I personally attended the opening of that trafo station. I went to talk to local self-government about what we could do. The government of the Republic of Serbia is doing everything in its power, forming working bodies and conducting talks with the civilian mission. We want to be forced by individual factors to speak directly to representatives of the established Kosovo authorities, which neither this government nor my ministry nor I personally can accept. They'd like us, in that way, indirectly, to recognize the independence of KIM. On the other hand, we are doing everything in our power to find technical solutions to provide all our citizens with electricity and normal living conditions. I know it's a couple of excellencies and a political and existential question, and we're looking for answers to these questions and we're finding solutions. Today, representatives of the KIM Ministry, the Ministry of Mining and Energy and the JP EPS were also considering technical opportunities to provide electricity, especially for that part of the enclaves, where this is a bigger problem than in the northern part of KIM. We have offered civilian missions to provide the donation system with the necessary amounts of electricity, which is unfortunately not accepted. We were ready to give as much electricity as it would take for the Serbs and non-Albanian population to give to some of the Albanian population in KIM, with the desire to resolve the existential issues of our people. We are considering technical possibilities for creating conditions that individual enclaves have their own power sources. We are considering ways of looking for solutions through some friendly countries, to form certain conditions and opportunities that I would not like to talk about right now, because there will be conditions and opportunities when we agree with these friendly countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21265	Mr. Milentievich, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21266	Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Secretary Skundric, all this stuff you've been saying, I know. I didn't ask that, because I live on KIM and I'm a member of the KIM Committee and I know all your activities. But in order not to owe and disturb other colleagues to ask questions, since I have asked very specific questions, and I am not satisfied with the answers, I ask you to provide me with written answers to specific questions, just as I have asked them. On the other hand, the problem that we from the DSS and most parliamentary groups pointed to was this devastating Eulex mission, because we knew what their goal was. You are now powerless before the Eulex mission, which is perfectly normal because they aim to create an independent Kosovo. You have to admit it once. And while our Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, who lives in Kosovo and Metohija, and his family is in Kosovo and Metohija, cannot enter his territory, you allow all the heads and chiefs of the Eulex to walk freely in Belgrade and give you lectures.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21267	The word is made by the People's Messenger Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21268	Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, it seems to me that, first of all, I must thank Mr Skundric, because you, Mr. Minister, have just said what we have been talking about for a number of months, if not a year, that it is indeed all the efforts of the United States to indirectly recognise the independence of Kosovo and Metohija. So we're not looking forward to that fact. We understand and understand that the government is in a very difficult position, but also most often we have no information as to what seems to really resist the extraordinary impression that a force, of course, on an international stage, has climbed on its feet and set foot on Serbia's territory, which is the Russian Federation, seems to have been a recent visit to Serbia, and it seems to me that the United States is very nervous about what is happening in the territory of the Serbian state. But we will continue to try to inform the public of the Serbian state in good time of all that we are not officially informed of, but we find out in real time based on our inside sources. I must express a very big regret that Mr. Jeremic is most often not there, and he participates in local elections, for example, appearing in certain stands when it comes to the Zemun municipality. Let's just say it was supposed to be there and give some answers when it comes to harsh diplomatic activity, so we would know what a reference framework is and what the government's relationship to such a sensitive issue really is. We are, of course, frustrated by the short time and duration of this session that happens every last Thursday of the month. What we have to say is that the SRS launched a long-term "Stop Discrimination" campaign some time ago. And they have the right to live a worthy man." This is for you, Mr. Chiplet. I think this time I'm going to burden you with a huge number of questions. Because when citizens in Serbia no longer trust institutions that should serve their basic needs, who can they address? Unfortunately, only the Ministry of Protection and Human Rights. What I should probably start from is that I may have been denied the possibility of, say, some of your ministry being with me, even indirectly, to see how people really live and what reality looks like in Serbia. Often and sometimes, it seems to me that the representatives of the government live in some parallel reality, talking about the life that happens to some others, but not to the majority population in the state of Serbia. We will be quite free to refer everything we have detected as a flagrant violation of basic human rights to your respective ministry. This time, I'll start only a few examples with concrete data, just to see how you think you can fix the reports when it comes to protecting and improving human rights in Serbia's territory, and as far as... (President: Mrs. Ragush, three minutes have passed. )......................................................................................................... You see, that's what I'm talking about, it's really a frustration of the limitations of time. I don't know how you're gonna answer me for this right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21269	There is no discrimination, it is time for you as well as for other MPs. So you have to fit in. Mr. Chiplet, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21270	First, the ministry is not for the protection and promotion of human rights, but for the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. I don't think it's a malicious misalignment of the ministry, but that's how many people experience the ministry. Unfortunately, the Ministry is an authority of the administration and is not an organ that can protect human or minority rights in any way. In any case, given that the Ministry participates in the implementation of the strategy or in the creation of action plans, it is more than necessary (although I didn't understand it and I didn't hear it, and I don't think you've even finished the exposure to what kind of project it is) that with all the data you have, with the identification that these groups are at risk, you come along to find a project and identify which bodies are competent, or that all authorities could work to improve the position of endangered minority or any group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21271	Mrs. Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21272	Of course, this was an overture for that little wider time scale than those five minutes. So you'll definitely get a submission that should concern around 20,000 citizens, if not more. In the context of this election campaign, I had the opportunity to make sure on the ground that people live in 2009, that they were directly threatened by basic human rights, from the right to a man's life, because they live as in a Neolithic period. Is the problem of infrastructure - I'm in trouble now, and that's why I referred it to you as a question - whether it's a problem of municipal equipment, whether it's a problem to provide health services, whether it's a telephone connection or legalisation problem, but I certainly see, for example, the need for inter-resorial co-operation, that in the central Belgrade municipality, these people are given the life of a decent man. I've been researching, of course, your website, so among other things, I've just found guidelines in the Human Rights and Promotions Sector concerning all of this, and it concerns the citizens of Belgrade and the citizens of Serbia, because they no longer have, Mr. Chiplic, whom to turn to. They spoke to everyone, and to local authorities and central authorities, and they never got an answer to that. And not to tell you that in time, without the possibility of institutions working for them, because that should have been the case, because you are all just a service of the interests of Serbian citizens, nothing more and nothing less... Now I speak to you on their behalf, and we'll send a submission. For example, I'm talking about Decada Roma, I read your action plan for this year, it's about the Roma village of Rakovica village. There for a certain number of years, more than a decade, lives over 300 people without everything, without electricity, without water, without being able to record and thus earn their bread. The question is, what about these people? And that's just one of the Roma settlements that everyone visits, we heard on the ground and recorded. Everyone promises a man's life worth living, and those promises are mainly under election campaigns. We now want concrete information on how much funds have come to improve life, for example, the Roma population. And we in Serbia have more and more vulnerable groups, are they single mothers, refugees and displaced persons... The majority of the population is becoming a slow but certainly hugely endangered group in the state of Serbia, a group of citizens who have their own name and last name, who have no one to turn to, because the competent institutions have disobeyed their demands. What's very frantic and what's also seen in this campaign period, I'm giving an example, we visited kindergarten to show on the spot that kindergarten has no capacity, that parents who send their children can't be at peace that children are in a safe place, because there is no fence. So we filmed a couple of kindergartens whose, for example, courtyards during the evening become stragglers, vagrants and junkies. The press crews shot the syringes with us, for example. All these people, in time, since it was a surrender work, invested their resources to have their children's lives and to grow up the way they should. They complained to everyone, and no one moved their fingers. But since we (just because most of the government's representatives get incomplete answers, you speak in general categories, you haven't concretely) recorded on the spot as it seems, do you know what's happening now, Mr. Chipletic? The directors of these kindergartens are in fear of local democratic authorities and are asking us not to come to those locations anymore because they fear for their jobs. Then tell me what's wrong with their human rights. It's the state of Serbia. We live in that reality. In the state of Serbia, people are afraid to speak publicly, but still, they're talking to us and look, these are all mostly citizens' letters, which I will only partially present to you here. They fear because they fear for their existence, because they know that if they lose their jobs, and that fear is stronger than fear for their own life, they have lost everything in the state of Serbia. So, the state of human rights in the state of Serbia is what should really be the call to your portfolio's alarm in the first place.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21273	Thank you. Mr. Chiplet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21274	Of course, when you go to the field and see what life is like, first of all, Roma, it always hits a man. The only problem is that when people first go there and see such settlements, they think nothing has been done for them, and believe me, Serbia has since 2005 been in the Decada of Roma inclusion. Serbia entered the work in 2005. It's just, as far as our fellow citizens of Roma nationality are concerned, which I spoke publicly at a press conference when we presented a strategy to improve the situation of Roma two months ago, eternal separation, segregation of Roma citizens from others, it's impossible to fix for a short time. I expect that we will cooperate together and that it will not only be during the campaign, but as the Decade of Roma Inclusion continues. As for certain elements related to improving the position of Roma citizens, I must say that there is hope and desire, given that one thing is related to the legalization of Roma settlements. For now, and this has been done in the previous government, 14 Roma settlements have reported in all of Serbia that could enter into legalisation as they are now. The second stage is the establishment of such settlements that will provide Roma with living conditions and conditions for human-worthy housing. Since we all know how much resources are needed, it is necessary to pre-preparate the planning documentation and take over the type of no-house system that one of the UN specialised organisations, called UN-HABIT, gives in 2010. So in 2010, we will enter into the realisation and creation of those settlements that will allow people to live in settlements that can be called settlements for people, which is so-called. a cheap housing campaign, or cheap apartments. In 2015, the Decade of Roma Inclusions expires. We are already working on that not only Serbia, but all the Decade countries, including Serbia, in particular this year's chairmanship, sign the European Roma policy, which means that not only the Decade countries, including some EU countries and countries, have been working organised to improve the situation of the Roma since 2015. As a key point, the EU has been declared, primarily Europe and then the EU, as a country of Roma, as a country of origin of Roma. Every government, this and every future one that works to improve the situation of the Roma, needs co-operation and positions and opposition because it must not be a political issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21275	Mrs. Ragush has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21276	I assume you've never been to the Roma village of Rakovica village. This Roma settlement has existed for more than 20 years. The Roma group is displaced due to the construction of Medakovic and ghettoised in Rakovica village. The surrounding locals don't allow these people to move out of the settlement, and they don't have enough containers and live, Mr. Chipletic, on one huge dump. It's said that the construction of a bypass in that area will destroy that settlement and that they will run out of roof over their heads, and now there are about 300 of them. They tried (naturally, I admit, education is a big problem in this case when it comes to inclusion) as they knew and could, through their organizations (which are obviously honoring exceptions, most often there to collect certain points) to get answers to even one of their questions and failed. I hope that during the period that is coming you will be able to, when you see the specification of all the problems of these people, actually and personally visit that settlement. So not only are they threatened by their lives because they live on a huge dump and rarely go into that ghetto, but everything that goes further from there is threatened. As the problems, Mr. Chiplic, are solved in the state of Serbia, so you had almost a situation with the first man in Belgrade. We were the first to insist that, regardless of what was done by law, these people treat people, because a man must be above every law, so we said, not the bottom, as Mr. Gilas wanted, to bring back all those who came to Belgrade where they came from, so you reacted afterwards. That's how institutions in the state of Serbia react. Let's move on, I'm trying to present all examples now, in these next four minutes, which in a plastic way reflect the image of the level of human rights and what the institution's attitude towards the citizens of Serbia. You were present when we talked about discrimination extensively and extensively. So, there is a terrible discrimination in the eyes of the entire public against political insolences and against journalists who are raising puzzling questions. These people are often left to the right media link, and then insult the reputation and honor, and most often they have to leave the cities or areas in which they are. One of the recent examples is a Belgrade-based television, which is certainly not in favour of the SRS, which has raised on a very important issue as regards Serbia's tycoonisation, and finally made a link that we have long been waiting for between really large pairs, media and organised crime, so connection with the top of the government. Then they received direct threats from attorneys Luke Belgrade, who remembered that after such a period they were sounding, in a way that was totally unacceptable. The lawyers, Luke Belgrade, even sent a letter of warning to the Anti-Corruption Council. He's laughing. I'm laughing because I'd cry otherwise, and this is a good defense mechanism. So that's what happens in the state of Serbia. We also have a case of journalist Miletić, who was brought into a public lynch situation because she was a war reporter, and that's all true. In his day, a New Sad newspaper wrote about her receiving a gift from a certain apartment. Serbia's Supreme Court ruled there was no dispute, but it was fully derivated by reputation, injured honor, and was in a link situation in the middle of Novi Sad because of it. So this whole media hack was designed to force that woman to leave Novi Sad, as recommended. And listen to what is said in one judgment, this is outrageous. So, among other things, if the honor is injured, says, since it is undeniable that the prosecutor bought the apartment at a set price, that the title is conceived to cause attention, the court is educated in such a way as to strengthen the impression it needs to produce, which is why the prosecutor is honored. Also, the court has come to the conclusion that the prosecution is not injured by the text, and now listen to this, because if it had possibly had some unpleasantness, they are not the product of the published text, but rather of an earlier period of its operation. This is outrageous, that the court says that a person has no reputation, in other words. This is why Milani Balletic (President: I thank you, it has been five minutes. Finish your sentence, please. ) really threatens persecution that Serbia has not seen.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21277	Thank you. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic. Just sign in, Mr. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21278	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, respected fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, the SPO has since the establishment advocated the return of property that was taken from citizens after World War II against law, decree, for one simple reason, which they otherwise thought, which they had had a different political commitment and because of class membership. For the SPO, it's not just about correcting injustice, it's about destroying a system based on war crimes. Unfortunately, we have an opportunity to see, compared to the passing of this law, that in the 20 years since the beginning of the multi-party, various new class groups of recent people, who have made enormous wealth in recent years, and we have had opportunities to see in some shows, such as Insiders, that these people, step by step, buy the whole country, people, MPs, like Tomislav Nikolic and him, whose mouth is full of patriotism, and after their rule we got Serbia smaller than ever was. The European pathway and the cleaning of all obstacles on the European pathway is the binding tissue that has brought together the government, the SPO and all other parties that make up the government. One of the obligations, for some, is the adoption of a law on denationalisation. I think that following the ratification of the Copenhagen conditions, the European Charter of Human Rights and the written commitment to the Council of Europe, Serbia is obliged to meet these conditions. A few years ago, a law on denationalisation was passed when it comes to churches. For purely populist reasons, some parties passed this law. No matter how well we wish for churches, it is a law that represents discrimination against citizens, who today have about a million, who expect to correct the injustices that make them 60 or more years of second-class citizens. I am glad that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are present today because we have had the opportunity to hear in the last few days statements that have been quite disturbing, from the fact that by the end of the year we will have a law on denationalisation, to the fact that it is extremely difficult, almost impossible to pass this law today. The SPO has a bill of law and is ready to participate in its creation. Also, we suggest that the sale of assets that will be in the process of denationalisation be prevented and known to its real owners. It's just amazing that those people who got rich in the accident in the '90s today are buying property and land from some who have created it for decades and inherited it from their parents. We also find it extremely important to pass this law before the system laws... (President: Time. Bring the end, please, Mr. MP. )......................................................................................................... I want... Law on public property, building land and land books. I think it's a commitment not only to some political parties...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21279	Thank you. Who from the government wants a word? Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21280	First of all, I have not noticed that there are diametrically different views on the perspective of the adoption of this law. I can only tell you that the law on public property is over, that it is now going into regular procedure, so it is sent to different ministries for opinion, and that the law on denationalisation or restitution is planned to be passed by the end of this year. So, according to the finance ministry's work plan, nothing is impossible. He's supposed to be brought to the conclusion with the fourth quarter this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21281	Thank you. Mr. Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21282	I thank you for your response and I believe what you're saying, but what matters to all citizens is – when will this law start to apply? I think we owe them that much and we can't do less than this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21283	Thank you. The first round of questions has been completed. The word is by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic. Here you go, Mr. Mojsilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, respected members of the government, I am extremely sorry that, when I want to ask a question, Mr Dinkic is not in the O.R., or at the moment I want to discuss him leaving the room, because he is clearly afraid of the Vranje MP. Or perhaps, at last, the government of the Republic of Serbia has gone into a decisive fight against organised crime, so Mr Dinkic is not here today. Vranje is one of the cities Mr Dinkic turned black. He started from Jumko, through a major investment, the opening of three thousand jobs in Zamber, and now we have this problem with public procurement in the Vranje City Assembly, which is being conducted on behalf of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development by members of the commission from public enterprises that are members of the G17 Plus party. I would not now detail this because in my earlier presentation, I spoke more specifically about the problem, but at this time, only Prime Minister Cvetkovic would hand over all the documentation on the case. I ask for an answer to the question in writing because it will be necessary for Mr Cvetkovic to review the full documentation regarding this procurement procedure. Because it is possible for Mr Dinkic, even if the commercial company performs works on the construction of the road and to change the deadlines for supplying offers in public procurement after the deadline for supplying offers, and all of this is visible from these papers. I hope that the government of the Republic of Serbia will prevent such cases from happening in the future. So the specific question is, what will happen to such cases, and will the government better control budget spending? The second question is – what will the government of the Republic of Serbia do specifically with the cotton combination Jumko from Vranja, whose majority owner is the state, and whether he has a clear vision and programme of what he will do with a giant who at the time had over 10,000 workers? As for my third question, unfortunately neither Mr. Dulic, the environment minister, is here today. I'd like him to answer that question for me. During NATO aggression, more than one-and-a-half tons of uranium-deprived bombs were dropped into the PC County. The number of cancer patients increases by 800 every year, 200% more than it was in 1999. Decontamination of the area on Robbery has been done, 108 million dinars have been spent for the decontamination, and only four cubics of the country have been expelled from Robbery. The radiation in Vranj and the surrounding area is far greater than in Vinca and other Serbian cities. Mutants are born, we had a phenomenon, for example. to be born a mouse with a squirrel's tail. I just want to (President: Time, bring the final question. ..that I know how the government will protect the citizens of the Pcinj County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21285	Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21286	On this last question, I'm going to ask the Ministry of the Environment for information on the situation associated with the impoverished uranium. However, for this question you asked me and gave me the material, so that I could process it, please give me some more information. So, the law provides that when public procurement is carried out in which damaged parties occur, they have the right to appeal and the relevant authorities make known those complaints. My question is whether the damaged party complained here, whether this went through some system, so you're unhappy with how he reacted or this is just the first part where some public procurement was done and now she's not okay, and no one has taken any further steps.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21287	Here you go, Mr. Mojsilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21288	Since Mr. Cvetkovic specifically asks the question of what is the specific case, I would be happy to answer. A public procurement procedure has been launched to build a certain route. The finance company is the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. On behalf of the companies run by the party of Mr Dinkic, public procurement was announced by the City of Vranja Public Procurement Service. The deadline for submitting tenders for the procurement expired on April 15th. By April 15th at 12:00 p.m., when the last deadline for submission of bids was set, only one company submitted the offer. Following the end of the deadline for submission, the Secretary of the Commission for Public Procurement, which has, meanwhile, been replaced orally, shall inform the bidder and all other interested parties by telephone that the deadline for the delivery of the tenders will be extended by another day. The next day, that same company is coming to open bids. However, 37 minutes after the time scheduled for the opening of the bids, a new notification arrives that the deadline is renewed. It's incomprehensible, and you'll see everything in that file. This is just one of the criminal actions that was done in the public procurement process, and there were a number of others, as clearly seen from the opening records that the company allegedly received the job did not provide for a period of payment, and was later entered in the decision to grant a job with the company a 60-day payment deadline. It's all clear from the documentation I gave you. Otherwise, the company damaged in the procedure also complained to the public procurement service of the Vranj City Assembly, as well as to the Republic Commission for the Protection of the Rights of the Providers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21289	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21290	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the government, or ministers and ministers, at the beginning, I would like to refer to a colleague of Andric. Since it is evident that the Government does not want to deal with the function of the Public Service, we call on the ruling majority to propose the establishment of a survey committee to deal with the fact that there are irregularities in the work of RTS and the reasons for the failure of the functions of the Public Service. We think it's your responsibility to take responsibility for running the country. I'll have questions, first of all, for the prime minister. I mean, for the Minister of Energy, but I think Mr. Prime Minister could answer my questions more specifically. The oil-gas agreement was passed by the Assembly by a two-thirds majority. The LDP, of course, was on the opposite side, with reasons that have shown in the past period all the justification of our opposition to such a conclusion of the Oil Treaty, or the sale of 51% of NIS to a Russian partner. Then we warned you that 51% of ownership is 100% management. To make it clear to the citizens, just to show what it means now. That means we have the most expensive gas, the most expensive and the worst fuel. That means we don't decide where the South Stream goes. That means we are not deciding on the price of fuel, as Minister Skundric said the other day, because NIS is no longer owned by the state. I must remind you that no country in the area has this kind of price of gasoline and diesel. We're the most expensive. The governor of the National Bank himself, Mr. Jelasic, said that the current price of the pump derivatives is due to the increase in excise duty as if it were a barrel of $140, not $60. The state makes 44 dinars through excise duties on every liter of gasoline and 30 dinar diesel. Since I have a few seconds left, I'd like to ask you some specific questions. Since Kiril Kravchenko, director of NIS, has announced that there will be new gatherings, can the government affect the fuel price? Was the NIS final account in front of you, Mr. Prime Minister? Madam Minister, did NIS deal with profits or losses last year?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21291	Mr. Cvetkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21292	I will answer the financial questions, and I will ask my colleague, Skundric, to answer these technical questions. Regarding the final account, the 2008 NIS business picture was done. The final account was audited by an authorised auditor, who belongs to the four largest auditors in the world, and he showed that NIS was dealing with a loss in 2008, contrary to the expectations previously expected. Of course, since the NIS management bodies also contain representatives of the minority, in this case the Government, and since the buy-in contract foresees that certain decisions are made by consensus and since it provides for certain rights and protection of minority shareholders, the minority shareholder is able to challenge this report and engage his auditor, who would either confirm or disprove them in a quality way. I think that the question of the final account and the results of the business at all is not a matter of political character, nor are these things that should be auctioned whether it is more or less, but exclusively of a professional character. The minority partner, or state, also raised the question that he is also hiring an auditor, with the auditor also being hired by the four largest auditors in the world to be in the same rank as the one who has worked and presented the current results. It is agreed with a majority partner to postpone the decision to adopt this final account, as it is now presented, until this so-called. a complete audit by an auditor who will be chosen by our side. We expect to make a choice soon and have an opinion from our auditor within the next few months. If our auditor confirms the views we received from the auditor who has been auditing so far, then it means that it is undeniable that the company has been lost. Otherwise, we'll sit down with the majority partner and agree on further views. As far as the issues are concerned, because we sold NIS now we have the most expensive price of gas, I think it's a misunderstanding. It's three transactions, which were completely independent, but linked to a single package where we, among other things, asked for all three to be realised in some way, because we expected to have a positive outcome from all of this throughout. I think we can happily say, since the question of the South Stream is at the time whether or not it will be or not, etc., that conditions have now been created, and not only will it be, but it will be within that short term. They were believed to be late due to the financial crisis, but most likely it will not come to this. That's it. I'd like to ask the Minister of Energy to continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21293	Thank you. The word is Mr. Skundric. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21294	Dear Mr. Maras, I knew there'd be a question on your part about the vault I was covering for or towards me personally, and I knew that the nature of such a question would be like this. I never said that the state no longer has an impact on the price formation of derivatives, but I said that conditions are being obtained to start a direct conversation between NIS and service processors on the price of processing, if we want to engage in an adequate way over a year and a half in the free market with oil derivatives. As for this piece that the prime minister was talking about, we, according to the law, have until September to carry out another audit of the final account and to determine the true factual state. We'd like that result to be as good as it gets, but it's gonna be the way it is. Accordingly, this government and this ministry will act according to their legal capabilities and competences. I want to say next. In these conditions, the financial and economic crisis has proved that this was a good job that the government realised on the basis of a previously established and signed interstate contract, which this assembly ratified. The government has done nothing but implement the decisions of MPs in the Serbian Parliament. The interstate agreement has become a legal obligation under which the Ministry of Mining and Energy is also acting. Personally, I believe it is one of the most strategic development projects in this period, that solutions have definitely been made regarding the realisation of the master gas pipeline that puts Serbia in a position not only of a regional participant in energy networking and integration, but also of a global nature, which not only helps Serbia achieve the necessary energy efficiency, but puts Serbia in a position of a significant country, which allows the EU part to provide better supply and security of gas supply, one of the most significant energy sources from the point of view of all requirements, including environmental ones, and it is not true that the highest price of gas in Serbia is due to the signed gas-oil arrangement. That price has nothing to do with the signed gas-naphtha arrangement. We have current real investment procedures in the part of the projects defined by an interstate contract, which is very important at this moment, when everywhere, including with us, the effects of the financial and global economic crisis are present. Now we have a start-up investment cycle at NIS and we have guarantees that this deal, according to the contract, will be realised in time. As it is very important to know that from the planned minimum, 31 billion cubic metres of natural gas, which was meant to go through this future South Stream, it is planned to be 63, or 64 billion cubic metres of gas, which means that more than 20 billion of normal cubic metres of natural gas will pass through Serbia, which will have significant financial and developmental effects with the realization of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21295	Thank you. Mr. Marash, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21296	It would be nice, President, to take care of the weather and when ministers speak, not just MPs. (President: I'm sorry, just so you know, there are no restrictions on ministers, business. ) Mr Cvetkovic, you said - this is not a political issue and it is not the time to bid on whether NIS, which was owned by the Republic of Serbia by 31 December 2008, was a business with loss or a profit. Mr. Cvetkovic, your resolute minister, Mr. Skundric, was the president of the NIS Assembly. As chairman of the board of directors, you had an DS lady. This board of directors and this assembly, under one, handed over and nominated the final account where the profits were made, that assembly or the board of directors decided to schedule the outstanding profits from the previous years, so we had a new owner (beyond you sitting Minister of Finance, we discussed it in that second building of the Assembly), the new owner asked for an additional deadline to correct the final account. What is what interests the citizens of Serbia and what we want the answer to from here. No one bids here, we are interested in knowing whether the NIS, which was placed 20th in Europe for profit in October 2008, was a loss business. Who made that loss? Who's responsible for this loss? Will anyone be held accountable? I remind you once again, in 31.12.2008 there was a moment when the Republic of Serbia owned the NIS. Someone's damaged the budget, and it's thick. Is someone gonna answer? We're not bidding here, as you said, but we want to know if you have any insight into what's going on in NIS, or whether there's been any loss or if the NIS has been dealing with profits. I quote Kiril Kravchenka, Director General of NIS: "According to the preliminary assessment of the independent auditor of KPMG, NIS ended in 2008 with a loss of 3,862 billion dinars." Mr. Cvetkovic, the final account was handed first in which the winnings were shown. In the same interview, the same director says, "NIS today is a Serbia market monopoly whose fuel quality lags behind European standards." That's what we're talking about. We have the worst fuel, the most expensive, and we don't know if the NIS, which is an absolute monopoliest and in October 2008, is located in 20th place by success, by the profit it has earned, business with loss or profit. You, as prime minister, must know that, because apparently, with the consent of the Ministry of Finance and your final account, he went to work. Who made the passes? It's not small money. What about unscheduled profits? Mr. Skundric, you're saying that because of the oil-gas deal, the price of gas is not as high as it is. That's what we told you last year all the time, that maybe it was the middleman. What did the Bulgarian president say, and that's why Putin didn't go to Sofia? He said there's no South Stream until you shut down the middleman. That's how you defend the interests of the state. Whether the route will go through Nis and Zajcar, we can't influence it, but we can agree. And of course Serbia will benefit from the South Stream, and we welcome that, and we are the same for South Stream, we say that all the time, but we were against it and we stayed against this kind of sale of NIS and this situation where both NIS and the price of fuel and everything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21297	Mr. Cvetkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21298	I thank you for further questions. I'd just like to say that you're obviously very misinformed about some things, and in fact it would be logical to expect these things to be more or less familiar. The general rule is for the final bill to be handed over for the previous year on February 28th of the current year. Why is he turning himself in on February 28th, not January 1st? Because it takes a month, so often more days for the final bill to be made. It wasn't possible, or theoretically, to make an account on December 31st and all the stories about how NIS was winning, so someone handed over the plus bill, and then the minus bill came up -- they're incorrect. It is true that the evaluations were made, very rough, and that in those rough estimates there was a conclusion that NIS would be positive. But that's very far from where you do the evaluations. The question is, by whom they were committed, probably internal people there from finance. It's absolutely incorrect that a final account was made, that this final account was handed over with a plus, that it was then withdrawn, so it appeared with a minus. So this is about the estimates. The moment a foreign strategic partner entered the company, which was on January 1st, he had in mind the need and obligation, so he hired, as you said, an audit firm (I won't mention it) that dealt with it. That this is true also confirms the fact that the Assembly, a management body reflecting the old owner, so the state, decided in December on the distribution of future profits that have not been determined. If it had been established, it would have said how large it was and how it would be distributed. So it's theoretically impossible to make a final bill for a year that's under way. It's about the final account issue. Of course, the fact is one thing, I repeat, I really don't think the question of the final bill is for bid and that it should be determined by an independent auditor and then we'll accept it as it is. Since it has been three minutes, I will interrupt here, with a note that I am surprised that those who are asked questions and from whom MPs want to hear the answers limit the time and opportunity to answer you, but I will still stick to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21299	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. (Free Marash, from the city: Excuse me, Slavice...) ) Before I give you my word, Mrs Tabakovic, just to say that the following members of the government have informed me that due to the earlier commitments they have been prevented from participating in today's work: Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Rasim Ljajic, Dragan Sutanovac and Verica Kalanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21300	I want to ask the Prime Minister, since...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21301	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21302	Yes, of course I have a word. Mr. Cvetkovic, we won't be lazy, so we'll take a stenogram from the day she was Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic in that other building. She's sitting behind you, so I'd ask her to take her word for it, so she can confirm it. I've been asked three times whether it's true that the final bill has been handed over so that the new owner's insistence is required to complete it. I insisted on the answer and the finance minister, after the third time, told the pay phone – why do you ask the question you know the answer to? Yes, it is true, the new owner has requested a 15-day deadline to complete the final bill. I respect your age, but I don't respect the way you acted when you started talking to me. Of course I know the final bill doesn't give up on January 1st. No one said that. I was only talking about the moment until Serbia was an absolute owner, or 100% owner of the NIS. Mr. Cvetkovic, I know these are awkward questions. Just like it was an awkward question the other day to Mr. Dragin. You signed that regulation. How can you bring in a regulation within three months that promises farmers one thing, and in three months, it promises them something completely different, or derogates what you brought in three months ago, and it also concerns fuel? I have to remind you that in February you passed a regulation that made you pledge to pay agricultural producers 12,000 dinars per hectare for fuel, seed, fertilizer. Then you bring the regulation on May 14th, and you don't even have the guts to publish that regulation on the Ministry of Agriculture site, in which you say you'll pay it off to everyone except the farmers' pensioners. You'll only pay them 30%. I must have asked Minister Dragin ten times how this is possible and what to do with these people, and I was giving examples of people who handed over to the Treasury, who have 30 acres of land, 41 years old, pensioners, spent nearly 400,000 dinars, asking for a refund of what you promised. What do they do? I kept getting answers that were just like this one of your experienced answers that don't say anything, that don't answer the question directly. No problem, you don't have to answer, but please ask Mrs Diana Dragutinović, sitting behind you, if we had this conversation in the Serbian Parliament, and a stenogram exists. The MPs were in the O.R. No problem, let NIS deal with the loss, but I'm asking you why. Who was responsible, who was president of the Assembly, who was chairman of the Management Board, who was director of the NIS, who allowed NIS to be sponsored and advertised in the way he did in recent months? Is that one of the reasons why NIS was dealing with losses, which is why it has the worst fuel in Europe and the most expensive? I sincerely hope that the new owner will introduce order, primarily because of the citizens of Serbia, so that we have more quality fuel, and I hope that the price will be more acceptable someday. But don't humiliate the messengers. Let's tell the truth. Your minister admits that, all the media have written about handing over one final bill, so he's withdrawn at the request of a new owner to work himself out. Read the magazine "Economist", you will read it from time to time, you will easily find it in presclipping. And another question, though I will find it difficult to get an answer – when the law on the transfer of powers to Vojvodina, which Minister Dragutinovic promised to meet at the June 1st assembly meeting, will be on the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21303	Thank you. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21304	The post office, Madam President, has informed us of Mr Dinkic's absence, so I must ask the prime minister what many of us are interested in – who is now making decisions, considering the demands of shareholders and carrying out controls at the Agency for Privatisation, when the director of the agency Vesna Djindjic resigned, and the largest number of other responsible persons and controllers working in the Agency took the days off and went on vacations? On the other hand, we get information that the law has broken down in that agency and I ask – is it possible that in such an agency, which decides on the fates of many people, no one cares about hundreds of procedures that fill newspaper columns and leave people on the street? As far as today, it's completely illegal to sell a building called "Comgrapa". Some privatisation processes have been completed so that the state will no longer be able to compensate for its inaction. Some present themselves as successful, and they are abuses in the privatisation process. If I can quote something that will reflect all the cases brought up by my colleagues in this assembly and damaged minority shareholders, this could come down to the following – all of what is happening to us is with the open support and protection of the state authorities and the privatisation agency, as fortresses of crime, where documentation is hidden, falsely depicting and concealing property in the privatisation prospectuses, issuing false confirmations of compliance with the obligations of the customers and with the complete blocking of the system institutions, all in the function of the robbery, destruction of the company, the sale of property, the distribution of workers, and, as I stress, according to the usual form. Is it true that one of the former ministers has said somewhere -- that we would end this process, we need assessors, audits and banks to lend us loans? When someone asked how we were going to do it, they said it's us, it's us, it's us, the banks are ours. That's the usual form. For years, many criminal charges have been in the MUP and the D.A.'s office. A lot of capital has been raised from Serbia, the Labour Act is not applicable (President: Time. ) and the Criminal Code does not apply to abuses in privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21305	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21306	I'd give an answer very briefly. You're describing the state of the Agency as bad. I don't have that information. Anyway, I have information that the director has resigned, but there's a deputy there. I don't know if she left or if she's still there. In any case, be assured that the institution exists as such and that there are procedures for such situations. When someone resigns or leaves, it's known how it goes and everything will function normally.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21307	Thank you. Mrs. Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21308	If things don't work the way you expect, I'll give you a concrete example. Is it possible that this agency that is actually working does not apply the contractual and legal obligation it has, which it has signed and accepted, to terminate the contract with a social capital buyer, for example. the company BD Agro of Dobanovac? After the final presentation, I'll give you both the data and the case. It is a company that has paid two annual payments for the purchase price, as BD Agro, instead of the buyer Đura Obradovic himself. I don't care about Djura Obradovic at all, it's just a phenomenon. When a buyer, and this is just one of many, an unauthorized mortgage is borrowing the property of a privatization entity in favour of other companies that are privatized, e.g. firm'sInex" - Nova Varoš, and these mortgages were not taken down after two of the warnings the Agency gave, not even after 30 days of additional deadlines, means, the Agency knows that the contract is broken, notices, that the additional deadline, but does not break the contract. What does the Agency do when a privatisation entity takes a loan of over 30m euros (I'm not talking about 30,000 dinars, gentlemen, but about 30m euros) and these funds, unwittingly and unintentional, e.g. To buy helicopters and jeeps, and in fact to grow cattle and produce milk, alienates the large assets of a privatization entity, and there are no documents where he ended up selling money? If so, because of this today, I am asking and mentioning a specific case, unpunished to commit crime, then it is no wonder that this and many similar customers privatised the following companies: "Ineks" Nova Varoš, "Pik Pester", "Red Signal" Belgrade, "Renovate" Belgrade, "Uvac Gazela" Jasenovo, "Technika Bureautronic" Belgrade, "Beotrans", perhaps another. Since this owner addressed me as a letter to the MP group that I belong to and invited to see what kind of company it is, here, I answer. No one, not even minority shareholders slow down their jobs on the company's promotion and that 1,300 cattle throats were obtained, but not 2,500 as they were represented and that it was an obligation. The investment plan adopted, and the evidence that I'm about to hand over, shows that a number of illegal procedures have been made in the execution of the contract. These violations of the contract were found by the Agency itself, however. I have no intention of changing my position on BD Agro, or on bad privatisations, like some others that Mr. Djura drives by helicopter, but only if he delivers evidence (as minority shareholders did, because only by language of proof we speak) that all of this is not true. I would also like to remind the owner that, though to the public, the means of information are not, but minority shareholders, who are damaged, are also known – that at the time of the privatisation of BD Agro, there is no right to use 4,000 hectares of state land that have been lost; that the BD Agro had a pig and hens farm after the privatisation; that the gentleman boasted that the leukous cows that died had replaced the new cows, and those cows had not died, but were sold, and at the price of 900 euros per piece, and during the sale, it was not transparent and public; that the gentleman had shown as an investment and purchase of 23,000 pieces of hens, and that none had entered BD Agro, which is also the evidence. SNS deputies are looking for these answers. (President: Time. I'm gonna hang up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21309	Thank you. Do any of the members of the government have any comments? No, I don't. ) National MP Mr Milan Lapčević has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21310	Dear Madam President, Your Honor, Mr. Cvetkovic, Mr. Minister, I will ask three questions. The first question will be asked by the Minister of Education. In November 2007, the Council and the University of Nis Senate decided to establish a agricultural college in Nis. After that, an elaborate has been carried out, the temporary authorities of the administration and all necessary documentation with a request for consent submitted to the Ministry of Education have been designated. In May 2008, the same procedure was also done for the Faculty of worship in Nis. Therefore, the request for consent was forwarded to the Ministry of Education with all necessary documentation. Some time ago, about a month ago, at the request of the Nis authorities to get an answer to the question of what happened to granting consent, she leaked information that the documentation had been lost in the Ministry of Education, that she had lost somewhere. I'm asking you how it's possible, if this really happened, and what's going to happen to that request to open those two colleges, since it's very important institutions that can be important for the development of that, you'll all agree on an undeveloped area. The second question will be addressed to Mr. Mrkonjic. When you formed the government, you announced a dozen infrastructure projects, the construction of Corridor 10, which will employ a large number of people, who will be the driver of our economy, but also what will be the element for Serbia to overcome the crisis. I'm asking you what's going on with that. You broke the concession shortly after the government was formed, saying the highway from Horgos to Požega would be built by the means this state has. However, the works were also open some month ago, with great pomp and the presence of top state officials, but of course, the next day, as usual and in earlier times, when you were the minister and the authority to build, these trucks, of course, were already leaving the next day and all the machines were off-site, so that nothing was happening there. Nevertheless, you announced that both arms of Corridor 10 would be built to the Bulgarian and Macedonian borders by 2011. To this day, no work is done there. I'm asking you when you'll be able to do that, since the papers haven't even started yet, and as far as I know, the project documentation isn't completely complete. Through this, you announced that the state will finance two major projects for the city of Belgrade -- a bridge from Zemun to Borca and a metro in Belgrade. How will you finance these projects (President: Time, Mr Lapčević. Bring the end. I end up, and on what basis are projects of national importance, and they're not, say, moving the railroad to Nis, where 150 people have died in the last 40 years, or building a light system at the airport in Nis?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21311	Thank you. Mr. Obradovic wants a word. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21312	Thank you. Thank you and fellow MPs for asking this question because, given the circumstances, I was not in a position to be Minister of Education, at least publicly, deny something that was then published and not true. At a press conference held in Nis by a number of people from the University, information was released that the Ministry of Education had lost documentation relating to the establishment of a agricultural and seminary college in Nis, which is not true. Unfortunately, neither were the denials of the claim made. I talked to my colleagues from Nis then and asked them where they got that information. I'm saying this to make sure you're aware of all the things related to that request and its fate. It was said that they heard it indirectly, not from the people of the Ministry of Education. That information's not true. The answer to your question that I can give you at this point is – there are technical and essential problems. The technical problems were that there were different decisions of the University on the same date in the documentation submitted from Nis. It's different content, so we've been looking for some additional clarification, I've talked to the Rector of the University of Nis several times. Secondly, the government has a need, and in the ministry they need to appreciate and justify the reasons for establishing certain higher education institutions, especially when the state should appear as the founder. The original request was made with the view that there is a need and that it does not increase neither the expenditure nor the obligation of the state, which is not true. In both cases, the state shall make certain commitments by making a decision. In order to establish any college today, it is necessary to do an elaborate, which includes the adoption of a positive opinion, which includes appropriate standards related to programmes, staff and space. And of course, when the state makes a decision on the establishment of one of its colleges, it involves certain financial obligations, for which at this point there are insufficient reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21313	Mr. Milutin Mrkonjic. You must re-apply, Mr. Grouchy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21314	And I thank Mr. Lapčević for this question. I've never been a minister, just to remind him. Actually, I was, I forgot. I was elected in 1992, so I didn't accept, overnight I thanked, and in 1986, in that old Yugoslavia. I'm a minister now. I always tell the media (and today there were some journalists at my place, so I didn't want to talk to them) that we have to talk about Corridor 10 all the time, so people realize that Corridor 10 really represents our greatest development opportunity, and that we do it. So, once again, and I'm glad they asked that question, to explain here in three minutes, to say what we're doing. This year we'll make our own funds 40 kilometers of highways. Since October last year, there are 20 kilometers from Presevo to Levosoja (in the evening and tomorrow morning I'll be there at the construction site, you can come with me, see what's going on) and we'll finish it on July 7th. The stock we started will end on November 29th. I love those round dates. I'm sorry (maybe tomorrow or the day after tomorrow we go together to Novi Sad), it's done. I don't know what you're up to, but if you're an engineer, you should know that the media isn't relevant after all. It's done with full intensity (goes Marash out, he knows, from Novi Sad he's) 20 kilometers of highway from his own means, and we'll end it this year. As for Nis, Nis is on Corridor 10, primarily Railway Corridor 10. That's a nice thing to say, it's a nickel knot, the biggest and perhaps the weakest point on Corridor 10. It is now being projected and we are likely to complete the project this year and enter the realisation of the knot next year. The highway around Nis is defined, so there's no problem. But East-Dimitrovgrad, as far as the railway highway is concerned, today is our weakest spot, next to the train knot. This year, June 5th, we're going to enter the beginning of the construction of the modernization of that section of railroad because, as you know, we don't even have electricity. The loan is secured, the dilemma is gone, says a colleague from the SRS. In addition, the highway to the East ends projecting major projects and a share of 8.5km from the Bulgarian border to Dimitrovgrad, with two large tunnels. We haven't entered into the realization of this project because we haven't yet secured funds from international loans, but we have announced money from the World Bank loan, $388 million for that part of the highway, between the average, the Red River, Nis and Dimitrovgrad. We'll move the tape (and we've talked about it) around Pirot and move it to the hill variant (that I'm not designing here with you now, not to strangle you), and we'll finish this job this year, and continue to realize that part of the Corridor next year. In the south, we plan this year from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank, which provided 600m euros, to do a share between Grdelica, behind Leskovec, to Vranja, and to Levoso. The Levosoje-Vranje stock is projected and completed in the next 15 days and, when the money comes, we will enter into the realization of that southern part of the Corridor. As for the tours around Belgrade, these are the famous topics and expropriations, etc., which I have talked a lot about asking for your support, asking for support from MPs, the northern part, from Dobanovac to Batajnica - 115m euros, a loan secured. The expropriation isn't over. Now we're finding the means to do it. So far, we've found a portion of the funds, about a billion and a half to two. We need some more money. I guess we'll end the expropriation this year and start building that section of the bypass. Please, since I took the word, let me say, I still have half a minute, that last week we adopted the Road Directorate's program. A lot of MPs are interested in realising this program. Somewhere around 350m euros, which we will invest in maintaining the highways and regional roads, starts immediately, and that is why I want MPs to calm down. But I ask the MPs to help us to adopt a two-guarantee law next week, of 100m and 75m euros, which will pay back some of the debts to the passengers. Guarantee laws are clear, there are no dilemmas, unless there is political bickering, but since I talked to most MPs, especially from the opposition, I expect your support to adopt these two guarantees from Monday and to enter into Serbia's economy 200 million, so that they can live, so that the tolls can work normally. Please, colleague Lapčević, if you are somewhere down south tomorrow, you will be my guest from Nis to Preshev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21315	I thank Minister Mrkonjic. Mr. Lapcevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21316	Thank you, Mr. Minister, but it doesn't mean that you're loud, that what you're saying has more importance. I know very well how you opened the papers on the removal of that railway corridor and in 1996, very well. I also know when you promoted the construction of a fast track in 1992, which was completed in 1996, and in 2009, it was already due to be reconstructed. I know your endeavors very well, and what I said about starting to build a highway in Vojvodina, that's what B92 told you and recorded. I didn't make it up, Mr. Minister. As for the second question, I asked you why the metro in Belgrade and the bridge from Borca to Zemun are a national project, and the project to move the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway from the city's core is not a national project, because 150 people have died in the last 40 years. Mr. Obradovic, I asked you if and when colleges will get the consent to start work, because you made a public promise when you were in Nis. Does this mean that when you're a guest in Nis and there you need to take pictures in front of the cameras, you promise it publicly to pick up some points, and when it comes to realisation, then there's nothing? What does that mean? For everything that happens in Belgrade or in this part of Serbia can have funds and there can be justifications, but if there is something that needs to be done for southern Serbia, then we always have an excuse for the crisis, we always have an excuse not enough funds, we always have an excuse that the procedure is at stake. That's how it happened now with the pipeline route. It was our priority, but you know, foreign partners disagreed. On the first day there was a statement – we couldn't affect the pipeline route. On the second day, the Bulgarians asked us to do so. On the third day it was said – Gazprom decided where the route would be. And on the fourth day, your Mr. Prime Minister, the director of Serbia, said that the Austrians and Hungarians were asking for the route to pass where it was born. No one's ever said one word before about the pipeline route through Zajech. Overnight, the director of Serbiaagas comes out and says, "Here, it'll be there now." And today we hear from the Energy Minister that in fact, the route has not been set up and will be set up for a study to be done, and it is said that Serbia has no influence. Well, that's not true. Serbia has influence just by making the study and where Serbia will say it is Serbia's public interest, there will be a pipeline trail. But it is, apparently, about some higher interests or some personal interests, perhaps political or other nature. Please, Mr. Cvetkovic, answer my question whether and when the government discussed this issue and whether it decided to accept this route which I hear is not safe either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21317	Mr. Zarko Obradovic, first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21318	Thanks for the opportunity to tell you again, but to be honest, I didn't understand what kind of connections gas and gas pipeline have to do with your question about opening new colleges in the city of Nis. I didn't understand, but you probably did, as soon as you asked. I've given my answer, but maybe there's no good will for you to accept it. I mean, I've made myself very clear. The data I got from my colleagues didn't match the truth. They existed under the same number, same label, different decisions of the university on the establishment of a university. I told you how things are, in order for the university to be founded, what is needed – and programs and space and (President: Staff. ) the scientific competence of teachers. It's interesting that you're asking this question to me, and you could have asked it to your colleague who ran this resort before me. And then there was a request to open these colleges, so if there wasn't a reason for such a thing then, you should at least trust me when I tell you that there are reasons that aren't enough to open a college. Because the opening of any college also involves certain material separations, both for the functioning of colleges and for employees. I don't know if you know it, but if you don't, I'll tell you – the opening of any higher education institution means meeting the law of the intended conditions. Standards include 70% of people in a steady working relationship, according to the Law on Higher Education, the scientific competence of people who need to work in that higher school institution, a certain space, two meters square feet per student's head in one shift, three programs that are complementary to other programs in the world. Things aren't simple at all, the guy whether or not you want to start a college. Because when we were told there was no need for any separation, it was not true. There is a need, and what a need for material separations. If someone is going to make a point through a request to open higher education institutions, that's another thing, I'm not going to get into it. I'm telling you quite honestly what we in the Ministry and myself as ministers have motivated about this request to open two colleges. I have to tell you that compared to the resources we have, and practically, when we exempt the cost of employee earnings and social contributions, we are left with 3.31% in the budget. We were here on budget rebalance and we were talking about the structure of those costs. In these 3,31% you have separations for both pre-school and secondary education, and for student homes, and for different types of assistance, and for professional training and equipment, not to mention investments that are necessary and necessary. I have to tell you that, in fact, that's the way it is. It is not true that the issue of seizing is a matter of wanting to get some political points and the like. When I was in Nis, I was talking to the President of the Nish City Assembly and other people from the city government, and I said that despite this difficult economic situation, we would start building a new dormitory. And we will, because there is a need for that, because the capacities of student homes and student institutions in Nis are less than there are people's interests. The state has already allocated 30m euros to all student homes in Serbia, but we have increased the number of users, which says, unfortunately, the economic situation is such, as far as students are concerned, that there is an interest in home. And we'll do it. For other things, I'd like to ask you to have an understanding. I tell you once again, without intending to transfer in any way, but this problem does not exist from this government and from this minister, there is from the previous government and the previous minister, when economic conditions were more favourable and when, I mention, not by chance, as the primary reason, other conditions that were not met at that time and not later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21319	Mr. Mrkonjic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21320	I don't want to whisper. I'm used to making a little noise at construction sites, you know. But since I've been working for 40 years on education and ignorance and those who know, so I'm fighting for these development projects, if you, as an MP, don't know what Corridor 10 means for rail traffic, for rails and for the road, I'm going to do it again. And I remind you, without any desire to insult the people and parties that are now in the government, in 2006, you had two billion euros in your government, so you didn't do anything. It's entered the country 55 billion euros since October 5th, so you haven't done anything. The Prime Minister was a man from Nis, so you didn't do anything. Now, I've done something and I'll do it, Comrade Lapchevich. Don't, man will learn. [[Applause]] So, Corridor 10 for Railways, Mr. Lapčević (a little louder I speak, to remember) is a railway through Serbia, from Sudotica to Nis, to Dimitrovgrad and down south. That's Corridor 10. As part of the corridor, there is also a node, with 400m euros planned to be built over the next four years. And at least 50 times we talked about it. That's Corridor 10. You're trying to get me into Belgrade, and that's where you've been wronged a little bit. I'm a born Belgrade citizen, but I've spent my whole life in the field, where you've never been. And in your Nis. See how many objects were done there in our time. And what did you do from October 5th to today? Nothing. Therefore, do not be convinced. With me tomorrow in the jeep, so nice to get to Preshev, so nice to New Sad. Trust no one, no television, no newspapers. Go around the field. The sense of watching exists, it's very important. In addition to hearing, look here, colleague Lapčević. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21321	Mr. Cvetkovic. Here you go, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21322	I'd like to say two things. First, this part of the infrastructure, which was not mentioned by Minister Mrkonjic, is the issue of Belgrade, specifically the Borca-Zemun bridge and the subway. Our top priority (President: Gentlemen, I pray for silence. It certainly is Corridor 10. To fund Corridor 10, as a priority, we provide funds from several sources. The main source is, above all, our budget funds, and then the funds come from international financial institutions. These two projects that you mentioned are not an alternative for those funds that we have to reroute to them, but are projects for which we withdraw project loans that can only be used for these purposes. So they'd be plus what goes on in Corridor 10. You can't resuscitate that bridge, that's what negotiations are under way, so let's say I don't want a metro in Belgrade, instead I want a Nis. They are simply projects related to contractors, for the performance of works and they carry each of their funding. We can say this here -- we're not going to do them at all, so we're only doing Corridor 10, or we're going to say, we're going to do both. I think anyone in their right mind would say, "We'll do both." So there's no competition, it's not mutually exclusive projects. As for the issue of the pipeline route, since the energy minister is not here, I want to give a direct answer to the question whether the government has been considering the route and whether it has made any decisions in this regard. The answer is no. Since this government was formed, the route as such has not been considered in the Government, nor have any decisions been made on this matter. Besides, I have to tell you, I would never have thought of an idea that someone could make a political decision, so let it be the Russian, to influence the track. The track is a purely commercial thing and it will really define itself through a feasibility study, and we, or anyone, where that pipeline passes, for internal things, and yet starting from commercial interest, will go towards the highest concentration of consumers to release our arms that will go in that direction. I would certainly find it very strange that some pipeline that costs billions of euros and don't just look at it as a piece that goes through our country, you have it previously throughout Bulgaria, so a leg down for Greece, then across the Black Sea, etc. (President: Time. ) So he will be safe, and any normal would determine him through a physibilitized study, which in choice of variants would take the most favourable one.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21323	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, strictly speaking, we should be done. I'm going to ask for more of your brief address and just Mr. Krstin's question, and the government's answer is to be written. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21324	Thank you, Mr. Cvetkovic, for the answers given regarding the pipeline. I believe you're communicating with the Minister of Energy and with your director of Serbiaagas, so tell them not to make contradictory statements. As for Mr. Mrkonjic - yes, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, in 2006, two billion were left in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, to your current prime minister, so you ask him what happened to that money, don't ask us. And I also know when you were working Corridor 10 and the fast track from 1992 to 1996, it was finished according to your stories. The fact that your performance and your response are so toned and in such a way brought out here is the matter of your education. I won't affect that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21325	Mr. Christin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21326	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and members of the government, I thought I'd speak to Mr. Secretary of State and Local Self-Government Milan Markovic, and I can see he's not here. I am speaking to Mr. Prime Minister Cvetkovic and Minister Mrs. Malovic. In fact, on 24 May (I will use three minutes and thank you) the elections for the MZ Council in the municipality of Novi Becej, a populated town of Novo Milosevo. At 20.00 hours, the polling post closes, the voter's vote counts, the minutes are being made, those who have the most votes are being given to the local community, the election commission. There were eight polling stations, 17 candidates for members of the Council. There is a problem when ballots and the original minutes are taken to the president of the Electoral Commission, Novo Milosevic Marice Bešlin. The count lasts until 3:15 a.m. Monday morning on May 25th, interrupts and is no longer numbered. The record is placed in a visible place, on the advertising board, but besides the stamp there is no signature of President of the Election Commission Marica Beslin, who casts out polling stations 24 and 19 without any knowledge. Why? Because it's the SRS who gets most votes and can form the Council of the Meat Community. In polling place 24 is disputed Pajic Duško because he passed, and in polling place 19 is Lalić Vlasimir, who is the only candidate of the SPS who has been in power with us for the Council of the Meat Community. I just can't believe that from Monday at 3:15 a.m., the commission doesn't meet, the count doesn't end, and there's a record where there's no results from polling stations 24 and 19. The question is – is it possible that someone can illegally end the will of citizens (President: Time). ) in the selection of members of the Council of the Novo Milosevo Meat Community (President: Please finish. ..and violate the Law of Local Self-Government, and who will answer legally for this? Dissatisfaction is huge in the populated town of Novo Miloshevo...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21327	Thank you, Mr. Christin. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, the esteemed ministers, I conclude, have passed a full three hours of questions and answers. Thank you for your work. Mr. Krstin, you'll be right to have an answer in writing, to comment on it at the session of the last Thursday of the month. Thank you, Mr. President, for your time. Thank you, dear ministers. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue our work, I hope not deep into the night. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by Mrs. Verica Radeta. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21328	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you have violated Article 27, and in particular Article 113. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This Rules of Procedure applies to all participants in the work of the National Assembly, including ministers and Prime Ministers. You let Mr. Cvetkovic speak three minutes after 19.00. I don't mind. But if the Minister and Government can exceed this deadline by 19.00 hours, which is strictly according to the Rules of Procedure, then you have no reason not to give it to the others on the list to participate in the work. Especially not to let Mr. Kristin at least use two times five minutes and those three minutes, as everyone used. And especially given the fact that you gave the first speaker a word without having a list, that you changed the list twice in the meantime, that the last change was half an hour before this part of the session was completed, and if someone were to sign in, you'd have to put it in at the end, so if it was a turn, it would come in. So, the harshest thing you've ever done is break the Rules of Procedure. Besides, this is also very, very incorrect. Such a relationship with SRS MPs, such an obvious animosity, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, should serve you honorably.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21329	Mrs. Verice Radeta, at 7:06 p.m., three full hours of work were completed. If I had interrupted the session then, Mr. Kristin wouldn't have gotten the word. I had the impression that the largest number of SRS MPs with great sympathy looked at my decision to give him my word and that's what their faces said. You'd better get your attitudes straight. There are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. We're continuing our work. If you are not satisfied with this answer, would you like to take MPs' vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Mrs. Verica Radeta is re-advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21330	This time I advertise Article 104, because, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, do not mind the dignity of the National Assembly. You can't be so ironic and hypocritical as to comment on the sympathy or unsympathies and expressions of the faces of the Members of the people. Of course I didn't mind Mr. Christin saying, on the contrary, I resented your letting the minister speak after 19.00 hours. Because it's not about whether we spent three hours, it's about this session taking place on the last Thursday of the month from 4:00 to 19.00. The minister spoke after 19.00 hours and the team had no basis for not allowing Mr. Krstin to use the time normally used by MPs who spoke at such sessions. I repeat, apart from breaking the Rules of Procedure, you're acting extremely incorrectly. I don't know if you're also sorry that in New Milosevic, the SRS was the strongest in these local community elections, so you don't want to talk about it. For some I know it is, for those who haven't crossed the census. I didn't think you were on their side, although you've shown too much sympathy today, which is not in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21331	Mrs. Radeta, you use a term of sympathy, and you resent me when I use the same term. So we use very similar terminology. That's the first one. Second, there is no, of course, damage to the Rules of Procedure. I could say a measure, since you're talking about the same content for the second time in five minutes. I'm not going to do that, but I'm warning you I'll give you a measure if you repeat this manner of communication and abuse of the Rules of Procedure's injury. Thank you. Under the name of the amendment law, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted to the Committee on Justice and Administration. The MPs of the law have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On the basis of Article 1 of the amendment, paragraph 5, Article 142 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted to the Committee on Justice and Administration. The MPs of the law have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Martinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, don't go over these amendments so quickly. When little is entered into the essence of the amendments submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, then you can see what confusion is in the ruling coalition. I have, in front of me, the Justice and Administration Committee material since 26 May 2009. This was received at the National Assembly office on May 26, 2009 at 3:15 p.m. Watch what is said in this material, among other things: Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Committee for Justice and Administration, submits - and then listen to the name of the bill in the opinion of the Committee on Justice and Administration - on the draft law prohibiting neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and prohibiting the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and features. And the bill is not called that, but is called the bill on banning manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and banning the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and markings. What's amazing is the next thing. This material of the Justice and Administration Committee was received at the office of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 26 May 2009. At the same time, it was received at the National Assembly's office, so literally at the same time, at 3:15 p.m., a letter from a group of MPs that the authorised representative for this agenda point was Radovan Radovanovic, a member of the ZES parliamentary group. What's most ridiculous is that in this letter of the People's MPs, LSV calls this bill a different name. Proposal for a law prohibiting manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and prohibiting the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and markings. So, literally the same hour and the same minute, the National Assembly's office takes two different acts in which the bill is otherwise called. Now one elemental question is asked here – how can two acts literally arrive at the office at the same time (if, of course, exactly what it says on the reception stamp), at 3:15 p.m.? Now there's a logical question here -- what bill are we talking about? Is it about that bill of law which was studied by the Committee on Justice and Administration or the bill submitted by the MPs: Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Bojan Kostreš? So the termological confusion over the name of the bill is complete. Imagine what confusion awaits us when we enter the normative part of the bill, when we start reading Article 1, Article 2, Article 3, etc. Then the neonacism, the Nazism, the fascism, the national socialism, the nationalism, the neonationalism, so who knows what not. So, total confusion, total confusion. You don't even know the name of the bill we're talking about. I sent that application to Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. She's out. Here, please, Mr. Novakovic, don't rush when you read the amendments. I understand that the MPs are tired, I understand that it's been 19.00 hours, I understand that the concentration has fallen, but read slowly, calmly, amendment by amendment, and you will see what confusion awaits us when it comes to this bill and how much indifference is contained in these materials that we are forced to discuss today only because a political deal has been reached between Boris Tadic and Nenad Chanka. Boris Tadic said -- he can't have the Duke's statutes, but then he let -- can Cankov's bill, by emergency procedure in the assembly procedure. We don't know exactly what the bill is called. Bosko Ristic baptises him in his own way, Nenad Canak in his own way, but in any case, we are forced to discuss this confusion today only because of the fact that an extremely incorrect political agreement has been reached between DS and LSV.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21333	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr. Martinovic, is this speed all right with you? The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21334	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've also reported on the previous amendment, but you, Mr. Novakovic, can't move that political gearbox of yours to some lower level of transmission. I have to find out something that I also found in the principle debate, which is that whoever is the idea creator of this bill, Mr Nenad Canak, is not present tonight at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I get the impression again that he's kind of sacrificing his party colleagues to be his spokesmen and then they're sweating here, they're suffering criticism and defending something that's objectively unprotective. If you ask DS MPs here by the towers of the National Assembly what they think of this bill, they'll tell you all the worst. Ask any lawyer from the DS, and you'll hear what his opinion is. Of course, they are now wisely silent. Mr. Nenad Canak has come to the sense that he may not be in the National Assembly again. Now his party friends will try to say something about these amendments and the bill's proposal, but in any case, it's extremely unserious what's going on right now. We have been suffering for months a media ring against everything that is Serbian, which is national, which is traditional, which is Orthodox. In Serbia, fascists, neo-fascists, Nazis, national socialists, nationalists, neo-nationalists etc. are located. An open-label media campaign against the Serbian Orthodox Church is under way, an open campaign is under way against certain patriotic NGOs, an open media campaign against the SRS. Mr Nenad Canak even suggested that the ban and use of symbols that remind the citizens of Serbia, who are not convicted but accused only of the UN tribunal, which is a violation of all the elementary procedural principles in every civilized country of the world and, behold, Mr Chanka is not again in the National Assembly tonight. I would really like to finally hear the opinion of LSV, what their views are about this bill, which I repeat, we do not know exactly what it is called, because one text stands in the materials that come to us from a group of MPs as legislators, another name of the law appears in materials, or acts of the Justice and Administration Committee. I think it is high time to hear the argument of the parliamentary majority and of the amendments, but also of the bill itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21335	Thank you. The word has been authorised by the proposing representative, the ZES parliamentary group, Mr Radovan Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21336	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say that Mr Martinovic's amendment to Article 1 of this bill reads - in Article 1 they "can hurt" are replaced by the words "insult and". We have taken the most seriously into consideration and this amendment, as well as all 23 amendments submitted by colleagues from the SRS, and the one who has carefully looked at the answers sees that around 90% of these amendments they have submitted will be incorporated, i.e. it has already been incorporated into the current draft of this law. We did not accept this amendment because, speaking with other parliamentary groups and with the Justice Committee, we came to the conclusion that the word "injuring" is a better expression and that it comes from our legislation and then we have defined ourselves for this. That is why Mr Martinovic's amendment was not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21337	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21338	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Progressive Group of Serbia has already held its position on this bill in principle in the debate. We can still, eventually, repeat what we've been saying and say something new. It would be good if there were a representative of the promoter and, of course, it would be good if the ZES parliamentary group came forward with a view to this bill, since this law is "holding the thieves". There are at least two proverbs in our people that can explain the DS's relationship to LSV or other small parties that are with it in the coalition. One is "who with the devil's nut, pulls his butt" and the other is "who with the devil's gourd plantes, he's got his head peeled." The one who built the government of the Republic of Serbia with Nenad Canka knew this was waiting for him. He now has a good blackmailing capacity and it is indeed unacceptable sometimes and will appeal to the head of you who did it, to form the Government of the Republic of Serbia with Nenado Canka. I understand you've been able to do a lot of business with him, but to form a government that would be called the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in front of that same Serbia, he cursed his mother out loud, I still can't believe it. By the way, this is a fruit of agreement, blackmail and that Boris Tadic has again shown weakness for all those who do not think well of Serbia. Here, in fact, Nenad Canak turned to his electoral body. By inventing a latent danger from growing fascism, Nazism, neonationalism, he is in fact mobilizing and solidly mobilizing his electoral body in a desire to remain still in the percentage in which he can blackmail us. There is no danger for anyone in Serbia and, in particular, there is no danger, as you have said in your explanation – frequent certain forms of fallout and violation of the legal order that endangers constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens in the Republic of Serbia, especially on a national and religious basis. It would be a shame to put a lie into the reasoning of the law – frequent occurrences. And how does frequency occur? How many of these phenomena, gentlemen of the law, were you irritated to the point that 250 MPs must be here, in order for you to hold power in Serbia and Vojvodina, to listen to speculation about how to stop in Serbia by growing fascism and, worse still, Nazism? And this is suggested by a prominent fascism researcher among Serbs, Mr Nenad Canak. He has some special glasses to find fascism among Serbs, and it's his only job since he's been on the public stage or since he's been involved in politics. You shouldn't have bought this story. Why didn't you give him money? Why didn't you come up with something else to pay for Nenad Chanka? Where does he get enough to harass Serbia? World agencies report the need for such a law to be passed in Serbia. World agencies will show you, too, Mrs. Kolundzija, and you, my fellow Members, as you raise your hand to be voted on by a law that stops growing fascism and Nazism in Serbia. And you're all in it because that's what the big boss told you, and you don't know what the consequences of Serbia are going to take place and follow. You do not know that this debate and this adoption of the law are eager to wait for many European institutions to prove that nothing is right in Serbia and that we have learned nothing and that we remain nailed in the 19th century, perhaps even the 18th century. Europe is not proven by muddying your country, but by proving it is better than others. What do you need to fix in Serbia now? To ban the gatherings of young people who don't love you? What did they deserve to be called Nazis and fascists? Where did they come up with that? Which one of you had any problem on such a basis? Stand up, you minority members, and feel free to say if you've ever had problems on a national basis. Has anyone in Serbia ever harassed you? Has anyone ever mentioned a minority to you? Well, we're racing here who's going to prove a greater commitment to minorities, because we know what costs us and how much it costs us if someone puts us on a pillar of shame because of their relationship with minorities. And a Serb found himself saying that Serbs are Nazis and fascists. So who else would it be? We have our own people for it. There are always people like that in the Serbian people. This hurts terribly, Mrs. Kolundjia. This hurts both your neighbors and your relatives and your friends, this complicity in the crimes against the Serbs. When you add to this Srebrenica and The Hague tribunal, before which the whole of Serbia is condemned, there are stories about the Serbs and the Serb people, for all time nailed. And only God knows what other conditions we will face because we are fascists and Nazis. Those who invented it, those who killed half the world in the ideology of fascism and Nazism, are laughing at us today. Those fascists and the Nazis who killed us and shot us, they're laughing at us today. The victims of fascism and Nazism write the law to forbid themselves from accidentally falling into someone's head to be a fascist or a Nazi. You've just found a theme. I thought I'd talk about this because I have peace of mind for everything, but I don't have any for this law. I can endure anything, especially when it comes to personal insults, but this is an insult to the entire state. This is also an insult to Hungarians, Romanians, Russian, Slovaks, Albanians, Muslims, Serbs, Roma and all others. Because we're all here in the same basket, in a basket of people who are committed to fascism and Nazism, and now we need to prescribe fines of 100, 200, 300 thousand dinars to stop them from showing it. To ban fascist markings. And get on some search engine, are those Nazi and fascist markings off the search engines down there? Draw a swastika, see how much you get on the search engine. Who else forbids it? A man shouldn't behave like that. It doesn't need to be his ideology. What do you think if someone puts a man in a car with that sign? You'll confiscate his car after he's committed a serious crime in them, propagating fascism and Nazism. Or someone will draw a sign for you on a dusty car, and you will say, "Here is the one from the opposition," he even drew this sign on his car. Unfortunately, the opposition cannot influence the assembly of the agenda. We still don't have a body in which, at least in terms of putting together the agenda, someone from the opposition would ask. This is your butter, gentlemen of the government. You're breaking state laws, which the government has proposed, in order to remain on the agenda of this law. Were you allowed to tell Nenad Canka – we will remove your law, we cannot be able to vote on it until the end of the regular session? You shouldn't have. You're cowards. You don't have the guts to say that to Nenado Chanka, and he's going to spit on you again tomorrow, because he has the courage. God knows who's behind him, and he's not even that almighty God. So I'm convinced that deep down, you're deeply dissatisfied with what you're going to be participating in in the next few days. I am looking into your eyes now, and you will all come to make a quorum and vote in favour of this law so that you may remain in Vojvodina, so that you may remain in power in the Republic of Serbia, to be guarded by Nenad Canak. He really thinks very well of us, and this government that listens to and depends on Nenad Canka will be very good at leading Serbia. And he is provoking us to say more harshly to him, to show his threat, to address the international community, the organisations that protect him, to go back to America for six or seven months of schooling. That's Nenad Canak for you. He's got places in this congregation, but don't let him throw us out. When no one touches him, don't let him touch us either. He's got his own ideology, he's got his constituents, he's got people who trust him. Let them be honored, both to him and to them, but we have our own. Whenever we win more votes than he does, that's no reason for him to make up laws to be dealt with with. Because the ideology of Nenad Canka, which the DS will implement in this assembly, does not even have 2% of Serbian citizens to vote for it. Well, poor Serbia is in which 2% of voters decide whether to go forward or back, left or right. So please, if you have reason, if you want good to this Serbia, stand up once. If you can't tell America no, if you can't tell the Albanians at KiM you can't say no to criminals in Serbia, if you can't say no to tycoons, which you're all attacking and no one has taken any action against them, so at least tell Nenad Canka. Start with someone, see if there's anything you want to decide. I'm not asking you to go to Dinkic's, you can't, and you can't, we're gonna have to. All right, we'll be in position soon. But this Chanka thing is really embarrassing. Listen, you come from Nis, Valjev, Piroth, Loznica and you write a law against Nazism because Nenad Chanak suggested it to you! Where are the MPs from Kragujevac? We've been shot at thousands, and now we're going to write the law, so we don't happen to have Nazism. So we don't go to Germany or another country to shoot. Not to endanger any symbols that the old Rome, the Italians, the Germans, that are not ours, which is once someone who is against Serbia or some child draws on walls. And no one serious in Serbia has ever spread fascism or Nazism. Perhaps one government in World War II, as an occupation government, passed some laws that could be classified as fascists, but that was done by all European states that were under occupation. They all had laws like that, that's the time. At least the government did something for the Serbs if it had to pass different laws than the ones she had before. But it's not in the Serbs. You're looking for it in other nations. Other nations have ideologies like that. The Serbs don't have that ideology. In the 6th century, we were wanted by the great nations at their borders, to protect them, to defend them. They preferred to live with Serbs. Serb trails are all over Europe. And now you're here to accuse us, you've come here to explain to us the laws of Nazism and fascism. So you're going to go to the SPC to cut off the cake, and you attacked the Serbs that they were fascists and Nazis. We detest this bill, Mr. Vice President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21339	Thank you. I have to ask you, did you use the time of group president or whatever? Thanks for that, too. The word is Mr. Radovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21340	Gentlemen, I have in front of me the Information on the functioning of members of informal groups and individuals with neo-Nazi features in the area of the Republic of Serbia and the measures taken by the MUP of Serbia. This information dates back to 2005. The MUP prepared it and forwarded it to the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina on its request. If I didn't read everything, it would only take an apropo of whether there is a phenomenon of neonasism and fascism in the Republic of Serbia, you will hear from the next few sentences. Based on the knowledge available, it has been observed that there are individuals on the territory of the Republic of Serbia who identify their activities through the membership of some of the following groups: Skinheads, National Machine, Blood and Honor, Race nationalists and Faces. The informal social group National Machine, the secret racist, chauvinist, anti-Semitic organization of international character, is active in 18 states. Membership is lobbyed by pushing for the preservation of Serbian centuries-old territories by uniting all Serbian countries into a Serbian state and preserving Orthodoxism. The methods of recruiting membership are via the Internet, taking part in various Internet forums, etc. The MUP identified the participants and followed them... I don't want to read in order. The informal social group Serbian Blood and the honour of divisions began work in 1995, with the idea of spreading national socialism and motivating followers with radical activistism. It uses flags similar to a Nazi, cowardly cross and a two-headed eagle with four glasses. Membership is recognized by the characteristic Nazi markings, tattoos that cover whole arms, and even body. They wear black shirts with printed text – combat 18 or C18 etc. The Vojvodina, as well as the whole of the Republic of Serbia, is not immune to all this, so it has its own special groups that the MUP of the Republic of Serbia treats. For example. Informal social group Movement 64 of the county, whose activity was first observed in 2004. The phenomenal forms of their operation are manifested through the bonding of posters in public places, the content of which represents a map of 'great Hungary' covering, compared to the current borders, areas of all neighbouring countries. Then, Honvedi, an informal social group that exhibits its activities with a rally in a public enterprise in Hungary, etc. Apropo whether or not there is a phenomenon, the MUP is then, I believe from what they have said then, I am convinced that they are following and having complete what appears about fascism and neonasism in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Not to read here, they're taxing on all the more significant manifestations that happened to the team in our country's territory. It happens, unfortunately, and beyond. And in order not to happen, and so that the MUP and all the authorities of the Republic of Serbia could react in a timely manner, and as the vast majority of Serbian citizens believe, against such events and in any form of neonasism and fascism, such a law is passed. There's no one's intention to attack the Serbs, as the predecessor said, is what he said. Just for the end, what was very disturbing to me about what he was saying, which is because of my neighbours, both my fellow MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and neighbours in the city, in the province, the Republic, which is that there are people, even the MPs in several terms, who hold that national minorities should respect as much as they will cost us if we don't respect them. It bothers me very much, and I will stand up against it now and always. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21341	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Milos Aligrudic answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21342	Chairman, I think you have violated the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and this is Rule 104, which obliges you as chairman to take care of Parliament's dignity and this home. When some of the MPs pronounce such a heavy accusation by not citing names, it leaves the impression that there are many MPs in parliament who think in the way they have said it in their own statement. You had to react immediately and ask him to pronounce those names, make known the public what it is and who these people are thinking in that way. Then, if he doesn't, don't make a formal warning, but warn him that something like that can't do in the future, and if he continues to do so, make a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21343	Thank you. There is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, nor is there anyone who has spoken offensively of himself. (Milos Aligrudic: I am not satisfied with the answer. I ask that this be made known by the Parliament on Vote Day. ) In the day of the vote, the Assembly will declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure that you just pointed out. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica. I thank him for his patience, given that I did not realize that it was a replica of Mr Radovanovic's first presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21344	Mr. Novakovic, I have reported that Serbian citizens who are monitoring the transfer of this session would not be mistaken. Mr Radovanovic said one amazing thing, which is that the MPs who proposed this law respected about 90% of the amendments of the SRS MPs and that it would be incorporated into the bill. That's just not true. I have the opinion of these five MPs on amendments tabled by the MPs of the SRS and the Committee on Justice and Administration. The only amendment of the SRS that has been accepted is the amendment of Elena Christmas-Talijan, and for all other amendments, these MPs have proposed that they be rejected. But, which is very interesting, these five MPs have proposed that all amendments of the Committee on Justice and Administration be adopted. When I say the Justice and Administration Committee, I mean the DS amendment. Because the DS obviously did not have the courage to officially submit amendments, but they did so in one indirect way, so that the Committee on Justice and Administration, and yet that means MPs above all DS, wrote a large number of amendments to this bill and literally all and one amendment to the Committee on Justice and Administration, read the DS, accepted these five MPs. The DS will not be able to be amnested from political responsibility to Serbian citizens to pass this scandalous law. You can keep your mouth shut, pretend to be ignorant, look at the ceiling and the floor and go out drinking coffee, tomorrow when this law is published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and when it comes into force, this will be a picture and opportunity not so much of Nenad Canka, but Boris Tadic, the Democratic Party and the regime in Belgrade. Now I would like to show the citizens of Serbia something I will not call fascism, but I will call it separatism and violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I have a book in my hand called the Duke passport. Here are the words passport and the word Vojvodina written in Serbian, and this must be Croatian, Slovak and Russian. It says - passport to Europe. Here are the data of citizens who will own this passport - name and last name, citizenship, place of birth, date of birth, date of issue, period of validity of passports. Watch what goes on – this passport applies to the whole world on the basis of the following rules, and, among other things, to defeat those who are guilty of a high unemployment rate, slow European integration, abandoned agriculture and industry, for the pursuit of wartime profits and criminals, lies, hypocrisy and crime. This is ridiculous in itself. The LSV is in the coalition both in Vojvodina and at the level of the Republic of Serbia with DS, which is responsible for the high unemployment rate, for abandoned agriculture and industry, for stretching various profits and tycoons, etc. Then it is said this way – Vojvodina must become a European region in which the satisfied citizens of farmers, health and education workers, civil servants, pensioners, young and children live. In order to achieve all this, we need legislative, judicial and executive power in the AP Vojvodina. When it comes to legislative, executive and judicial authority, that means state. Ask the students of the first year of all law schools in Serbia and they will tell you that a political unit that has legislative, judicial and executive powers is not an autonomous province, but a state. Well, then we need the Duke's property and our money, the money stolen by the tycoons behind the Nenad Chanka. The government in the Republic of Serbia must no longer view the AP Vojvodina as a milk cow. The governments of the Republic of Serbia are no longer able to enter, let alone be ministers of people whose principles are to steal. Those who sit in government now, honor the exceptions, not to steal, but to steal the country for the greater. The owners of this passport will be able to travel with him to Europe unlimited number of times when these previous rules are fully applied. So the anti-fascism monopoly in Serbia has a party that has printed the passports of Vojvodina as a practically independent state. The anti-fascism monopoly has a party that printed maps of the Republic of Vojvodina, a party that printed those car tags with a capital V, according to international standards for sovereign states. You now see, Serbian citizens, how you will go with such anti-fascists, who are working to break up the state of Serbia and who say – citizens of Vojvodina, you will live well when you separate yourself from the equally poor citizens of Kragujevac, Šapco, Valjev, Bora, Negotina, Majdanpek, Nis, Leskovec and Ivanjica. So Nenad Canak persistently deceives Serbian citizens by telling that citizens in Vojvodina will live better when they are allegedly given a higher degree of autonomy. The next prank is that the autonomists of Nenad Canka are simply hoarding national minorities on Serbs, and Serbs on national minorities, and national minorities say -- you know, in Vojvodina, you're having a hard time living because of these Serbian nationalists, and they say to Serbs -- you know, we have to work to adopt this Vojvodina statute, we're being pressured by national minorities. It is not true, and we Serbs have no problem with the Hungarians, nor with the Slovaks, nor with the Romanians, nor with all other members of the national minorities in Vojvodina. All of us in Vojvodina, we who come from Vojvodina, have a hard time living. Not because Hungarian steals me and I, Hungarian, but because the province government in Novi Sad is corrupt. Both the Serbs and the Hungarians and the Slovaks and the Roma, while these and such province administrations, where, of course, the important places are also the anti-fascist party, such as the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21345	Thank you. The word is Mr. Tomic Zeljko.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21346	Thank you. What must be found at the outset is that if, and all the opportunity to do so is, the amendments of the Committee on Justice and Administration, or Mr. Bosko Ristic, or DS, we will get a completely different law compared to what the promoter had in mind. It will be a nice opportunity to compare this bill, which we now have in the raw version, to the final version of this bill for now. The difference will be unprecedented, because this original bill, the proposal of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, speaks of a much larger number, a broader spectrum of things to be banned, which should be sanctioned, etc. It was only after that debate that the Committee on Justice and Administration reacted in principle, i.e. Mr. Bosko Ristić, or DS, and, my God, as they have now courted and formed him, because it did not really look like anything. I can baptize this original bill as grammatically illiterate. That's what I was saying in the discussion in principle. The title is completely wrong, not to repeat it now, I see that the amendment corrects it, and as far as political characteristics are concerned, it is indeed for discussion. Let's talk about the title first. How can you prohibit manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organizations and not prohibit neo-fascist organizations? So, neo-fascists can cruise Serbia. Now, if any of you try to rephrase it to me, to warn him, about the concept of neofascism, whether it exists, in what forms, etc. We don't want to be philosophical about this at all. You're simply looking at the reasons why this law was passed, I'm speaking to the motionary, by emergency procedure. The first sentence reads – lately nationalist and neo-fascist organizations and individuals perform group and individual excessions. So you admit that neo-fascists exist, but in law you don't sanction them at all. You sanction fascists and neo-Nazis, and here you talk about nationalists. Just so the public knows, you nationalists (i.e. the Committee on Justice and Administration, i.e. Bosko Ristić, or DS) are evicting from this law. After that debate in principle, where the entire opposition and even certain representatives of the ruling coalition reacted, the notion of nationalism is now being cast out. You're waving neofascists here, but you don't put them in the title. So you're judging them, not sanctioning them. That's very interesting. That is concrete proof of your political illiteracy. Of course, you had time to make it right. In the assembly procedure, this law has been in place since 10 October 2008. In seven and a half months you could have changed a million of these, I don't even know what to call them, these nonsense like neonationalism. You had to introduce a cipher and an unspeakable one, because I don't think anyone knows what neonationalism means. Fortunately, nationalism is not a defeated ideology such as nationalism and fascism, and it exists in various forms, you will just have to say – who is to baptize someone with a nationalist in a bad sense. And last time, in principle, I was saying, "Let me see who's the one who's going to mark the nationalist as something bad and negative in itself." The Marxist textbooks from which you all learned and learned long ago in a historical dump. Ask Winston Churchill if he was a nationalist, ask Charles de Gaulle, ask Slobodan Jovanovic, a person with the most expensive Serbian bills, the first Serb to teach at Sorbonne, read if he is a nationalist. Of course it is. Again, who is it to determine? Is it Joseph Biden? Is it possible that he, who also told Zoran Djindjic that he was a nationalist, my dear legislators of this law? Is it possible that when the vice president of the United States, as vice president of the world's greatest power, says he's a nationalist, he should be convicted now? When was that fascism allowed in Serbia in the first place, that it should be banned today? Mr. Aligrudic also in the previous debate, in principle, already discussed which all the norms were forbidden to do. And the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You don't mind that. You need a papazian like this from the law to come to the fulfillment of some of your various whims. Is there fascism in Serbia? It's in the tracks, in the subcultural movements that came here from England in the early '80s. You won't find 200 or 300 of those. You, Mr. Radovanovic, who read the names of those organizations, if you are already in this problem, then you should have studied it eventually, so you could say how many people there are in total. Because, you know, if we look at it that way, there are "Yogi flyers" in Serbia, they even have their own political party, only no one is flying in Serbia. No one has yet learned to fly in Serbia, and there are "Yogi flyers" who say it is possible, even as a political party (I hope not long). You say, judge. In fact, you want to judge the defeated, or dead, totalitarian ideologies. Interestingly, I will remind you that the 1996 Council of Europe has leveled fascism and communism with the 1996 resolution. And I ask you again, what about the dog's graves, the goulashes, the naked islands? How many millions of people died around the world? That totalitarian ideology is not in laws like this, but never mind, let's move on. How many mustaches have been torn up in Vojvodina and how many people have been killed there? It's forgotten, it doesn't matter, it's on behalf of something light, on behalf of entering expensive apartments and houses, taking away the property of the older owners. You don't want to say a word about it. You actually wanted to return the famous member of the 133rd old criminal code, or verbal delinquent, that if I said "lived Serbia," I was a potential nationalist, possibly and fascist, my God. But, gentlemen, I repeat, your ideology is dead, the ideology from which you were born is dead. The repressions you want and suggest don't exist. The nationalists can walk freely. Maybe they couldn't have done it in 1945. They can walk freely on the streets both Serbia, France, England, America, Russia and any country in the world. That's perfectly normal. The fact that you've learned something else, what nationalism is, and what chauvinism and patriotism is, and you've never learned, or your party president, one, that's your problem, but don't bring it in here, don't be a problem for all of us here and the public who's looking at this. You are so invited through the bill that I do not quote you on constitutional rights, you are calling for the respect of the Constitution, and you are printing the calendar of the "Vojvod's Republic" for this year, such a most ferocious example of the violation of the Constitution. You're still playing hat-laps and you're putting the Hatter in Vojvodina. You mean if Joseph Broz liked to play hat-lap, now we're going to put "whispers" in the Republic of Vojvodina. That's very sweet. And you wanted something else in the bill, and I'm going to repeat that, to charge and condemn anyone who propagates the Hague indictees and convicts. It's just, we'll never forget, Serbia won't forget, that your president, who suggested it, was very nice to hang out with Happy Lukic, so he went to send him to The Hague, all with the tin music, right here in Nikola Pasic Square. So he went to the opening of the golf course of another Hague indictee, Dragan Vasiljkovic, known as Captain Dragan. It was like "in," it's golf courses, let the elite gather. That was good. And now that the Hague is indictee... I believe he doesn't hear from him, as he can't visit his great friend in the Nenada Opačić prison, to give him a little newspaper, cigars and oranges, he can't do that. So much for him and as a man. At the time, we had this one, popularly called in the Serbian people -- the law on partisans and Chetniks, where we always sought and contributed to the calming of passion, the calmer the political atmosphere, that Serbia would not be divided. And what you do, in my opinion, is fostering division, both in Serbia's political life and in the people of Serbia at all, and in that part of it called the AP Vojvodina. This is one big pamphlet, an attempt to discriminate against political opponents, nothing more than that. Here only Article One was important, in terms of the banalizing, talking about the cowardly crosses. Everything else was directed at someone else. It was seen throughout the hall, both by the opposition and by parts of the ruling coalition. Because what if your proposals had come true? Radicals would not carry the badges of Seselj, the Socialists should not hang Milosevic's picture anywhere, because they are Hague indictees (for now there are no convicts, and I don't think there will be any, as things stand). It was important not to wear it, not to print it, not to propagate it. It's a slippery terrain. That's what Mr. Zarko Korach told you in the debate. If you get into that, you become totalitarians and you're a totalitarian part of the government. Most interestingly, you're with the same socialists in the coalition. "O tempara, o mores." Where's your soul, dear "legass"? Of course this law cannot pass, but it is good that Serbia has revealed your behaviour. That's the most important thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21347	Please tell me if you said this as an authorised representative. You used 12 minutes and 15 seconds. The word is Miss Alexandra Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21348	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I would first and foremost refer to the presentation of MP Zeljko Tomic. It is interesting that from the thesis that was being represented at the outset, that there are no fascist organisations in Serbia, there are no fascists, now, with the help of this information that the competent state authority of the MUP, whose head was then the minister from your party, delivered to the Vojvodina Assembly, came to the conclusion that these organisations have, however, are not so large that we should not be concerned, and even those organisations compare themselves with some 'Yogi flyers'. The small difference is that these "yogi flyers" don't call for the lynch of entire social groups in our society, while these organizations that the MUP is talking about are calling for death, killing and persecuting the entire parts of our society unless they are called on to reason, changing their identities, nationality, religion, sexual orientation or something like that. So the little difference is that really yoga flyers don't pose that kind of danger to society. When you were talking about events related to the communist government, in fact, in general about events after World War II, it should be said that the Vojvodina Assembly had set up a committee of inquiry into the truth about the events after World War II. The book on that in 12 volumes with the names of all civilian and innocent victims has come out. I suppose that, as well as anything else that the Vojvodina Assembly does, it doesn't matter at all, but just get to know the facts before you bring them to this assembly. As for Mr Martinovic's presentation, I don't think his views on regionalism and the state and territorial arrangement of the Republic of Serbia should be commented at all. The attitudes of the SRS are known. After all, your colleagues said in their previous session that the position of the SRS is that Vojvodina should not exist. The different our attitude is from yours, the more we are proud of it. You do not see Vojvodina at all, and we see it as a modern European region with all the competencies that a modern European region should have, which will contribute to a better life for both the citizens of Vojvodina and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So I wouldn't go into that controversy with you. I'm just sorry to say that, besides the facts, the numbers aren't very close to you. You said it wasn't true that a large number of your amendments were accepted. You have submitted 23 amendments, two of which are directly accepted, one is the amendment of Paja Momchilova and the other Elena Christmas-Talijan, and 17 have been accepted through the amendments of the Committee on Justice and Administration because they were similar and their adoption has actually covered the adoption of these amendments. So, when it comes to that, please provide accurate information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21349	The replica was answered by Mr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21350	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry Mr. Nenad Canak is not here. This is how it's going to turn out that maybe some harder word, of course exclusively on the political agenda, I'm going to refer to the charming Miss Jerkov and LSV. You see, I'm not saying that I'm some expert on autonomous areas in the EU, in general on some legal principles, etc., I admit that I am a man of modest mind, but I do know something about it. I really do not know any European region in any country, or EU Member State, in which the region has legislative, executive and judicial authority. Please explain to me (it interests me not as an SRS MP, but as a citizen who knows something about law) – in what is the difference between a sovereign state and what you call an autonomous province that has legislative, executive and judicial authority? If you find any difference, please let me know about it, to be richer in scientific knowledge from that area. Ms. Jerkov, if you have carefully followed the presentation of your esteemed colleague Radovanovic, whenever he spoke about these organizations such as "Blood and Honor", "National Machine", etc., he previously used the prefix of "unformal social groups". You must distinguish between organised political movements registered in the competent ministry, between political parties, and these so-called so-called political movements. informal social groups. These aren't mass movements. They are, as counterpart Radovanovic said, informal social groups. Now, these informal social groups in Serbia, unfortunately, you have as much as you want. When I say informal social groups, I mean those destructive social groups. I find it interesting that no one in LSV has ever answered, say, against religious sects. These religious sects are far more dangerous in Serbia today than "National Machine" and "Blood and Honor". "National Machine" and "Blood and Honor" are your regular Internet sites. Someone does an Internet presentation, it's done in Serbia today in one day or one afternoon, and now they say -- now it's some mass organization that threatens Serbian citizens. No, but religious sects also question life, property and security of Serbian citizens. The newspapers are full, unfortunately, of black chronicles in which sects each day kill someone, defile a cemetery (both Orthodox and Catholic), print various scaling words on chapels, tombstones, etc. I guess that's what you should fight. Let you hotheads, gourds young people who don't know what they're called yet, or what's left or what's right, who reproduce some ideas in Serbia that are imported from the West. Miss Jerkov, the country and Nazism and fascism and Bolshevism and every other form of totalitarianism is Western Europe. That's where those ideas came from. There, ideologists learned from individual philosophers, and there they formed the idea of the supremacy of a nation, the supremacy of a race. I'd like to remind you of one fact. For years, a campaign has been under way in Serbia, among other things, against bishop Nikola Velimirovic, who was eventually declared a priest of the Serbian Orthodox Church. There is no ugly name that has not been used for this high-ranking Serbian Orthodox Church. He was a fascist, and a Chetnic ideologist, and who knows what. Prime Minister Nikolaj Velimirovic held a series of lectures on the territory of the United Kingdom and on the territory of the United States at the time of World War I. In these lectures, he explained the need not only to free the Southern Slovenians, but also to defend the basic Christian values against, among other things, racism itself. There's one speech he says, among other things, like this (unfortunately, I didn't bring it here, but I'll try to interpret it): Who is this man who can say, "These flowers that grow in the garden of God should be ripped out, and someone else should water?" He who created both blacks and whites created them in God's image. All the nations and all the races that exist in the world have the same value, and in God's eyes is equally worth both white and black and Indian and Chinese. That's what Bishop Nikolaj Velimirovic said. And today, he's been called a fascist by various ignorants, former communist gypsies and spies, historians who doctored on the Fourth and Fifth Enemy offensives. And not only to the bishop Nikola Velimirovic, but also to many other Serbian national sizes that never, in their mind, exhibited anything that would at least look like Nazism or fascism. Well, Serbs are the biggest victims of fascism and Nazism in Europe, along with the Russians, Poles and Jews. Interestingly, I have never heard from the mouth of the Social Democrats League MPs of Vojvodina in one case, which is very characteristic. In January 1942, in Novi Sad and in southern Buck in general, a large pogrom of Serbs, Jews and Roma was carried out. It was the famous raid, which lasted during January 21st, 22rd and 23rd, 1942. Many innocent citizens were killed, not only in Novi Sad, but also in Frogs, Curug, Our Ladys, etc. One of the main organisers of the raid was Shandor Kepiro, if I am not mistaken, the Hungarian gendarme captain, who, of course, fled to Argentina after World War II to rat channels, along with Ante Pavelic and many other Ustasha criminals. He came back from Argentina in 1996. There he is now living, alive and healthy, in the distant years of life, in Budapest, and that the irony may be greater, in a large apartment located near the synagogue in Budapest. I have never heard of Nenada Chanka asking that this Chandor Kepiro be delivered to Serbia and that, at least in this way, a satisfaction be given to the victims of the Novosada raid and members of their families. Today, Miss Jerkov, Belgrade is covered with posters calling for the parastoss of Usta Pavelic's Ustasha chief. I haven't heard a word on that subject, and history, unfortunately, repeats itself here in Belgrade. You have a Serb who published a book in 1944 that was printed secretly, that the Germans don't know, and it's called "the Croats in the light of historical truth". This man, of course, was persecuted by the occupation regime and used the pseudonym "Psunski". In the book, he published a letter from some Ustasha headquarters for Belgrade in 1942, expressing hope that the future Catholic Belgrade will be attached to Croatia. Two years ago in the Orthodox cemetery in Old Paz, graphites were written in large black letters - "U", "Black Legion", "NDH" and "Serbs on willows". I've never heard Nenad Chanka say a word on the subject, and Old Paz is on the territory of him so beloved AP Vojvodina. As far as autonomy is concerned, questions as Serbian autonomy arises, etc., who are today's autonomists, I've talked about it many times. In the 19th century, the largest Serbian nationalists were autonomists, because they were fighting for Serbian autonomy within the framework of a foreign Habsburg monarchy, but when the time came to create a single Serbian state, or the state of southern Slovenia, they rejected that autonomy. Why do we need autonomy in our own country? Who today represents autonomous ideas in Vojvodina? You have, Miss Jerkov, a graphite in Novi Sad, very funny and very true, writes - the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina, Serbs from Grazac, from Lapc, from Gospić. Immigrants in Vojvodina after World War II miraculously became some of the largest autonomists in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21351	The word is made by MP Zeljko Tomic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21352	Let me just fill in Mr. Martinovic. All my roots are from Vojvodina, and I'm, well, I'm a clerofashist. It's just amazing, but good. The replica of my colleague Jerkov, first of all for this book. I didn't mean locally, just on the premises of the AP Vojvodina, I also mentioned gulags, etc., much further than Vojvodina, but it doesn't matter. I think it's pointless that you're trespassing, but good. You say it started with the thesis that there are no fascists in Serbia. It's just, you didn't say who put the thesis out, I didn't hear it. I heard the thesis that Serbia has nothing to do with fascism, I represent it, that it has no historical connection to fascism. And for those groups like "National Machine" and "Blood and Honor" Serbia wouldn't know if you hadn't popularized them, if you hadn't given them meaning, so now you've doubled the number for some of the proud young guys who recognize it as something. Do you think if this law was passed, they would be extinguished? So, where are those moves off or not there? Maybe there's nothing in Albania, and there's not one in Turkey. I think there are such informal groups in all European countries, I did not say organisation. You say they're dangerous because they threaten to die, etc. So wait, your president threatened to die. Did he threaten to hang? What do we do with him? What kind of fascism, neonacism, neonationalism, neo...? Give me that definition of what it is when someone threatens to hang. Neolithic? And who? Slobodan Milosevic, whose representatives today sit with you in the coalition. He broke the plates of Serbian Television. Your people are famous for beating up political inexperiences. I was pulling out a man, talking to him last time, under the disintegrated "slippers," the driver of a famous SPS official. You simply have that aggressive note in you. You'd be banning, hanging, beating, banging, and wanting to introduce yourself as a Pacific version of some kind of social democratic idea. You won't get away with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21353	The word is Mr. Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21354	I must admit that I agree with some of the things my esteemed colleague Zeljko Tomic said in his first presentation. I agree that Serbia has never been suitable for the development of fascism, it is known to everyone. I agree that Communism is just as great an evil as fascism. But that doesn't mean that Serbia, as it is, doesn't need one such law. It seems to me that the biggest problem with this law is that it was written by the MPs of the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina and Nenad Canak, and that all criticisms are currently coming to him personally, not to certain members and to what it says in this law. According to this law, the SPO is defined exactly according to what it says. Despite the accepted amendments to Art. Four and six, the SPO will support this bill. We believe these members have not lost their meaning. We will also support this law for a simple reason, because a 60-year-old mental torture did not affect the legislators of this law, as well as the long-standing spread of lies and lies when it comes to the Equality Movement, i.e. The Yugoslav army in the country. Unfortunately, false history has left a mark on some colleagues who have spoken in this home and who are out of line of false and pointless things when it comes to this anti-fascist movement. However, we hope and I am sure that the time is coming, and also with the help of this law, when Draža Mihailovic and his movement will be removed from the ideological communist complexion and we will have the opportunity to learn an objective history. I'll just say, since I have a little time, a few very interesting facts that are easily verifiable, but unfortunately unreachable to the general public. In the UN founding document, where all the Quislin movements are listed, there is no word on Dragoljub Mihailovic's movement. It is also little known that in 1943 General De Gaulle decorated Draž with the Battle Cross and that President Truman posthumously decorated him with the Order of the Legion for Merits. We in the SPO are aware that we cannot all here and beyond, convince what is written in scientific books and in some historical data, but we address those who respect the authority of the argument and we advise that what we do is not of personal interest or party benefit, in order to treat some personal or party frustration, but for one simple reason - that our children would have the right to the truth when we didn't already have one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21355	He has the word Mr. Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21356	This time I'm going to sit, not because I don't respect you, I usually speak standing, but, simply, this subject and the promoter and all of this don't require the need to stand. Here you have these amendments that have arrived at this text of the law, which I have previously claimed to be completely pointless, that it is a huge legal pleonism, or even some kind of legal plagiarism compared to the rest of the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, and the most characteristic is, although it is still debated on Article 1, in fact, Article 3 of this law and amendments to that member of the law, which has been proposed by the Committee, which is the best example of what I am going to say – that these amendments, which have been applied to this law, absolutely nothing is being corrected. These amendments technically change the text, grammatically harmonize it, make it something out of a terrible legal cadaver that could go through in law school as a relatively correct text, but in terms of the meaning that this bill should bear and don't give God the next day the adopted text that will be published in "The Official Messenger", there's nothing left. Namely, if you, say, in Article 3. The bill (if only I can borrow from Mr. Tomic, for a moment, the text of the law itself) says that production, multiplication, storage, presentation, greatness, etc. is prohibited. propaganda material, symbols that can be caused or challenged (no matter what is changed), racial hatred, impatience, national and religious hatred etc., propagating or justifying (now it has changed into neo-Nazi) and fascist ideas and organizations, or the legal order is being threatened – do you realize, even with this change of text, that you have written enormous stupidity and legal pleonism? What distinguishes the content of this text, your bill, from other norms of our legal system that incriminate this behavior is, under one, that you have no incrimination in this law, but merely predicting a violation. And the content of this Article 3, and even as amended, has been incriminated by a certain member of the Serbian Criminal Code, whose provisions, and this crime has three forms, and the mildest form of that criminal act foresees a single rubber, a very broad norm, which sums up within itself... What is the substance of a crime with you, there is a crime. And what does not contain the KZ, which are these elements of neonasism and fascism, contain some other regulations, beginning with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that protects society, the roof norm, from violating the constitutional order. And because you don't know what fascism is, or neofascism, or Nazism or neonasism, the problem is that you're a proponent, because you're a dilettante. Fascism is basically, as well as Nazism, they have one generic property, that it's propagating a totalitarian order that negates a multiparty system, negates a different opinion and assumes society's corporate ideology. That's the essence of it, that you can't move and write with any other idea because one leader, one ideology, is what needs to be run by society in its progress. It's a backwards idea of fascism and Nazism. What distinguishes Nazism from fascism, for which evil was celebrated in the 20th century, is that another modus is added to fascist ideology, which is hatred of another race or another nation, which is propagated as the basis of such order. Then, it produces the extension or destruction of a whole group, a whole population of people, just because it belongs to one nation or one religion or one race. That's the basis of that story. Then look at the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and see how the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia protects the legal order against the violation of this legal order itself, how the Criminal Code protects citizens of Serbia against the violation of the same legal order, which is basically democratic, to defend itself against totalitarian ideology (for which it goes to prison, ladies and gentlemen proposing this nonsense) and how society protects against racial and religious hatred, intolerance and intolerance through certain provisions of the Criminal Code of this country. You can't view this country's legal system, legal norms isolated. You've decided to play with all of us, proposing a ridiculous regulation, and mentioning both the M.O.P. and their report on some groups, so what does that have to do with it? Do you know, and you don't know, because you don't even know the Constitution, because if you knew it, you wouldn't have the leader of your party treated the Constitution as it has been here before, if you didn't have any internal resistance to read the letter of that Constitution, so you'd know that even under our laws that are now in force can act against such informal groups and act against such informal groups and criminal charges are filed against them. What you wrote here has nothing to do with reality, nor can your law, even after such changes, be applied in practice. Imagine an infringing judge, imagine an authority that needs to delete an organization from the register, which should apply your law without any concepts or standards. How is that possible? Someone here said, in an earlier debate, that you were persecuting or trying to persecute people here because they had thought to make a certain mark, for which you here, without any concepts or categorization, would claim to be the mark of neonasism or fascism. What are you talking about? Do you know that swastika, the famous cowardly cross, is not the ideological mark of German Nazism at all? It was used in its Nazi ideology by Adolf Hitler, in a very unfortunate way, and, unfortunately, from that moment on in the consciousness of many citizens and people in this world, it becomes a symbolic mark of this evil movement. It's a kind of symbolism, which you can find in the symbol dictionary wherever you want, which is much older than that. You will now, with your nonsense from the proposal, force the acting criminal judge to appreciate whether someone who drew a cowardly cross is somewhere or published an Internet presentation, etc. thought one thing, the other or the third, or you'll determine what anyone can draw or write. It's nowhere in the democratic world. This is a mockery of antifascism. What you wrote was mocking democracy in Serbia. What you wrote was mocking the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia because when you write pleonasm and claim that you need something to protect this stupidity you wrote, you mock the legal order that protects it. You are mocking us who have democratic ideas, which are why we are in this assembly and we are dealing with politics and we have been against communism and we have founded political parties in Serbia, which are why, because of these same democratic ideas, we are certainly against you, because you are the greatest armed democracy that we can imagine. Cryptocommunism is worse than communism itself. What you do and how you represent yourself is one of those kinds of colorful lies that, fortunately, there is no broad and deep root amongst citizens, so you can't fool them in large numbers. You can cheat on some people for a while, but not all people all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21357	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21358	Madam Chairman, I can really understand the political differences that exist, but I still don't think it's right to violate the dignity of the National Assembly, and that's why I'm responding. I think it's a qualification that someone is ignorant, that he's a dilettante, that one or another is a difficult qualification, which qualify not only for those who sit in this parliament, but also for those citizens who voted for these political parties. In particular, I find it inappropriate to qualify for some parliamentary group to be made up of diletes, ignorants, uneducated people who write bad laws, from those people who didn't mind the political party with them being in a coalition when Vojislav Kostunica was Prime Minister and to vote for Vojislav Kostunica. Why are you disgusting these people now? Then, at the moment Vojislav Kostunica was elected Prime Minister, those people didn't bother you. I can't really understand that sentence. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21359	Thank you. There's no basis for replication, there's nothing offensive, nothing vague. It's a business thing. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21360	Okay, you think I don't have the right to a replica. You've estimated this by considering that the member of the Rules of Procedure who speaks of the right to replica gives you discretionary rights, which I don't think you're right. On the other hand, Mr. Milivojevic (this is what I end up with, so that you don't get too excited) just a little bit incorrectly conveyed what I said. He incorrectly interpreted my words in his earlier presentation. If you don't think that's the basis for the replica, then, believe me, you're making a deep mistake. I didn't mention anyone's education, I didn't mention any moment in my exposure that some dilettante was a gentleman. I was talking about a dilettante bill. And when someone makes a bill of law in an unsuspecting, bad way... We are not obliged to be lawyers, but when we submit the text of the bill to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for adoption, we must take care of some nomotechnical rules. When someone doesn't know how to do it, when every letter is misspelled on him, I'm sorry, why shouldn't I be in an open region (unless we want to introduce a verbal delinquent here, in the conduct of the MP) say it's legal dilettism? I don't see what's insulting who.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21361	I didn't realize which member was injured. I hurt the Rules of Procedure by misjudged? There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Would you like to go to Voting Day to make a statement to the Assembly? You're angry. Why did you get angry? Here you go, Mr. Tomic. On what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21362	It's literally only 15 seconds. What does a ignorant woman mean, but what does a know-it-all mean? Let someone in this room explain to me the concept of neonationalism. Now, that's called dilertism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21363	Does anyone else report for Mr. Martinovic's amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Martinovic. Here you go. You're wasting your time on a group of MPs? You have 42 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21364	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we could hear tonight in the debate in detail that there are informal social groups in Serbia that promote the death of other nations and races, which promote Nazi and fascist ideas. And indeed such informal social groups exist. What's funny is the way lawmakers intend to fight these phenomena. They will fight Nazism, fascism, neonacism, etc. Violent sanctions. So you degrade the idea of authentic and real fighting these phenomena by prescribing infringing fines for such phenomena. If someone is propagating another man's death just because it belongs to another nation or race or religion or has some kind of different political confidence and then you're going to sanction it with a fine of up to 50,000 dinars, then there's no real desire to deal with these phenomena. All he has is a desire to raise social dust, to draw attention to himself, and in this way one extremely incorrect and anti-constitutional political struggle with his political rivals, or political inexperiences. It is enough to say that, let's say, you fight against the Autonomous Region having legislative, executive and judicial authority, to fight the adoption of the Statutes of Vojvodina in the Serbian Parliament, and you are already at risk of being declared by Nenad Canak tomorrow as fascists, Nazis, neo-Nazis, etc. So there's no sincere desire here to contain either neonasism or fascism or anything like that. He has a desire to draw attention to himself and bring a small, truly miniature political party (and at the level of Vojvodina, and especially at Serbia level) to himself a monopoly on anti-fascism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21365	Thank you. Mrs. Zlata Djeric wants a word. You have 10 minutes at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21366	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to support Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic's amendment, I would first of all like to ask one question. Why has it ever come to this that two very important laws, the law on statistics and the law on censuses, which should have preceded this law, are removed from the agenda, and we know how important they are and how important it is to enter into the process of winning knowledge of our true state in Serbia, the number of residents and all other relevant data that should present us in the world, and that this law is left alive, on the agenda? First of all, the adoption of this law will be a kind of disgrace to this parliament, because we see it as an open, public stamping of the Serbian people as a fascist, as a Nazi people, not a nationalist. I am really interested in how pro-European this law is, so he has experienced such support for the ZES and how many European countries, which in their tradition have fascism as a political movement, have such laws and how much they deal with it. First of all, we need to know that this Europe, which we are so impressed with, is not made up of regions, but from countries, and from national states. Because if that were not the case, then at the Olympics their teams would appear under the flag of the EU, and they would not be racing to win medals for their country and to turn their flag over their heads. What is mentioned here as a controversial phenomenon that triggered the need for such a law, are some informal ones, as is said here, groups that have appeared and are really interested in me, given that they were given this publicity, and they did not come upon fertile ground in the Serbian people and have not become phenomena and have not been able to develop in such a way as to have some sects, which is what a colleague had previously spoken of and which no one here has seriously raised a voice, which is a monster of the Serb people, so who in fact has instructed these individual phenomena at all and what is their role and what purpose they serve, since they have never, I say, ever, in the Serbian people and even lived on this soil in some serious way? Excess always is and always is, and it's not something that's unknown, and so far the MUP has been very serious about stopping the reckoning, and it's never been a mass phenomenon, it's not a way of thinking, nor was it something that we can consider our mentality here, so that we need this law. First of all, we recently adopted the Law on Discrimination and there are some similar phenomena, which could be undermined by some kind of human rights threat, very clearly defined and sanctioned. What bothers me, first of all, is that the proposal comes from a party run by a man who publicly proposes at a certain point that political insinuates hang themselves because, my God, they have brought much evil. Well, now, he's allowed to be a judge and to advocate such an idea, and some other things and other concepts would sanction very drastically and very strictly. When we talk about Vojvodina, first of all, about Vojvodina, and about what Vojvodina should be or whether Vojvodina needs some secessionist idea, we need to think about it very seriously. We really need to worry about how much this idea is going through here, because it's not a useful idea for us in Vojvodina. I say that as a Serbian woman from Vojvodina. My roots in Vojvodina are very long, which is witnessed by several generations of crosses in the Orthodox cemetery, and I have no reserve country except Vojvodina and Serbia along with Vojvodina. So, what is today considered the Duke's is tascriptocommunism. That famous calendar in Vojvodina shows the Sabbath, which was never there. And if anyone already loves Vojvodina so much, which is not remembered by Baranja, who was in Vojvodina, whom even Pavelic did not dare to take in his own time, and Serbian communists so coldly let go. We have to ask ourselves what the goal is and what the motive is (because you always ask the question of goals and motives) and then you come to what is the goal of some secession or what is behind regionalization at all. So then you get that regionalisation is very similar to what happened in Montenegro, which is to reduce the electoral body to the possibility of turning into a private electoral body, which is then tasked with doing what is done and that power is done differently and in the individual benefit of individual groups. That's what's certainly wrong with this law, which is why we can't support it. An interpretation of the symbol is indeed a very problematic thing in a law like this, because anything can be taken under anything, anything can be misused. For example, we all know that the symbol of fascism is "fascism" Italian word fasso (snop). So those who have in their family tradition grain, let's say traders who have a grain beam, and they'll be able to be subjected to this kind of interpretation. We of the NS law really cannot support in any letter, and we will not be able to agree here in public and parliamentary terms, by adopting such a law, to carry out the stamping of the Serbian people as fascist and as a Nazi people, because the adoption of such a law means that we recognize that we have this phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21367	Thank you. National MP Radovan Radovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21368	On behalf of the promoter, I would like to thank Mrs Gordani Pop-Lazic for her suggestions through this amendment. Everyone who's looked more closely at the bill now can see that we've respected it. This suggestion is not in Article 1, but in Article 4. So it is only those who are condemned, as she suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21369	I would like to thank the rapporteur's representative. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21370	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use this amendment by my colleague Milan Avramovic to draw attention to the citizens of Serbia and to the MPs for a skillful deception that has been served for years by LSV, which is that the SRS is a party that promotes national hatred, impatience, ethnically clean state, etc. Mr. Radovanovic also tried to impute such ideas to the SRS tonight, so I would like to remind him of one fact. Since 1992, after the parliamentary elections, the SRS MP in the Serbian Parliament has, among other things, been Mrs Elvira Fekete, Hungary and Catholics, and has fought so hard for the ideology and SRS programme that it has surpassed even many Serbs. I would also like to remind you, Mr Radovanovic, that a number of SRS volunteers in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska were just the citizens of Serbia's non-Serb nationality. There were both Hungarians and Romanians and Bosniaks, i.e. Muslims, and Vlaha, etc. Therefore, when you talk about phenomena such as Nazism, fascism, neonacism etc., bypass, colleagues Radovanovica, SRS. We've never expressed any idea that would have anything to do with these phenomena, nor are we representing these ideas today. On the contrary, if any man in this world is threatened by phenomena that and how they relate to Nazism and fascism, then it is just the president of the SRS Vojislav Seselj. Tomorrow, this famous lawsuit begins with contempt of the court. By animal welfare law, you guarantee animals kept indoors to have enough time every day to walk freely. The fact that you guarantee animals is being violated today in The Hague tribunal by Vojislav Seselj. Vojislav Seselj has been isolated from the outside world, imprisoned in his cell, unable to walk, his life is at risk in The Hague tribunal, more specifically in the detention unit of The Hague tribunal called Seveningen. Now, you, the grand newlyweds of the UN tribunal, probably don't know one fact. In this Cheveningen during World War II, there was a German concentration camp for Dutch anti-fascists. And today you can read the messages that were written by Dutch anti-fascists before they died on the walls of Cheveningen before they were taken to the German firing machines. In this same Cheveningen today, Vojislav Seselj is brutally violated by fundamental human rights and freedoms. None of you great anti-fascists have said a word about it, but that's why you want to ban the wearing of badges with the image of Vojislav Seselj, a man who has become the conscience of modern humanity in the fight against a phenomenon that has caused mankind almost as much evil as fascism, which is globalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21371	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 1 of the amendment, paragraph 5, Article 142 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted to the Committee on Justice and Administration. The MPs of the law have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Ragush submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word first has a National MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21372	Just for a little while, since I haven't had a chance to address the previous amendments. I'd like to point out the several unnaturalities of this law. In the bill of law, you state, among other things, that you will ban the propaganda of Hague indictees. I would remind you that The Hague tribunal, among other things, has accused Gruban Malic, a fictional literary figure, so a man who never existed. He accused him of participating in mass crimes of rape in BiH. Turns out it's a literary personality from the novel Miodrag Bulatovic. The question arises whether you will ban or perhaps burn Miodrag Bulatovic's books, as Hitler did. That's one question. Second question. I think the proposing representatives are promoting fascist and Nazi ideology. Here's one piece of evidence. Professor Enrico Josif, who survived the Holocaust for propaganda against the Serbian people that began in the 1990s, and this bill is a continuation of this propaganda, said the following in an interview: "I repeat, it was done against Serbs to direct media genocide, media Auschwitz. They've turned the Serbs into freaks, how they've mutilated us through the centuries, especially through Goebbels and his propaganda.' So, gentlemen of the League, that's what the man who survived the Holocaust says. Furthermore, if you had done a little comparative law, you would have found a precedent in American legal practice - Brandenburg v. Ohio. It's about a member of the Q Klux Clan, who directly called for the murder of blacks and Jews, who was convicted by one law of the state of Ohio. The US Supreme Court amended the verdict, reduced his sentence, abolished the state of Ohio law because he felt that his right had been violated guaranteed by the First and 14th amendments to the US Constitution guaranteeing freedom of speech. It's the cornerstone of hate speech in American legal practice. Think about it. You could have read something coming from the West, you'd have found this precedent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21373	The word is Mr. Radovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21374	I just wanted you to point out that the motionary adopted this amendment to Mr. Paia Momchilov, precisely because of the reasons he gave. So, just to point out that this was adopted on our side and on the side of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21375	On the basis of Article 3 of the amendment, paragraph 5, Article 142 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted to the Committee on Justice and Administration. The MPs of the law have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21376	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 in which I ask that the words "can cause, encourage or spread hatred" should be replaced by the words "provoking or spreading hate". The promoter rejected my amendment with an explanation, listen to it – the amendment is not accepted because of the amendment of the relevant Committee on Justice and Administration. I've never read such a meaningless and illiterate explanation. What does it mean – because of the amendment of the committee? If this law proposes banning these manifestations, symbols and markings, then the incriminating actions must be clearly, precisely and unequivocally stated. No condicional like "can" is allowed here. If the promoter was serious in his intention, if this bill does not reflect some exhibitionism of the signatories, then it must be seen unequivocally from the bill. In addition to inappropriate qualifications and expressions abounding in this proposal, which makes it more like a better-looking pamphlet, since love for its own nation and hatred for other nations is placed in the same plane, the reason that the promoters stated in the explanation is incomprehensible. More likely, injured citizens of Serbia, through their representatives in this home, could be expected to submit a bill banning Cank's provocations with calendars of the non-existent state of Vojvodina, with type-provokings -- the Vojvodians are in prison, only with a little better food, the support of Croatian Ustashas who openly give to Srem, by failing to respond to the traditional choirs of Hungarian fascists of the notorious Honved, which offends the Serbian people, the Serbian Constitution and the state. If the bill is adopted without respecting the essential remarks that most MPs have made in the principle debate and the amendment, I am sure that the impact of certain members of this law will be found precisely by the applicants of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21377	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (Yes, Proposer.) Here you go, Mr. Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21378	I'd just like to ask the lady, all those present and those who want to hear me say that exactly what she said now and standing in the proposal, just like that, "who are," so what she wanted to add, that's what we added. So instead of "can cause, encourage or spread hatred and impatience", that's exactly what it stands for: "provoking, encouraging or spreading hatred or impatience", but it was not possible to adopt more amendments to one member, so we took one that was far more concrete and more determined to improve the text of the law. What I'm saying is that everything the lady said was adopted and is now contained in the bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21379	Thank you. Mrs. Plecevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21380	You haven't explained why my amendment is being rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21381	Mr. Radovanovic, you'll probably try to say the same thing again. It was pretty clear, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21382	I don't know if it's necessary. We could not accept its amendment because it included only part of Article 3 and the Committee's amendment included some other parts of Article 3 so that its amendment was contained in what the Committee had proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21383	So basically the amendment was accepted, but not yours, because it was accepted even more specifically than yours. There, that's it. All right. Nobody wants a word on this amendment anymore? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21384	Since we have established that there is no point in reporting to the Rules of Procedure (of course, I will report in the future, but today I had no intention), I would like to ask you, Madam President of the National Assembly, why you did not inform us that a direct transmission was interrupted in 1950. Not because of us, but because of citizens who certainly have this topic very interesting and should have heard that the transmission will be delayed. But, well, you do such things contrary to and such a bad Rules of Procedure, that it's no wonder. Before I begin to talk about this amendment, my colleague Radovanovic, I would like to ask you best not to deceive the MPs, as you tried with the amendments and Gordana Pop-Lazic and Dusanka Plečević, you cannot say – your amendment is accepted, when it stands - the amendment is not accepted. What you combined, that's your business, but the fact is that the amendments to the SRS, other than two, you didn't accept and don't spread that story about how you accepted most of our amendments. Article 4 The bill, which we propose to delete, I must quote, is interesting, says: "It prohibits the production, multiplication, storage, presentation, dissemination or any other way of using symbols to promote or justify the ideas, actions and actions of persons indicted or convicted before the International Criminal Tribunal, or persons convicted or accused of domestic crimes". This member, first of all, is completely illiterate. This, I must say, can only be written by some total legal ignorant and nealphabeta. And it's true that it's totally dilettaneous of this whole law, especially this member. We wrote in our explanation very briefly that this proposed solution does not respect the long-known and recognised presummation of innocence and that the proposal actually wants to change the will of Serbian citizens in relation to The Hague tribunal. And now what does that mean? When it comes to the presummation of innocence, in The Hague tribunal, which maximumly violates human and procedural rights, how much, at least formally, that presummation is recognised, and you are here introducing that those accused of some crime should not be allowed, that I do not repeat everything now, in any way propagating their actions and names. This kind of article can only be written by someone who is exclusively fascistally orientated. This is pure fascism, this member of the Fourth Proposal of this Law. I really can't believe you could have written a member like this under this title. You know that The Hague tribunal is unfavorable among Serbian citizens, you know the verdicts given in The Hague tribunal. Of course, you don't mind, but you do mind when the SRS organizes and promotes the book of its president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, when MPs, committee members, members of the party carry a badge with the party president, when at the meetings we wear flags with the image of our party's president. And you think there's a possibility that you can forbid it. You see, I now, as a graduate lawyer who knows how to obey the laws, tell you on behalf of all radicals that there is no law that can forbid it. You can arrest us, you can lock us up, you can kill us, but what goes past will carry a badge with the character of Vojislav Seselj. You liked it, didn't like it, it's really your personal problem. I don't mean personal, I mean the bill promoter. What's irony? That this law suggests a man who wanted to hang Slobodan Milosevic. That's what he said publicly, all the media transmitted, so it's not paraphrasing. He said something about a candelabra, right, Momo? Yeah. The man who asked to ban the SRS, the man who said, played with the children and made the calendar of the Duke's Republic, the man who broke the board of RTS also in direct transmission. You remember all the swearings he said back then and how he did it. A man like that suggests a law like this. Since you've listed who falls under this law, I don't know, Mr. Radovanovic, whether these laws include those, if you find them, who write passwords in Vojvodina. And I've seen these passwords -- "as long as like, there's no republic." Maybe you'll arrest them and be punished under this law. I've read in the last issue of "The Seal" one legal and political analysis of the bill. The respected academician Prof. Kosta (respectful, yes, Miss Jerkov) Chavoski, who is not some master of some European sciences that no one knows what they really represent, under the heading 'Li Chanak proposes a great law', along with a comprehensive analysis of this bill, wrote, among other things, that this article only lacks a picture of Vojislav Seselj, that it is obvious that the law is passed because it is unbearable to you, that is, how he wrote – it is unbearable for little Canku to be laughed at by Vojislav Seselj from posters, from all walls where posters are possible. I just don't think I'd agree with Mr. Chavosky in this part, because I think it bothers little Boris more. Here's little Canak just an extended arm. That's why Democrats don't discuss this law. They're just gonna squirm and vote. The Socialists will probably vote, even though they said that if something doesn't change, they probably forgot that Canak asked for the hanging of Slobodan Milosevic, and you will probably conclude some majority that will pass this law. But all I'm gonna tell you is that by passing this law, if you pass this law, you're causing hate and all that's caused by hate. Now I even hear you've adopted the amendment, so it's not about the defendants anymore, it's only about the convicts. General Lazarevic was convicted, but never General Lazarevic for me, nor for Serbian radicals, will he be a war criminal. And we will never treat him as a war criminal, regardless of being declared by the same court war criminal who said that Haradinaj and Oric are not war criminals. If that doesn't tell you anything, gentlemen, not only to your proposings, but to all of you who are going to vote for this law, then indeed, especially for one part of the ruling majority, let it be an honor to have them come to their senses to press for, I don't know what number of pressures, such a law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21385	Proposer, Mr. Radovanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21386	The truth is, Radeta's colleague read Article 4 in that version that entered the procedure. That's what it said until it was adopted on our side, by the promoter, by a number of amendments. Article 4 of the proposal now states: "No production, multiplication, storage, presentation, expansion or any other way of using symbols to propagate or justify the ideas, actions or actions of persons for whom those persons are convicted of war crimes." All I'm asking is that we don't go down to that level to insult each other around a diploma or anything else. I don't think it's an object to appreciate whose weight it is and what else, we can do it elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21387	I would like to thank the rapporteur's representative. The word is Mr. Milisav Petronijevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21388	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be very brief, so that there is no confusion in the public – the SPS will support this law because everything that has been asked for has been amended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21389	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. Please make the comments appropriate. What I heard on this side, it's not right. You've heard well. Mr. Martinovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21390	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Radovanovic, and that's what Mrs. Olena Papuga tried to do in the principle debate, and it's just that there was supposed to be a printing error -- well, that's not what they wanted to say, but that's how it turned out, they had some completely different ideas. That, of course, is not true. All that was written in the original bill, it was supposed to go that way, according to Nenada Canka. But then it must have become clear to their coalition partners that it was too much, so the DS amendments a little lessened that original version of this law. Otherwise, the bill is written in style – if it passes, it passes. If it passes, we'll put in the same basket and Nazism and fascism and neonasism and nationalism and neonationalism and national socialism and who knows what doesn't. Part of it, of course, did not pass, but the original idea of Nenada Chanka was to ban, above all, the use of any symbols that should be associated with Vojislav Seselj and the SRS. Now, when that didn't go away, Mr. Radovanovic pleaded justly that, behold, there was a mistake, a mistake, they didn't think so, etc. The real intention of the legislator is to discredit their main political opposition, which is the SRS. The SRS was the first to raise the issue of the unconstitutional statutes of Vojvodina, we were the first to say what the real intentions of Nenada Chanka were with the Statute of Vojvodina, so that, Mr Radovanovic, your explanations that you were allegedly in some confusion or that there was a printing error, simply not true. I can't understand that someone can make a printing mistake, so he says -- people who are accused or convicted of International Criminal Tribunal; or when you say that you want this law to suppress nationalism, and you allegedly wanted to say Nazism; or when you say neonationalism, and you wanted to say neonasism or national socialism, I don't even know which phenomenon in Serbia you're trying to contain. So, you've been foolishly and sloppyly writing this bill, not knowing the elemental things about phenomena such as Nazism and fascism. Your party chief, Nenad Canak, is, of course, aware of that. He's elegantly pulled himself out of this whole discussion, forced you to swallow bitter pills here, but it just testifies that personally Mr. Nenad Canak doesn't appreciate you very much. If he appreciated you, he would come, this great anti-fascist, to defend this anti-fascist law, and he would not have escaped from the National Assembly, both in principle debate and in discussion in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21391	Representative for the Proposer, Mr Radovanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21392	The truth is, I didn't mention for a moment that there was any mistake. It is clear to everyone in the hall and to those who are aware that the final draft of the law has taken place that the smallest common denominator with the vast majority of parliamentary groups, including the SRS, has been sought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21393	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 4 of the amendment, paragraph 5, Article 142 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted to the Committee on Justice and Administration. Proposers have accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? Yeah. ) Mr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21394	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I simply cannot go over this amendment and through this famous member of the 4th. I would just like to remind the legislators of the fact that people such as Milan Martic, Vladimir Lazarevic, Mrksic, Sljivancanin, etc. are convicted before The Hague tribunal. I'd really like you, Mr. Radovanovic, to prove to me when these people advocated any fascist ideas. When did you hear from Milan Martic, from Veselin Sljivancanin, from Mrksic, any Serb who has been indicted and convicted in The Hague tribunal, that he has exhibited any fascist, Nazi, neo-Nazi or similar ideas? The persons indicted in front of The Hague tribunal have nothing to do with these ideas. With these ideas, Mr Radovanovic, ties have other faces, but against which The Hague tribunal did not press charges. With fascism and Nazism, he had a relationship with Franjo Tudjman. With fascism and Nazism, of course, and religiously, he had ties to Ali Izetbegovic, and now his son Bakir Izetbegovic, the candidate for the president of the Party of Democratic Action, says - it is normal that most Serbs are indicted before The Hague tribunal, when we Bosniaks committed only 7% of the crimes in BiH. I wonder what instruments he's gotten to that percentage. So, Mr. Radovanovic, you've been fooled by someone fat. You don't seem like a malicious man to me, but someone here has forced you to defend things that have nothing to do with common sense and science and historical facts even the least.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21395	Thank you. On the basis of Article 5, paragraph 5, Article 142 is amended as follows: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted to the Committee on Justice and Administration. Proposers have accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Would you like a word, Mr. Kragovic? No, I don't. No one wants a word. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted to the Committee on Justice and Administration. Proposers have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Martinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21396	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported, in fact, by amendment to Article 6, which has been submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. See the senselessness of Article 6(3). He says, I am now reading the integral text of the bill's proposal: "The fascist organisations or associations of Article 2 of this Law are considered those organisations or associations which, in their statute or programming documents, aphirmic or wider neo-nationalist, fascist or national-socialistic ideas and procedures." This is linguistically pointless. I don't know how it can spread. I've heard ideas spread, thoughts spread, attitudes, etc., but procedures spread, I haven't heard of it yet. Otherwise, I'd like to remind Mr. Radovanovic of one fact. I don't know if, Mr. Radovanovic, you've ever been to Rome. If the National Assembly ever sends you to a delegation in Rome, visit any market there. I guarantee you, at every market in Rome, a little bigger, you can buy a Benito Mussolini T-shirt. No one in Italy thinks of banning something like that. Why? Because these hotheads, who really believe in the truth, are Benito Mussolini's ideas, in Italy very little. It's exotic there. That's where these people laugh when they wear shirts like that. The other day, a German was convicted for taking his head off Adolf Hitler's waxy figure in a German town. The German court estimated that he committed a crime because he defiled an art. So the thing with Nazism, with fascism, with symbols, is not as simple as you want to present. You're too one-sided in that political struggle of yours. When you say: T-shirts, symbols, badges, paintings, etc., you have in your head T-shirts with the image of Radovan Karadzic, Vojislav Seselj, Ratko Mladic, etc. You don't know that today in Europe you can freely buy T-shirts, badges, symbols of authentic fascist World War II movements. Go to Croatia, you can freely buy pictures of Ante Pavelić, the letter "U", it is freely worn in Croatia. The other day, Croatian television on the Second Programme directly broadcast the Ustasha rally from Blyburg, which was blessed by the competent Catholic archbishop and read the greeting messages of the highest state officials of Croatia, the ones you welcome in Belgrade with a red carpet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21397	The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 7 of the amendment, paragraph 5, Article 142 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted to the Committee on Justice and Administration. Does anyone want a word? (Yes, Proposer.) Here you go, Mr. Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21398	Thank you very much. I have reported for the amendments to Miss Elena Christmas-Talian, just to say that both the Proposer and the Committee have accepted this amendment with this explanation and is in the current proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21399	Mr. Martinovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21400	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, will now hear that Nenad Canak and his anti-fascist party are fighting such dangerous phenomena as fascism, Nazism, neonacism, etc. Article 7 states: "The fine between 5,000 and 50,000 dinars will punish a natural person who violates the prohibition of Articles 2, 3 and 4 of this law." It's the same as when you passed the Anti-discrimination Act. You kill 100,000 people as genocide, and then you're responsible for a violation that will be prosecuted by that famous trustee of yours for protection against discrimination. Article 8: "If the prohibition laid down in Article 2 of this Act executes a natural person as a member of a registered organisation or association, a fine of 100,000 dinars to a million dinars will be punishable for the violation of that organisation, or association". Find me, Mr. Radovanovic, a country in Europe, an EU member who has similar legislation to this, which fights Nazism and fascism with criminal sanctions. There's really no such example. This bill of law is really funny. Sometimes I wonder if there's even a point in wasting words on what's been put on these two sheets of paper and wearing some name for which I, until today, until this moment, am not exactly what it's called. What is the name of this bill? Is it what you called him or what Bosko Ristic named him? I would like to know in what text you will adopt this bill, with what name and under what name this law will be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". God forbid it's published with a third name.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21401	Thank you. Mr. Radovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21402	As for the amount of these penalties that the Proposer has proposed in this bill that is before us today, we would, believe me, go safely with higher amounts, but the roof laws of the Republic of Serbia, I hope nothing new to say to Mr Martinovic and the other lawyers in this room, would not allow greater amounts, and as far as the other penalties are concerned, this is the subject of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, and I hope that he too will be changed very quickly and include fascism and neonacism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21403	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21404	I would really like to hear it, Mr. Radovanovic, which is a roof law to suppress phenomena such as Nazism and fascism. If you mean the Law of Infractions, then you're really funny. If you think it's the same thing to throw paper on the streets, walk drunk or wet on the lawn and exhibit Nazism and fascism, then you are truly in great error. There is one, I would not call it a roof law, but a law that essentially fights these phenomena is the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. Whoever confesses national, religious and racial hatred will be punished by severe punishment, imprisonment. And that's the end of the story. If you want to fight consistently against Nazism and fascism or those, as you say, informal social groups, just consistently apply the Criminal Code, but equally to everything. Do not look for fascists only among Serbs, look a little left and right, there are also in other national and religious communities in Serbia. And the matter will be solved. And fighting criminal sanctions against Nazism and fascism, you know, that reminds me of that war between the Chinese and the Japanese around Manchuria, when the Japanese were shooting at the Chinese machine guns, and they were defending themselves with umbrellas.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21405	Pursuant to Article 8 of the amendment, Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted to the Committee on Justice and Administration. The proposer has accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21406	Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is painful to listen to these arguments by colleagues Radovanovic. I support Mr. Martinovic, who very clearly explains, as a top lawyer, that these things cannot be resolved by criminal sanctions. A clear distinction should be made between criminal and criminal proceedings. Obviously, this law is so badly done, it doesn't even need to be commented. I support Mr. Martinovic, who you're trying to make a really big argument of trying to convince, but it's not worth it. Since the start of this debate, New Serbia's parliamentary club has practically realised that the applicant of the law has practically missed the topic. It just seems like this, Madam President, to me that even the one who activated this topic and you who put this in the process are not at all in the topic. This simply reminds me of when, now June has come, the minors will summer, in school teachers should give a theme for the fourth written assignment "The Summer" and give it for example. "A fall in our city." So this is a completely declassified topic, and I absolutely don't see why this law should have even entered the procedure. If it was meant to be, I'm sure it's not like this. I really think you should have a good stomach to swallow something like this and vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21407	Mr. Spasojevic, your association with the teacher may be pleasant, but I must tell you that the Assembly has decided what will be on the agenda, not the president. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word again has Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21408	My metaphorical statement, Madam President, was not intended to offend you. I was talking about a missing topic here and I gave you a good suggestion, if you understand me, that this is simply some topic that is completely off topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21409	Thank you. Mr. Martinovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21410	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it will be really interesting to watch the vote on this bill when MPs DS, LSV, SPS and SPS vote for it. Today, Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, replicating one of my presentations, said that he was bringing the computer here in time to the National Assembly to show us how many MPs and how many we are, and to call on some parliamentary mandates, etc. But here, you don't need a computer, just use common sense. Find me a man in Serbia, a Serbian citizen who voted for a party coalition founded by Slobodan Milosevic, Nenada Canka, Zoran Djindjic and Vuk Draskovic. How will you join Draž Mihajlovic, Josip Broz Tito and Nenad Chanka, I would like to see it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21411	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 9 of the amendment, paragraph 5, Article 142 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted to the Committee on Justice and Administration. The Proposer has accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of the bill in particular, does the proposing representative, MP Radovan Radovanovic, want to give the final word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21412	Thank you very much. It's pretty late, it's been working a long time today, so I'm literally going to do two sentences. Today, not much is spoken of, especially by the people who represent the opposition in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, about the law itself, but I have to point out that before this session, it means in the procedures that were done during the preparation of the session itself, that is to say, when the amendments were tabled, very much assistance, in order to come to such a definitive bill, the SRS, for which we thank him, as we thank the other parliamentary groups who have tried to find the least common denominator for this bill. I think he's coming through tomorrow, as far as we know. You noticed that my colleague Jerkov and I didn't play lawyers tonight, especially Nenadu Canka, because you know very well that he doesn't need it. He can defend himself, you'll get a chance to hear it, and you've been listening. Just for the end, I'm glad that, together with you, I was able to hear from my colleague Martinovic's mouth that he admitted at the end of his discussion that despite these phenomena, which he treats this law, he has. He said there are not only Serbs, but, normally, all others living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to this extent or to that extent, is irrelevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21413	Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in the voting day... (Alexander Martinovic reporting for word. What? When did you get back? Please, you didn't get back to me before I asked the motionary's representative. You've got four minutes left and something, but I really can't give you my word after I've made the motion. You really haven't answered. Please, when I asked the Proposer's representative if he wanted a word, there was no more discussion about the amendment and you have not reported any of the amendments. The last amendment was the amendment of Mr. Sreta Peric, whom no one answered. Say one sentence, but it's past the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21414	I really don't know why you're doing this. I haven't yet used my four minutes as an authorised representative of the SRS on this agenda. And nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say that, when the motionary's representative declares, the debate is over. The debate is over when all those who have the right to discuss it take advantage of their rights. I didn't take advantage of my right, so you couldn't conclude the debate. You have a congregation majority to vote on this caucus bill and I can't stop you from doing it, but let us at least say something on this subject. Mr. Radovanovic said that we have somehow helped him adopt or come up with some final version of this bill. We didn't. As far as we're concerned from the SRS, God forbid this miracle of the law has never been found in the congregation procedure. But, Mr. Radovanovic, what I had to tell you, I'll say in these few seconds. Suddenly Canak got out of the art of not talking about this bill. You say, "He can defend himself, he can explain his own attitudes." He does, but only when he's on a TV show, when there's no other talkers and when he can talk about what he wants. And when he needs his political opponents to look into the eyes and cross the arguments, then he flees the National Assembly and pushed you, who absolutely did not convince me that this law is good, but I think you have not convinced any average citizen of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-28-0.u21415	Mr Martinovic, member of 144, says – when the draft law is completed in particular, the right to the final word is given by the proponent, or the authorised representative. I have applied this member and it is clear that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I gave you my word because, simply, I think you're tired and we're all tired of a hard day. I figure there's probably a little tired after all. You didn't respond in time and you didn't answer. It wasn't a problem at all to take advantage of those four minutes. In the end, you used them. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Let me conclude a review of the draft law in particular and inform you that, after we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly in the voting day will decide on the draft law in principle, details and general. Thank you for your cooperation. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00, I said. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. On the basis of official records of the presence of Members of Parliament, 107 MPs are present at this time. For the exact identification of the number of MPs in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 100 MPs are present in the hall, that is, more than one third of the MPs are present, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Zoran Shami, Mladen Grujic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. We move to the 61st point of the agenda: – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on radio-fission (single) Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law before I conclude the review of the draft law in particular, does the proposing representative, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. Since the National Assembly concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of the Sixth Session of the First Regular Session in 2009, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 29 May 2009, starting at 10:30, as Voting Day, and voting time on all agenda points of the 6th session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. So we vote at half 11.
