ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u18985	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the fourth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record, I find that the sittings are attended by 104 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The electronic system has established that 84 MPs are present in the hall, and I find that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u18986	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, I spoke in the previous days about the fact that the special reservation "Tsarska Bara" was given to the management of the private fishing land "Ecka", and that this reservation is located 17 kilometers from Zrenjanin. I also talked about the fact that local self-government is a user of 60% of the territory of the "Tsar Bar" reserve, so it is listed in all public books. It is therefore entirely illogical that management is given to a private fishing land. However, that would not be a big problem, either, if the fishing industry were to perform the function given to it by that management. It happens next – from October to January of each year, this fishing land from its pond releases water into the "Czarska Bar", and with this water comes mud into the natural reserve. The mud has led to the situation that the Tsar Bar is slowly turning into a wetland area. An analysis was also carried out at the Life Quality Conference, which was held in Kragujevac, from May 13th to May 15th 2008, and was then found to be slowly turning the Carna Bar into a swampy area. I underline that this is a Ramsar area, which is on the UNESCO list of protected areas. In 2008, the Ministry of Nature Protection and Spatial Planning, in our knowledge, amounted to 22 million dinars to this natural reserve manager, the private company "The Fish Land". This way, I ask the question, is it true that 22 million dinars have been allocated to "The Imperial Bar" and that this mud was previously shipped to the "Tsar Bar"? If that's true, that means the state paid for something that was supposed to be done by the driver, and he didn't do it. Moreover, the controller continues to get the mud, across the water, to the "Czarska Bar", because it is necessary in the process of producing a fishing land. Therefore, every year, from October to January, fishing is being smudged, i.e. increasing the mud layer in the "Caris Bar". This is a situation similar to that of the natural protected good "Wet Mountain", so I ask the question – does the state, in one way or another, think that it can regulate the protection of natural reserves of natural goods? Does the state think that it charges any amount to use these natural reserves, such as "Caesan Bar", or "Wet Mountains", because, in our knowledge, you can access the "Caesan Bar" because it's a public good, if you pay 300 dinars, and it costs 800 dinars a boat a mile away? Obviously, some money is realised using the "Czar Bars", and nothing that would be adequate for good governance and protection of the area is provided. My question is, again, is it true that 22 million dinars for the protection of the Imperial Barr were paid during 2008 for the protection of the Tsar Bar?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u18987	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u18988	On the occasion of the parliamentary issue, which I addressed to the National Assembly on 30 April, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr Rasim Ljajic, I have an addition, given that I have not received an adequate answer, and I have to extend that question. It is about the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, more specifically, director of the Directorate for Gender Equality, Natalija Micunović, better known as the daughters of Prof. Dragoljub Micunovic, at a meeting in the Serbian Palace on the issue of gender equality, held on February 25th, where Kosovo was presented as a state, as one of six states whose right of equality is being considered. Mr Ljajic said it is normal to consider the state of gender equality in six republics, because it is about republics created by the former SFRY, and he was telling the truth. Namely, I have a contribution here from this seminar, where it is explicitly said that it is a state of equality in six countries: Albania, BiH, Kosovo, the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia, and on page 18, a very clear issue of gender equality in the state of Kosovo, and on page 19, in the state of Serbia. At this seminar, apart from Mrs Natalija Micunović, as director of this agency, i.e. the Directorate for Gender Equality within the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, whom Mr Ljajic uniquely identified as a celebrity, three other representatives of the same Directorate, Ms Mira Markovic, performed, an incredibly familiar name, Mrs Vesna Jarić and Kristijan Pavlovic. My question is does Mr Ljajic think Kosovo is an independent state? Will the rest of the government be fenced from this attitude and what will be done to ensure that never again the representatives of our government and representatives of the Ministries, at a small door, recognise the fake state of Kosovo in the territory of the Serbian state? On this occasion, I think it would be good and I will make this material available to media representatives and MPs who are interested, and to you, Madam President of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u18989	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u18990	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has been 15 days since I asked a few questions to individual ministries and their ministers, but I have not received any answers to this day. I draw attention to their obligation to do so, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If they have not done so by now, please, Madam President, warn them of the business obligation they have to the MPs. On Thursday, at a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where parliamentary issues and answers to the Government of Serbia were on the agenda, I applied, and as the 11th speaker, I did not turn up to address the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and ask him several questions. I'm taking that opportunity today. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia will remain remembered that none since the Prime Minister, and soon to be a year, has visited his southern province. It will also remain remembered that the government, whose president, the 2009 budget has reduced 35% compared to the 2008 budget. It is also remembered that the KIM Ministry has developed a strategy for the sustainable survival and return of Serbs and non-Albanians to KIM, with a budget rebalancing set aside 185,000 for this purpose. The KIM ministry developed a work plan for 2009. In theory, the plan is good, based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Ministrys, Resolution 1244 and "co-operation with the UN Civil and Military Mission on KIM (UNMIK and KFOR), on the basis of Resolution SB 1244, the maintenance of permanent international contacts with participants in the international negotiating process in determining the future status of KIM, as well as other dealings with a certain law". Not one word mentions Mission Eulex, which we have accepted, nor the six-point plan Belgrade -- Ban Ki Moon, which you presented to us, Serbs living in KIM and Serbian citizens, as a major diplomatic victory. UNMIK is no longer in KIM, EULEX has largely implemented the Martti Ahtisaari Plan and is creating an independent state of Kosovo, and the DSS and I have personally personally warned you of the consequences of accepting the Eulex mission. As a consequence, we have a very tense and difficult, complex situation in the Brdjana settlement in Kosovo Mitrovica, where EULEX is the eighth time in a row against Serbs who protest there throws a bomb, throws rubber bullets and throws tear gas at Serbs who protest and seek reciprocity when it comes to the return of Albanians to the north and Serbs to the south. On this point, I'm going to ask three specific questions to the Prime Minister. First question: how do you think, Mr. President, to implement the Sustainable Survival and Return Strategy on the ground of Serbs and non-Albanians? Secondly, what about the Agreement at six points in Belgrade -- Ban Ki Moon, will it be realised when? Question 3: Did any of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or the Ministry of KIM visit the Brdjani settlement in Kosovo Mitrovica? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u18991	Thank you. This way, I remind the Government and the Ministers of Certain Resolutions that they are obliged to answer questions within a specified time period of two weeks, so 15 days. The word has been made by the People's MP, Ms. Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u18992	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, ladies and gentlemen, just to remind you that, even if we from the SRS, we have not received a single reply within the deadline from the resolution ministers, ministries or prime minister. We find that inadmissible. Honestly, it's not clear how we can force them to just respect what their obligation is. The only thing we can do is ask the same question every two weeks. What seems to be very current and important for the state of Serbia, and especially for the SRS, we expect complete information when it comes to the announced visit of US Vice President Joseph Biden, who is well-known to the SRS and the Serbian people, even very recognizable. What we learn, unfortunately, from the media alone, is that on the agenda of the meeting, four topics will prevail very important for Serbia, too, very important for the SRS. We'd like the foreign minister to send detailed information to the SRS Parliament Club. What we also learn from the media is that the first topic will be the US's relationship to Pristina and the US's relationship to Belgrade, that is, the Kosovo issue. Honestly, we do not understand how the Kosovo issue can now be talked about, given that Mr Biden has said more than plastically and very transparently that the status of an independent KIM is a non-refundable fact. The second point, which is very important and is on the agenda of the future meeting, is the preservation of peace and stability, due to the assessment that the Balkans are moving slower towards the EU, as a result of the economic and institutional crisis within the EU. Finally, the truth after such a long time. So, the EU's accession path, defined by the ruling coalition, is so slowed down, is not the fault of Parliament, the SRS, the opposition's obstructions, as represented in the regimeal media, but institutional crises within the Union itself and stopping the accession process. The third topic, as we learn from the media, will be economic topics, which are also very important for the state of Serbia and the Serbian people, but we don't know anything about it. The fourth topic, which is also very important for the SRS, given that we have submitted an initiative for a session to be attended by resolution ministers a while ago, concerns the participation of the Serbian state in world peace operations. So, and now we learn from the media that as the fourth topic of the agenda meeting, there is co-operation in the area of security. It is no secret long ago that the United States is interested in the contribution Serbia can make to participating in peacekeeping missions around the world. The SRS considers it entirely politically incorrect and inadmissible to hold such an important meeting, and it appears that this visit at the highest possible level, the first after so many years, which came after the inauguration, so Serbia's participation, thank God, from NATO maneuvers at the Russian border, also, following the departure of the head of the US diplomatic mission, one year before the deadline, and after the apparent cooling of relations between the Russian Federation and the United States, Serbian parliament MPs are reporting only on the basis of media writing. So we expect detailed information, we hope it will arrive before Mr. Biden comes to Serbia, but we will be persistent and regularly repeat this issue. Also, the question we asked, and we didn't get an answer, the only thing we can do now is ask the same question again, as regards the state of unemployment in Serbia today. What we are interested in is the structure of unemployment and what does the picture look like in the cities and municipalities of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u18993	The word has been made by the People's MP Tabakovic Mr. Jorgenka.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u18994	Whenever I think I'm no longer going to use the MPs' institute, because the government is deaf about the questions we ask, something that's worth the attention to happens again, and here's another attempt, I hope it won't be unsuccessful. My question is: why can displaced people from KiM no longer verify their health books in the places where they are registered, but instruct them to verify health books in Belgrade? Does anyone seem reasonable and likely that the displaced, who do not, mostly, have the means to live, have the money to leave and verify a health book in Belgrade? The practice, which I am familiar with, is in Novi Sad, and I have been informed and I know that the practice that is applied in other Serbian cities is valid for more than 15 days. I ask the Government, is fighting for KIM just fighting for international law, for borders, for territorial integrity, for all our sanctities, for cemeteries, for our memories, or does it mean fighting for a man, and does that man, who needs to go to a doctor, and can't go because he's not certified a health book, worth less or at least as much as what we all fight for? If there are shelters and safe houses for the endangered categories of women, children, Roma, are Serbs and non-Serbs who are expelled and have to go there's a counter in the Social Security Office where they're reported, where they can verify the health book and go to the doctor? I would really ask the government to answer the question of how this is possible and on what basis is the practice, which is evident?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u18995	I thank you, Batic Dr. Vladan has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u18996	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first question is, when will the government review the functioning of the National Park "Wet Gore"? It's an unprecedented case, filled with irregularities and abuse. The National Park of Mokra Gora is a state in the country, and in that country, Emir Kusturica has its own autonomous area. It's really embarrassing. This is an eclectic example of the most drastic conflict of interest. The man is director of the National Park, and in that national park and owner of a private ski resort, a private film town, and who knows what else. And then, brazenly and arrogantly, it tells us that we should be happy to breathe the oxygen that it produces. Like some kind of ago or escape, and then Oliver Dulic shows up, and again, brazen and arrogantly insults thousands of people. Because of these people, as DHSS MP, I'm asking this question, that it's all wonderful and wonderful that they've nationalized six thousand acres of land. So Serbia is not only the only country in Europe that has not passed the law on denationalisation, but also the state that nationalised six thousand hectares of the country in the 21st century, because these people cannot freely dispose of their private property. It's called, in translation, nationalization, so that a man could do whatever he wanted, because he was calling from the stands outside this building when the American embassy burned down. I guess it's a favor to him for what he did back then. The second question is for the Minister of Infrastructure, but I would ask him to try to be serious, not to tell fairy tales, to consider a small topic concerning, of course, budget inspections, and construction inspections, regarding enlargement and reconstruction of so-called. Valjevsko path at the route Obrenovac – Ub, 12 km long. This seems a little trivial and prosalytic, but for the citizens of Obrenovac, it's not uninteresting. So, on the basis of the 2005 contract and some 2006 annex on the joint involvement of the famous Directorate for the Ways of the Republic of Serbia and the Public Enterprise for the Construction of Obrenovac, it is agreed to build those ten and later two others, to reconstruct 12 km times. There are no defined deadlines in the contract, no criminal provisions, no giro accounts to which the Public Undertaking for the Construction of Obrenovac is due to pay that money. Otherwise, the value of the works is 160 million. The public company does not have a supervisory authority, so these works are started in principle – holding water until the masters leave. It's been done about six miles, asphalt is as thick as when children put on bread and fat or bread and jam, it's about as thick as asphalt. It was winter this year, it all fell apart. I ask that you examine what was done and what ways, criteria, standards, where the money is and who took the money. Those six kilometers and half of what was designed and was to be done by contract, it fell apart. Now they're digging, like, little wells, a foot and a half, 15-20 places, supposedly, they're asking for oil. There's also some kind of curb that shouldn't exist at all. It all fell apart. That other half wasn't built. I'm just asking him to reconsider where the money went. Will, when and who will do what is necessary, in order for normal traffic to work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u18997	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the MPs: Snezana Sedlar, Jelena Travar-Miljević, Nikola Krpić, Meso Omerović and Munir Poturak. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for meetings, apart from the proposing representatives, to be attended by Ljiljana Juver, an assistant minister of economy and regional development, and Tatjana Prijic, head of the Department of Economy and Regional Development Department. We move to the 27th point of the agenda – PROPOST OF THE PROFESSION OF PROFESSIONAL REHABILITATION AND WORK OF THE PERSONS WITH INVALIDITE (in particular) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the Members of the people: Gordana Rajkov, Snezana Stojanović-Plavić, Aleksandra Ilic, Aleksandra Janković, Zlata Djerić, Ljiljana Miladović, Jelena Budimirović, Zoran Babić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Miroslav Petković, Milica Vojić-Marković, Jovan Palalić, Vesna Pošinić, Radjanović, Željić, Radića Jožić Žilić, Mirić Živić, Žažić, Milan Vrić, Vrić, Vrićić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić Žramić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrićić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić Ivan, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vr., Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, V National MP Petar Jojic, in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 9 of the 5th and 6. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 1, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u18998	The Honored Presidency, Mrs Kalanovic, the honourable fellow MPs, the DSS Group has submitted a number of amendments to the proposed text of the law and our support for this law depends on the adoption of these amendments. Unlike the ruling majority MPs who submit amendments to the debate in particular, the defences and amendments and criticise the proposed text of the law, and in the voting day support such a bad bill, we have to act differently and we will indeed approach the debate responsibly in the details of this law. The fact is that these are very important laws, and the one we talked about yesterday, and the goal is, above all, to protect a very sensitive and numerous category of residents and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What we rarely do, it is to intervene already on the 1st member of the bill, but we think it is perfectly normal that, if the law regulates this matter and its name, it is – Proposed law on professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, it is in the first article that this law regulates, above all, professional rehabilitation, and then all other areas. In the government's explanation, we were given the view that the concept of the law was different, that the application of nomotechnics and other legal rules was differently governed by these areas. We think it's a good thing, first of all, to point out, that we're just starting from a professional rehabilitation, and that all the other areas that this law regulates in this second order are being listed. This is not the technical correction of the Bill's proposal, but we think it's essential and thus to show how important this area is that we regulate, that this professional rehabilitation gets the same meaning as it should have with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u18999	Thank you. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Pesic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs. Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19000	I've already spoken quite extensively when we discussed this law in principle. I'm going to use this amendment to Article 1 to talk about all the amendments I've made and, in some ways, to withdraw some amendments. Let me remind you that on some of the solutions that are important to persons with disabilities, we have agreed with representatives of G17 plus to support the amendment jointly in Parliament, and I have heard that the amendment has been accepted. I think that's Article 44(6). My objections were, when it came to Article 1, to the assessment of workability. We signed, to remind you, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and now we have a ratification to come. I hope that this convention will also be ratified, which strongly insists that when it comes to people with disabilities, it is no longer a velfer, meaning social protection, but, in fact, it is a matter of rights. The whole of this Convention is set on an integral basis, and it is about integrated education, integrated health care, free life, free environment, involvement in an open economy. So it really started from the definition of discrimination, not what this disability is about, but in the experience of someone who is discriminated against. With that in mind, there was a question of working ability and assessment of work ability, and that was what I asked in Article 1. I must say that I will also use the time of my parliamentary group, so that I may conduct a full debate on the matter. So, it's about the assessment of working ability, and we have in Article 4, it seems to me, to be realized, determines the status of a disabled person, so we somehow considered, in a conversation with individual NGOs, that it might be enough to determine the status of a disabled person; not to assess the working ability, but rather to assess the support needed by a person with disabilities, instead of going through one process that was discriminatory in itself and which led to selection and discrimination, because these evaluations of the work ability, as a rule, applied medical criteria. The population is now that it is not so much a problem in the assessment of working capacity, but in those criteria relating to Article 8 and Article 9. I put it on one and another member of the amendment, and I asked that article 9 be deleted. So Article 8 shows these criteria. There is nowhere in the European documents, nor in this convention that I mentioned, nor in other latest documents on the rights of persons with disabilities, these criteria on the assessment of disability. Of course, I also pointed out last time that it was very difficult to assess and go out on these commissions only once, that these were, very often, people who did not have enough communication, who did not have enough education, and that these medically one-time labour assessments could be selective, discriminatory and thus eliminate people with disabilities from employment opportunities. We have people whose work capacity is 100% declared disabled, and they can work. Let's say someone in a wheelchair and they're 100% disabled, but they can work. It is said to remove these criteria and to discuss more about what kind of support such people with disabilities are needed, rather than talking about selection and these criteria. Article 8, which I also criticised, is said: "... covers medical, social and other criteria." In particular, these medical criteria have been very patternically applied to these commissions, and I believe that there are some acquired interests of these commissions and fees that are being given to survive somehow. The last time we discussed this issue, I was promised that sublegal acts would try to reform these committees and be a continuous process of evaluation, i.e. the necessary support for people with disabilities to rehabilitate, train, and then get a job. These would be my amendments, which I have submitted, from Articles 1 to 8 to 9, by drawing attention to Article 4 so that it would be good to say which support would be needed, but there is still an unresolved question. I participated last week in a seminar, a regional seminar on the application of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and there was a lot of debate on this issue of business ability. So, many disabled persons, especially those with certain mental problems, are deprived of their business ability, and then, when they are employed, they have big problems how to solve it. There it was said, those who made this convention, that it must be treated as a person who has a certain advisor, as I would, if I wanted to do some legal work, take a lawyer to advise me. Such support could be provided to such persons. However, this issue has not been resolved by this law, it has not been touched at all how the problem of the taken-off business skills has been addressed, and no solution has been given in this law so that this could be overcome and resolved, especially since we all know that parents are very often under great pressure from the Centre for Social Work to take away their children's business ability. After that, they see that it was a big mistake, but it's one pressure, especially if it involves callers, who put such pressure on their parents. I would also like to say that I have submitted the amendment and when it comes to who can start all the work centres. You're going to tell me if the government, I don't have it now, has accepted that the work centres can also establish NGOs, the private sector. I think it's accepted and that's good. There's something else I'd like to say about article 43, to finish my presentation. We've made an objection to the "Work Centre" institution, which allows for the therapeutic employment of people with disabilities. Since the possibilities of a person with disabilities are now turned into rights, we felt that it was not good to talk about work as a therapeutic process, but this status itself speaks of that these are not sick people who need to be treated through this therapy, but rather of employment as everyone else. It's not therapy, it's work, like any other person, who needs to be validated through a work contribution, not through therapy, no matter how therapeutic it affects that person. It's also the rest of some discriminatory approach to people with disabilities, when they get hired, so we threw that word out. So, hiring at work centres as a work-therapy activity, we asked for this "therapy" to be thrown out, because it's not therapy, it's working in such institutions. Given that, in the right bill, which we have introduced with colleagues from G17 plus, it seemed like the employment of disabled people is returning to these institutionalised forms, instead of going as far as possible in the open economy, into these inclusive, integrated approaches, which now require everything, including our national strategy, and even other documents in this area, it has nevertheless been achieved. Now we need to determine, I believe that the colleagues who worked on it from G17 plus to confirm whether the Government has indeed accepted in Article 43(6) that employment, as a working-therapy centre, is leftover, the activity of persons with disabilities, can be provided in the establishment of social protection for the accommodation of users and employers, through the public centre, under conditions and in the manner prescribed by the minister responsible for social policy affairs. In other words, what has been my criticism, that employment, in addition to insisting on working centres, is institutionally closed engagement of disabled people, where people with mental disabilities are mostly thought of, and in an open economy. First, we insisted that this be the term 'open economy', however, in the conversation with Mrs Gordan Rajkov, we found that the employer indicated this and that it was then in accordance with Article 1, which explains the basic provisions, where the employer like the one who represents this open economy, and it was retained that the working centre could intervene, or help hire in the open economy. I ask the Assembly to accept this amendment. I hear the government has accepted this amendment. Together, we could contribute to this kind of correction being adopted, and probably, at some other time, we could do some more steps forward, which have not been done at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19001	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19002	Thank you. I want to explain a little bit what we were talking about, what my colleague Pesic was talking about. I want to thank all those who participated actively in the work on this law and amendments, which, I believe, have greatly contributed to making the law even better than it was, and it has been good, because it has been expected for many years from people with disabilities, in order to enable them to become more active in the world of work. We have worked really hard to talk very openly about this, because this is not a political issue, this is a matter of interest to the citizens of Serbia, and that for those who, I would say, belong to groups that are more sensitive, and we have achieved what was possible at this point. Of course, there are requirements, such as amendments proposed by Mrs Pesic, whose law can be even more modern and even better. But at this point, it wasn't possible. I believe that, with the general agreement of a large number of persons, i.e. the Association of Persons with Disabilities, and the Ministry of Labour and Employment, i.e. the economy and regional development, as well as the Ministry of Social Affairs, including the Government's legislation, with many amendments, we have managed to reach one solution that is possible and that is in line with our legislative system. We've made great progress, and that's that people with disabilities, and that's people with mental disabilities, so children with developmental difficulties, who have been deprived of their business ability, who are categorized as children who are unable to get school and work, can work in so-called. open economy. The term 'open economy' was not possible, for a simple reason, the lawyers warned us that the term did not know the legal system and 'employer' was the only possible solution. It is true that there are dilemmas as to whether persons with reduced business capacity can work. Lawyers say there's no dilemma, that they can't work, and that's why it was necessary at this point, before there's been a change in other laws that solve these problems, to introduce labour centres as one mediator of the possibility of these children being employed, to get the opportunity to work. I've already said they're already working in some companies and it's a practice that has passed the laws. It is a practice that has been going on for five years, and this law has allowed this practice to continue, not to be endangered and possibly improved. I think that's very good. I say once again, I thank all those who had the understanding to translate life into law. I think that's what we all need to do in the future. Only at this point was it possible to be a work-therapy activity and to take place through working centres. That's what's been possible for now. Why couldn't it have been different? Because the business ability, that is what Mrs Pesic insisted on, the taken-off business ability and the take-off of her business ability, unfortunately, is not the subject of this law. It is the subject of some other laws, such as the Family Law and the Labour Act. These are laws that we should possibly change when we talk about the business ability of a person with mental impairment. I hope that when these laws are in the congregation, we will seriously consider how we can solve this problem. It is true that people with disabilities, especially people with mental disabilities, have so far, unfortunately, not had a very clear system in all areas and agreed to suit them to the best extent. I believe that since we have started to deal seriously in this country in recent years with people with disabilities, this will lead to a situation that will allow them to participate fully in social life. Finally, as for the assessment of work ability, I am aware that there are dilemmas there and it is true that some associations have pointed to that. However, I would like to give an example of life. Last Saturday I spoke to the citizens of Leskovac and a young man came in who, unfortunately, has damage that was acquired during his life, was not innate. He's perfectly capable of schooling, there's no mental damage, it's a physical damage resulting from the disease. He's never been employed, he hasn't gone out on any disability commission, and he simply doesn't have the status of a disabled person. Mladić came to ask me if he would be able to achieve the benefits of this law, as I would say, would he be able to hire as a disabled person and thus achieve some possibility of easier employment? Why? Because he has one hand to be taken away and he can't compete with everyone else in getting a job on a regular basis. So unless there was this assessment of working ability, he could not be regarded as a person with disabilities and could not achieve the benefits that this law will result in for people with disabilities. However, I must agree that it is true that the commissions so far have not worked in a completely satisfactory way and it is true that they have applied the medical model. It's true they've assessed what a person can't do, not what she can do. It is true that there are major problems and that the work of the commission must be handled in detail by sublegal acts. As far as I know, the Department of Social Affairs will be responsible. I am sure that we, as MPs, and I can say that this will certainly be done by a newly established assembly group that deals with children's rights, closely monitors the adoption of these acts, in order for the commissions to work in accordance with modern European trends, or assess what it is that a person can do, and not what a person cannot do, and that these commissions will have to go through serious training, in order to assess in a modern, modern and professional way the ability of persons with disabilities, their remaining working skills, and to guide them and advise them in the process of getting a job. We have much to do with this and other laws and, under this law, on sublaws, but I am sure that this law will contribute significantly to improving the situation of persons with disabilities and their employment, and that it, as it has been proposed, will, and especially now, after the correction of the amendments that have been adopted, be one modern, reforming, system law in this area, which has not been regulated so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19003	I thank Mrs Plassic for the very comprehensive and useful information. On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19004	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, ladies and gentlemen, finally a good opportunity to talk about such an important topic as professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities. I would disagree if it weren't a political issue, the parties are discussing it; every question here is political, but I hope that we will rise above these party differences and all work in favour of the group to which society is dealing with certain prejudices, which are bordered by phobias. I wish we'd had this information that Mrs Plassic-Stojanovic made before the debate began. I am quite certain that our participation would be more detailed and qualified. I hope this is the starting step where we're all going to go, so that these people really have a chance to live with a decent man's life, no matter where they are. However, the SRS, i.e. The SRS MP club tried to prepare for this topic, consulting and available data sources and most often using what are state sources and official information. What surprised me is in the light of this law, it did not surprise me, since I know the relationship of society to groups of people with these needs and people with disabilities or, in general, with groups that have some speciality. The state of consciousness is what it is and it's amazing that nothing has been done in the sense that this consciousness has changed a little. What surprised me is that there are no concrete data on persons with disabilities in the state of Serbia. Among other things, page 2 says people with disabilities have the same rights as other citizens, so they must have equal opportunities to achieve those rights. It concerns all citizens, regardless of any difference. It's a constitutional category that unfortunately is not respected in these cases. The strategy stressed that no institutions in the Republic of Serbia have data or databases on persons with disabilities. Based on research done, and there is a feasibility study to improve the employment of people with disabilities in the Republic of Serbia, which was carried out by the European Agency for Reconstruction in 2006, it is believed that about 700,000 people with disabilities live in Serbia, of which about 300,000 are working age, aged 15 to 65. The employment rate of people with disabilities is extremely low and is about 13%, which means that in a working relationship there are only about 21,000 persons. One of the specific objectives of the Strategy is to provide equal opportunities for the work and employment of disabled persons, with the development and application of system solutions based on needs and abilities. I'd like a colleague, especially from G17, and an authorised representative, to hear if the practice is in line with this? My concentration may have eased, but I don't think you've talked about it, Mrs. Plassic. I'm afraid it won't be a practice, especially in light of the financial crisis that many people are going to lose their jobs. Will employers really have an obligation to hire persons with disabilities? How will the law apply to all those who do not respect that obligation? On the other hand, we know that the state is trying to stimulate the opening of jobs for trainees, certain concrete subsidies, but that does not mean the obligation of the employer, when that deadline passes, to keep those people. In this case, we're talking about people with disabilities. So is there a plan of activity, in terms of transparency, how many people with disabilities really have? What is the educational, full, age structure? Does the state plan to make this world, which, unfortunately thanks to the institutions, is completely parallel to the world of other people, transparent and visible, because if you make it visible, then you can deal with it? Unfortunately, we have very little data, I think there's a problem with the media, too, and yet the state should take that first step. There are rare contents where, for example, we find out how people with disabilities really live, what their day looks like, what are the problems they're facing, what is the institution's attitude towards them. Speaking of the bill, what is of particular interest to the SRS, is how will the proposed law reform this area? In what way it will be possible to implement it to an optimal extent, and in order to be perfectly correct, this is an extraordinary opportunity to talk in this way and finally arrange such a difficult, chaotic and extremely painful area, especially from the perspective of people who are disabled in any way, or at least feel that way, and society has made a great effort to throw them off the margins. We'd like to have full information on what is going to be done in that sense, whether there are assumptions that will make good databases, so we'll be able to know, in cities and municipalities, what is the situation of these people. Why am I saying this? Because it's the first step in entering their world, because as far as I'm concerned, the state only has data on those people receiving certain compensations, and these are, again, a small percentage relative to the entire population of people with disabilities. What we would especially like to appeal to, of course, both relevant committees and institutions, and the media, is that it might not be bad for the sector dealing with this problem to start a media campaign that should bring together two worlds, one separate – persons with disabilities, and this other world, the world of the majority population, in terms of understanding the daily problems these people, unfortunately, encounter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19005	On Article 2, the amendment, together, was submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milisav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19006	The Honorable Presidency, Mrs Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS MPs tried to supplement Article 2 of this amendment. We ask that only one sentence be entered, which would include persons with disabilities in all the processes in which they decide on their rights and obligations. This obligation was also established by the Strategy to improve the position of persons with disabilities, adopted by the Assembly in 2006. We think it is good that, in the principles on which this law is laid, this sentence, which is, in short, the most significant requirement of persons with disabilities and their associations – is that, when it is decided on their rights, they are fully involved in all decision-making processes. We think it's good that in the principles of this law it's clear and defined.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19007	Thank you. On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordan Rajkov. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Pesic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 6, the amendments were submitted jointly by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) He has the word Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19008	Dear President, Minister Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are discussing a very important topic today. At the beginning of my presentation, I want to point out one thing that is already becoming the government's manner, which is that when discussing such important things, there is never a real minister. Here, yesterday we discussed the draft law on employment and insurance in the event of unemployment and Resolute Minister Mladjan Dinkic is missing. Today, too, when it comes to the draft law on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, with all due respect to Mrs Kalanovic's presence, when we present such arguments as are intended to fix this law, we want to hear the minister's opinion as well. Of course, we want to talk about it, and we want to work it out. This isn't the first case. In the previous period, we had a situation where the government, fulfilling its form, could not be objected to by business, sent by one of the ministers, who would write something down, listen to us, and then reportedly pass it on to the Secretary of Resort. The National Assembly never has a feedback on what the ministry and government's position is after the controversy in the Assembly on individual amendments. It is very good to remember, just yesterday's discussion, which was on the law on employment and insurance in the event of unemployment, and, regarding today's law, to see how this government and the resolution ministry sees this whole concept. On the one hand, yesterday's criticism was, when it comes to employment – that this is a very bad law, which aims to degrade a very important institution such as the National Employment and Elimination and Reduction of Rights for the Unemployed, i.e. the full exclusion of the National Service and the loss of its independence. On the other hand, today's law, which we are discussing and which is extremely important, and we need to make every effort to make it as good as possible, is, in our opinion, unsettled, and, most importantly, people with disabilities do not include in the most important stages of the decision-making that concerns their rights. I would define the reasons and our amendments in two groups. This refers to the amendment that my colleague Milica Vojić-Markovic and I have submitted to Article 6, which is – that a very clear order of priorities is established. You know, if the law says in its name that it is a law on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, then professional rehabilitation should be something that will be a priority before the employment process itself and, in general, a measure of employment of persons with disabilities. Professional rehabilitation is something that is very important for people with disabilities, which is a set of measures and activities to prepare and train people with disabilities for employment. It is truly amazing that the Government of the Republic of Serbia rejects this amendment. I would like to remind this occasion, when it comes to the DSS, our engagement and our contribution, our efforts are made when it comes to improving the situation of persons with disabilities, that during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities and the Strategy for improving the position of persons with disabilities in Serbia has been passed. The goal is for this law, which needs to be operationally and very concretely elaborated, to be truly in the function of persons with disabilities. We have made every effort through our amendments to correct this text of the law. Of course, the big question remains, we will talk about it through the other amendments – how will the Government, which shows this relationship in the debate itself, the absence of a resolution minister, at all have the will to implement such declarative provisions in this law? We don't think he'll have any will. This is one move, as is the law on employment, which was needed by this government in the economic crisis situation, to show, allegedly, a good will towards that structure of our population. We believe that this law has a number of problems that we need to fix with amendments, and it is amazing that the government ignores such elemental things – what is defined in the very name of the law, through its members, is quite different. So, the order of priorities and the inclusion of people with disabilities in decisions that concern them, that is, it's really amazing that the government ignores such elemental things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19009	On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Pesic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by the MP. Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mrs. Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19010	So what is the most common issue, as well as the latest research -- is that not only have people lost confidence in politicians, but they have lost trust in institutions in the first place. This is what only reflects the lack of a reform course and the devastating and wrong conduct of politics. Untrust in institutions should be sufficient signal for alerts for all those who exercise power at any level of organisation. Unfortunately, this is not a situation and we are now talking about a law that should give people with disabilities confidence in institutions that have not made sufficient efforts to learn more about them. If the National Employment Service thinks that a person with disabilities will come to her and report the problem she has, then it's a completely wrong approach, for a number of very obvious and obvious reasons. So there's obviously something wrong. I hope that this bill will at least run a way of thinking about bringing this difficult and painful problem closer and putting it before us; only when it's made visible can you think about how to improve the lives of these people. However, because of all those who are following this debate, or who will follow it, I suppose there are a lot of those who are interested in this legal package, what the SRS has come up with are concrete data. For example, it concerns the city of Nis and here we have information that about 1,000 people with disabilities are waiting for work. We are informed on the basis of the writing of information funds, and among other things, it is said that 1,000 people with disabilities registered in the National Employment Service branch are being given a real 'bingo' job, since, according to experience from disabled organisations, employers rarely decide to employ people with disabilities, despite a state subsidy of 120,000 dinars to provide jobs for these people. In the city authorities, they announce that, with the organisation of adequate prequalifications in the coming period, people with disabilities can get jobs in the city administration or public enterprises. We are afraid this will not be respected, these are data from the end of 2008, because, as you can hear, I am referring to what I just said, in practice such treatment of persons with disabilities that even with state subsidies, employers decide most rarely to employ such persons. Among other things, it is said, at least when it comes to the town of Nis, that in the organisations of people with disabilities, the number of their employees is estimated to be negligible, although unfortunately there are no precise data on the percentage of these people who work. The question is, were there projects that should have, at least through the start of the app project, created a database in a particular local community, which would have scanned the situation, or listed persons with disabilities? We don't have that information. We're hoping to get it. Also, according to the secretary of the Association for Cerebral and Children's Paralysis, Mr. Ivan Pekovic, employment of people with disabilities is an exception, there are only a few positive examples of employment lately. Despite an offensive opinion that doubts the working ability of disabled people, there are so many jobs they can do. We know all this, but the problem will be growing, given that the growing percentage of people who remain unemployed, that the financial crisis many employers use as an excuse to fire an increasing number of people, using this as an excuse for not hiring people with disabilities. We would like to hear what the state can do in this regard, whether there is a concrete strategy or a plan of activity for 2009, which I believe must be changed in view of the new circumstances, the decline in economic activity in the country. We also have a situation with the King. We are informed from the means of information, among other things, that Kingdoms with special needs are having a hard time getting to work. Of the 700 people with disabilities in the royal municipality, only two managed to get a job with a private. So there are also no recommendations, legal reliefs, nor college degrees, and it is obvious that consciousness is the biggest problem for the inclusion of people with disabilities in the working category of the population. What we can also see here, these are statements by Master Zivorado Veljovic. He's the president of the Disabilities Society and the head of the royal Hendikep Center. It also illustrates the opportunities for the Kingdom’s disabled when they try to enlist an employer for a job. Experiences are very difficult, somewhere and painful, but they themselves are not entirely clear whether they are prejudice or something else, but the fact is that these persons are difficult or in no way employed. According to his statements, 700 people with disabilities live in the King. There are 568 people with disabilities on the record of the royal labour market, including those with high expertise. What is amazing is that despite the subsidies and the intended penalties for employers, they are regularly deafening about something that should also be a legal obligation, i.e. a provision in the employment of persons with disabilities. We are not sure how this bill will force employers or competent institutions to deal more and more with the needs of persons with disabilities. We would like to hear how you think the law is implemented, given the already existing practice, which is not great at all. I guess I have very little time left for the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19011	You've got 11 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19012	This is the time I end only this data, and during the debate in particular, I will present to you and to the public, probably familiar, but to the public little known data obtained from a study dealing with persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19013	Thank you. On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19014	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a law on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, I have proposed an amendment to Article 7, by saying, in Article 7 paragraph 1, point 4, "accept", they add the words "expertly selected and offered". In the course of rehabilitation for the employment of disabled persons, it is important to ensure that mutual co-operation is appropriate and that the rights should come out of obligations. That is why it is very important to fully respect every individual and professional person with disabilities and to offer a professionally assessed and selected professional rehabilitation. It is the only way to make a commitment that certain rights of disabled persons must be respected. Such an imprecise and universal obligation creates the possibility to fulfill only formal law enforcement and bring to an incorrect situation people with disabilities who deserve greater attention and care from this society. In order to take advantage of the right given and to accept the obligation offered, which is an imperative character, it is necessary that the professional rehabilitation offered be chosen professionally, which is also a guarantee of success in achieving professional skills and adaptability. It is necessary to take into account and the necessary motivation of disabled persons, who need to be helped in training, professional guidance and the detection of personalaffinities. The adoption of this amendment, point 4 of Article 7(1), would read as follows: "A person with disabilities is obliged to accept the professionally selected and offered professional rehabilitation". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19015	On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Pesic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Pesic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19016	Dear President-in-Office, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities who I propose to amend in Article 9(3) and (4). The SNS considers it necessary to amend Article 9, i.e. paragraphs 3 and 4, and to set certain time limits for the handling of the authorities responsible for assessing the working capacity of disabled persons. Therefore, deadlines of 60 days or 15 days must be set to decide on the request, and for the reason we are well aware that the authorities of pension and disability insurance and employment organisations have long been deciding on the requirements that are within their jurisdiction for quite some time, so that they run unsuitably long deadlines until the applicant has obtained their basic rights. The position of the SNS is, when it comes to persons with disabilities, that the deadline should be shortened to the shortest possible extent possible and make this procedure urgent, and it is therefore necessary that the authorities which, under the proposal of this law, are empowered to assess their working ability have that kind of obligation and restrictions when it comes to decision-making. The deadline of 60 days for the adoption of findings, opinions and evaluations in respect of work capacity, for which the competent authority of an organisation competent in matters of pension and disability insurance is appropriate and quite sufficient to carry out such a comprehensive assessment. When the organisation in charge of employment is given that finding, it shall be left to the appropriate period of 15 days to reach a solution to the assessment of the work capacity. The time frames proposed are appropriate and quite sufficient, and I believe that this amendment should have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19017	On Article 9, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19018	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Mrs Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the DSS has submitted an amendment to Article 9, but before that I would like to say that the National Assembly is not a baker. We don't make buns and beads here, we make laws. We're not doing this job so the president of the National Assembly can go to the cameras and say that we've passed 50, 100 or 150 laws, but if we're considering a legal proposal, we're trying, I guess, to make it look as good as possible in practice. We've just intervened on this member of the law in that direction, so that he can bring certain results, which would immediately start to work. Of course we know that this area and the needs of people with disabilities regulate, practically, three ministries, but since ministers are from different parties, we often get the impression from the media that they do not talk to each other, do not communicate, we have suggested that the obligation to adopt acts on rights, costs, the way and the whole employment process of persons with disabilities is carried out by one ministry, in consultation with the relevant ministries for this area. I don't understand why this amendment hasn't been accepted, because, believe me, I have a disabled man in my family. I know very well how difficult it is to get their integration into society, to get jobs and to feel, at least a little, equal and equal with the majority population in the country of Serbia. I would like to point out once again a good example, this is the town of Cačak, who, once with a serious and thoughtful decision by local self-government, in collaboration with competent institutions, has allocated some funds to the budget and is actively involved in the employment policy of people with disabilities. In addition to removing all the barriers for disabled persons several years ago, by setting up ramps and on foot crossings, and in all significant institutions, we have allocated significant resources for their integration, I think that one ministry, in consultation and agreement with the relevant ministries, will do much better by doing this job, because if we wait for the three ministers to sit down to agree, I fear that it will take the adoption of this act and that this law will be another in a series of non-applicable laws passed by this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19019	On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by the MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by the MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19020	My amendment refers to the fact that Article 13, after Article 2, paragraph 3, which reads – prescribed conditions, criteria and standards for implementing measures and activities of professional rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, are regularly published in written and electronic means of information. In fact, people with disabilities should regularly be informed of all the measures taken to rehabilitate them. The means of information, which are available, should continuously transmit information on the prescribed conditions, criteria and standards for implementing the measures and activities of professional rehabilitation. In this way, society as a whole would be informed of the steps taken that our fellow citizens who have this problem can equally affirm themselves. In this way, it would also create a more positive atmosphere towards professional rehabilitation of people with disabilities. Persons with disabilities make up the largest and most endangered minority in the world, so that about 10% of the world's population lives with disability. It's over 650 million people around the world, and if members of their extended families are added to it, we come up with an amazing number of two billion people who live with disabilities every day. Unfortunately, for most people with disabilities around the world, shops, public buildings and traffic, and even information, are mostly out of reach. Continued handling of information issues for people with disabilities on criteria and standards for implementing measures and activities of professional rehabilitation, not campaign treatment, which is usually necessary both for informing the users themselves and for informing the entire population. It is very important that people who have no disability develop sensitivity and get information, because everyone at one point in their life is likely to experience disability due to illness, accident, or aging. (President: Two minutes. Just one more sentence. We MPs have received this publication that should provide us with basic information on the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities. It would not be bad if at least parts of this publication were presented in any of the written or electronic media.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19021	On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by the MP Ljiljana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19022	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, on the basis of Article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia, SNS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 21. Proposal for a law on professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. In Article 21, paragraph 1, which is repealed by this amendment, you stated: “The unemployed person with disabilities during the period of rehabilitation does not have a working relationship. ” Such a formulation is too high, burdens the text of the law, least of all, makes no sense and cuts with the recently adopted Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. The whole law intends to protect the rights of persons with disabilities, and this position, proposed by this amendment to delete, is exactly the opposite of the spirit of the law, making it impossible to establish a working relationship during rehabilitation. Neither innate nor acquired disability is the desired choice of individuals, but rather the product of long-term work in difficult conditions, to keep work and solve basic existential problems. The legislator has already stated in Article 12 that under the professional rehabilitation of disabled persons, the organisation and implementation of the programme of measures and activities in order to train for the job concerned and it is clear that it is the acquisition of certain skills that will make it easier for people with disabilities to find jobs and change existing jobs. Keeping Article 1 in Article 21 further degrades and discriminates persons with disabilities, who should be given the opportunity to gain employment, which would result in an improvement in their living conditions, and I therefore suggest that you accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19023	On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19024	In front of the NS Parliamentary Group, I submitted an amendment to Article 21. The draft law on professional rehabilitation for the employment of persons with disabilities, where in point 2(2), the figure "20%" is replaced by the number "40%". The reason is that the fee for a disabled person of 20% of minimum earnings is not enough and should certainly be increased. The minimum earnings in the total amount, as foreseen by the law today, are not enough to meet the basic needs, and 20% is not even adequate help to a disabled person who has accepted the new programme and entered the professional rehabilitation programme. An increase of 40% of the minimum earnings would be a help that a person with disabilities could truly be stimulated to define for inclusion in the programme of measures and activities, above all, if we bear in mind that this law is being passed in order to change the awareness of new employers, and we know how difficult this is and what problems we face both in healthy employees during their daily layoffs. We want this law to believe in the conscience and the awakening of conscience in employers and in the entire population, all citizens of Serbia according to this group of people. The aim of this law is to engage all social resources, including economic ones, to help people with disabilities in their involvement in life, above all, the right to work and to engage in employment. A sense of security, a sense of usefulness to yourself and to your social community helps to do so significantly. This is a sensitive law, and after its proposal, which we have had and that we have tried all of the MPs' clubs to make quality repairs, which is shown by the number and content of the amendments, I believe that very soon this law will have to experience new changes in practice, but should be applied as soon as possible. What's not good is that this law is not more serious, which I already said in my principled presentation, first of all, to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, because I don't think the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is fully competent to respond to such a task. It seems more like a marketing trick to me than to really deal with this most sensitive problem of our employed population.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19025	On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19026	The President-in-Office, honourable Minister Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment, in fact, points to a second group of objections brought by the DSS Group on the proposal for this law. It is truly amazing that the idea, which is good, is to form a budget fund that will deal with the problems of people with disabilities do not involve representatives of people with disabilities. It is simply that when all the laws we have discussed these days, when it comes to the various institutions that were the subject of this Parliament's debate, by the Development Fund, the National Service, here, we now see this budget fund, everything is slowly pushed solely into the power of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, including the management of the budget fund. As we criticised yesterday the functioning of the National Service, that those who are interested in the implementation of the employment policy do not participate in quality and efficiency and will not have the opportunity to participate in the formation of that policy through the National Service bodies, are now asking the question – why is there no room for those most interested in applying this law, persons with disabilities, to participate in the management of the budget fund, in spending funds, especially for the professional rehabilitation that should be the key to this law? It is simply amazing how much the concentration of power is formed in one ministry, and that other interested entities in such an important process, such as the process of professional rehabilitation of people with disabilities, who are most interested in seeing how the funds will be directed when it comes to their rights and obligations, do not participate. I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to seriously consider this amendment, to allow representatives of persons with disabilities to participate in the management of the budget fund. No problem will be for the ministry itself, which has too much jurisdiction and too much obligation anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19027	The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19028	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, DSS MPs have tabled an amendment, predicting that this fund is being managed by people with disabilities. We felt that a new attitude should be added to this article, because it would be a correct attitude towards these people. But there is another reason why we have submitted this amendment. Why? Because we don't trust you, because they don't trust you, or the citizens of Serbia, because you cheated on them, because you promised Serbian citizens 200,000 new jobs, because you promised a thousand euros in free action. What do we have in Serbia today? We have misery, misery and despair, the threat of people making themselves disabled, because they've lost their jobs. It's a real state and it's a picture in Serbia today. The second question was, yesterday, the resolution minister, who is in charge as a representative of the government, was not to answer some questions of the MPs – what is it for a minister who represents the law rather than answers the questions of MPs, to explain some remarks and to give some answers to the legitimate objections of MPs and written amendments? Are there any shortcuts to work? Where's Minister Dinkic for two days? When you have deceived Serbian citizens by making a policy of illusion, and politics seems to be responsible, and the government is irresponsible and incompetent, this policy is making us talk about these things so that the public of Serbia can see what the real picture is and what the state of the spirit is in Serbia. That is why we have submitted this amendment, believing that these persons must be involved in the management of this fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19029	On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 32, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordan Rajkov. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gordan Rajkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19030	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 32, on a proposal from the organisations of persons with disabilities, and the amendment refers to a subsidy given to employers when they first employ people with disabilities without working experience. In this amendment, we have proposed that this subsidy is 80% of the average personal income in the Republic, unlike the minimum earnings provided for in this article. The experiences we had in 2005 and 2006, when the National Employment Service predicted its competitions a fee, or an 80% subsidy for the employment of disabled persons for the first time, were very positive and over 300 people with disabilities were employed during that period. Therefore, there is a fearsome person with a disability whose proposal I made this amendment that this subsidy would now, at the minimum profit level, not be enough to stimulate employers to employ disabled persons. The second reason for submitting this amendment, which may seem even more important, is in the formulation, because by subsidising at the minimum profit level, the legislator indirectly sends a message to society that the work of persons with disabilities is not more valuable than the minimum wage. In this way, a widespread prejudice about the reduced ability and productivity of disabled people is accidentally encouraged. Those were the reasons why we submitted this amendment. I would like, using the time of the Parliament's group, to just say that I am pleased that the government has accepted some of the amendments, in particular the amendment to Article 43, which was spoken of by counterpart Plassic, who would really open up a space for people with disabilities in mental development to achieve their basic human right, the right to work, which they have so far been unable to do. I would also like to express my satisfaction with the debate, which is still being held today, compared to the debate that was held in 2006, when the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities was passed. I must say that today many more MPs from all political parties have argued on this issue. I think it is very important, because what is mentioned – the problem should be made visible and information given, this debate today really contributes to this. Of course, no law, not even this one, will change the difficult position of people with disabilities. How difficult he is, in fact, talking about this whole debate today. Of course, it's important to change your mind, but I'd like to add that consciousness is a process that's been going on over the years, and we've really had a major shift in the level of legislation in recent years. What doesn't really work out, is the problem we should be working on. However, when changing that awareness, I would like to add that this is not just a question of awareness that people with disabilities exist, have the same rights and issues of conscience, but what is very important for employers, because they are businessmen, they want to earn profits and in their interest is that they have a worker who will do the best work, in the most qualitative way and in the shortest time. I want to point out that this law and this need are being met, because people with disabilities can do quality work and they should be hired because they are good workers, not just because this is one category that is in a difficult position.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19031	On Article 34, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 34, the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19032	In front of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 36, where I ask that the number "10%" is changed in the position of 2nd point 2) by the figure "20%", which refers to the percentage of the employment of disabled persons in business entities. In the case of persons with disabilities, it is very important to increase the percentage of these persons, who are very difficult to reach employment. The law must determine all those who are obliged to hire disabled persons and the percentage of 10% is indeed insufficient and does not meet the needs of society. If we know that we have 700,000 people with disabilities, that 300,000 of them are workable, and that only 13% of them in working relationships, so, about 20,000 people, then we see that it doesn't fit the real needs and we're afraid that practice won't answer in the right way to this law. What should be about this law, when it comes to life, finally visible and visible, is its application to action. Certainly, the lack of system solutions on this sensitive issue is visible and I expect more quality changes in legislation and beyond. I expect us to be unique in this, because this is a problem that concerns all of us and that affects us and most of the political actors and the institution is genuinely interested in solving this problem, but we need to make sure that, first of all, we are not realistically able to respond to what we are talking about in a transparent manner, that this is not an empty story, that we have a radicalisation of strikes every day. Keep in mind that these strikes will bring out new people with disabilities, that the number of people with disabilities will increase. We're firing the healthy, I'm afraid we won't be able to, except so declaratively and marketingly, really respond to the needs of these faces.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19033	On Article 40, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19034	The purpose of the SRS is to really protect vulnerable population categories. I'm just afraid that an exceptional percentage of the working-age population in Serbia will slowly, but certainly become a vulnerable category, in the sense that the state should deal with the economic and social security of all those who are going to lose their jobs. However, when we speak specifically about this amendment, what made us sad is that the amendment was not accepted. We asked that in Article 40, paragraph 1, the amount of 50% be replaced by 60%, with this explanation. At the time of the global economic crisis, we believe that this category of people is one of the most endangered, so we are trying to make the proposed amendment that disabled people have greater social security and independence. Also, the SRS advocates the greater and wider professional rehabilitation of people with disabilities and the more mass employment in places for which they are professionally trained, as well as respect for the rights of persons with disabilities. All types of discrimination of persons concerned shall be condemned. We stand for the principle of equality. The SRS also believes that there is a possibility of abuse when assessing work capacity and employment, so that the proposed amendment fights potential types of abuses. We consider professional rehabilitation necessary for disabled people, and we are against discrimination and abuse that employers can do, based on the experiences we have. I'm here to announce that I'm going to be using the remaining time for the SRS MP's group, I'm guessing that's how many minutes. (President: 11 minutes as time is available to you. All in all? Thank you very much. We've remained in need of some information. We have indeed tried to participate in this debate in a certain way, considering this to be one of the most important issues. We think that this is the kind of approach that we contribute to what we're talking about all the time, which is to raise awareness, make the problem visible, and to arrange concrete solutions, so that at least we can talk about the problems we're dealing with, so that this world, the parallel world of people with the disability of any kind, makes it close to all of us, and from the edge of society we include it in the center of social action and understanding. What we have come up with are data based on research into employment and self-employment of people with disabilities in Serbia, we find interesting in the context of how much attention has been paid that year. It's a six-year period between 2000 and 2006. Honestly, as a person who observes certain social movements and certain social phenomena, I find it very interesting to see how a single problem is moving and living and how society, state, state institutions treat the problem. In the beginning and in the end, it is the degree of organisation of the state, the degree of maturity and its strength. What was received as a data is that between 2000 and 2006, there was an increased interest in the problems facing everyday people with disabilities in Serbia, primarily thanks to co-operation in all fields, in the first place, with the international community. What I have to point out is that we often reach out, when it comes to topics like this, for examples that come from the developed world. Then we're in a position to compare incomparable categories. It is about societies that have a long tradition behind them, societies that are socially stable, economically recovered, which have no problems with the state of Serbia. We have the impression that in Serbia only certain problems are being raised from the bottom of this river, which has been flowing for years and then the water, mainly, gets clouded, but the solutions are very few. Most often we try to figure out in parallel how a particular situation can be solved, but that solution does not come and we try to understand why there is no solution, because all of us, without these parallel examples, know how to approach certain problems. We hope to hear why that is and what predictions are after the entry into force of this law. However, because of the public, and in the context of raising awareness, it would not be bad to note that there are societies that have, in some period where we are now, faced this problem the following way. Belgium, the Netherlands and Sweden, for example, predicted the possibility of freezing the right to a period of up to four years, which means that if a person with disabilities loses his job, he continues to receive benefits. These countries can afford it, because they are in a completely different social and economic environment. The situation with the state of Serbia is not so, and I don't know if the period of freezing of rights in case of loss of work, even a year, possibly two, could mean something to these people and whether the state of Serbia could wash it out. Also, EU countries have engaged since 2003, this is an interesting part and should have on their agenda all organisations dealing with this problem, to integrate vulnerable groups through training and training. They also give financial incentives to employers, as well as to start app loans to start their own business. This population is directed at the largest part of the total cost of active employment measures, for example, in Norway – even 80.3%, Sweden – 44, Denmark – 34%. In Germany, they managed to fill their employment quota through flexible forms of engagement and four-hour working hours. In Poland, an employer shall be exempt from one part of the provision if he asks for services, examples of services, accounting or the acquisition of jobs from the so-called so-called so-called business. Protective workshops, and in Great Britain their products have their own recognizable brand. These are the experiences of countries, as I said earlier, which have, however, gone forward for many decades compared to Serbia, for the simple reason that these are economically stable countries that can allow themselves such an approach to solving the problem. On the other hand, there are approaches through the non-governmental sector, through a slightly stronger role of the state in terms of approaching what we should all be interested in. At the beginning of the debate on this subject is what one day looks like for people with disabilities, what her thoughts are, and what are the problems that plague these people. If this is made visible, it seems to me that all institutions will react in the right way. What is seen between the lines, through parallel practice, is the next example, which is that when the state solves problems, it does not solve them linearly, but sets certain priorities. We heard during the discussion of previous colleagues and that it is very important, when the problem is made visible, to set priorities in the poor country as Serbia is and to achieve maximum effects, at least in certain priorities. This is an example of good practice, which can then be applied in other situations and in other examples. It would be a good sign, a good signal for all other vulnerable and endangered categories of population that the state takes care of them in a specific and enforceable way. It seems to me it would restore trust in the institutions of the system. Given that I have little time left, and this is my last announcement in this special regime when my colleagues are excluded from this regular session, I won't have much time to read everything, I hope that I have presented my colleagues from the SRS in a decent manner during this session. I hope that the overall situation will serve as a good incentive for thinking about creating a constructive political climate, within which we will all work together to improve life and create an atmosphere in which everyone will live with the lives of decent people, no matter what policy options they come from. In the first place, I hope that, finally, in Serbia, parliamentaryism will be in its place and that what is fundamental to democracy will be respected, which is democratic principles and procedures, and, first of all, the creation of good political will. I thank the citizens of Serbia for having had enough patience to, instead of all my colleagues, watch only me all the time. Soon they return, too, I hope that Parliament will finally accept that right, both opposition and positional, atmosphere, as Serbia deserves. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19035	On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 42, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 42, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 43, the amendment, with corrections, was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic and Gordana Rajkov. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, with corrections, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with corrections, is legally possible, so I can see that it has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 43, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Pesic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 43, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43, the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 43, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 44, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordan Rajkov. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 44, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 46, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 48, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 50, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 54, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 55, the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Stefan Zankov, followed by the MP Rada Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Prosecution Group, Serbia-SNS, I have submitted an amendment to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which I propose to reduce the deadlines for the employment of persons with disabilities by employers from the day of entry into force of this law from 12 months to six months. The main reason is the fact that there are a large number of people like this, who have qualifications and are unemployed. In Serbia, in general, there is a high percentage of people with disabilities who are discriminated against. In a way, these are people who, along with their families and the nearest environment, have invested in superhuman efforts, depending on the degree of disability, in their education, and should be given additional support and motivation in life. Therefore, employers must firstly face the obligation to hire a certain number of persons with disabilities and then with legal penalties as sanctions if they do not comply with the legal obligation. It is important that this law gets its practical value as soon as possible, in order that, as well as a large number of other laws providing rights to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and this is about the category of population whose assistance is needed, not to remain a dead letter on paper, or that, because of the deadlines left, it is the obligation of a future government. Your explanation of why you cannot accept the amendment – due to the process of professional rehabilitation, since it is reportedly necessary to prepare a number of people with disabilities for the labour market before starting a working relationship, it is inconclusive, while calling for a global economic crisis and banning employment in the public sector is extremely offensive. It should always be kept in mind that the basic function of the state, and for this there must be means, precisely to care for those who need help, who cannot go through life entirely alone, and within that, the basic function of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is to create the best legal conditions and circumstances for such a thing. That is why I think it is necessary to shorten this deadline and I urge you once again to reconsider and, possibly, vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19037	The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19038	Madam Vice-President, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I will speak in the time available to our parliamentary group, but I will also look back at this entire session, as we end the session, or two sessions that were under way, at this point in the agenda. My colleagues from the DSS Parliament Club spoke in detail about this law and in the debate in principle and in particular. We have also proposed a large number of amendments. The DSS also has an agreement on co-operation with the National Association of Persons with Disabilities. Together with them, we have prepared some of the amendments and we will support this law if amendments that significantly amend this law, which we have proposed, are adopted. We believe this law is necessary, but it must be corrected with the proposed amendments. On the other hand, it's our turn to look back at the two sessions we've been having today, which we've had for the past month. The Latin proverb says - repeating is the mother of science, but repeating in terms of constant renewal and repetition of certain things, not in terms of repeating the class and learning on your own mistakes. We had two sessions with 50 points of the agenda. We started with the state coat of arms, flag and anthem, that is, to throw out a parliamentary group, we continued the laws on environmental protection, the laws on political parties, the laws on the Development Fund, the numerous ratifications, and, of course, we adopted the first budget rebalance this year. We've been told that many of these laws are reformable and will make things more important. It was ink on some of the passed laws, and the budget was adopted a few days ago, has not yet dried up, and Minister Diana Dragutinovic has announced new measures today, provided these are not completed, and the governor said yesterday it will not be minus 2%, as adopted in the budget, but will be minus 6%, with great optimism, and probably minus 7% of the decline in gross social product. If we had a rebalancing when we assumed it was going to be minus 3%, so it turns out to be minus 2%, then it's quite clear that a new rebalancing is waiting for us, because it's not going to be minus 2, but it's going to be minus 6 or minus 7%. The decline in gross social product of 5% means the decline in industrial production, or the decline in industrial production causes one such decline in gross social product, and all of this means new unemployed, and at this point there are 12,000 new ones every month. We are told that the rebalancing is one of the forms of savings, and at the same time from the Property Directorate tells us that at this point there is a request for 50,000 square metres of business space needed by state ministries, agencies and other state bodies. What kind of savings is that, or how are we going to cut the administration if we need 50,000 square meters? If the average apartment is 50 square meters, it is necessary to make one settlement of thousands of apartments to just accommodate the state authorities. On the one hand, we are talking about regionalisation, and we are not thinking of moving one of these agencies to Koseric, Mr Vukadinovic, or another Serbian town. On the other hand, there is talk of an arrangement with the IMF, and that arrangement, or that text of the agreement, is a secret to the MPs. What is a secret for MPs in the Serbian Parliament exists on the IMF's website. Everything that we speculate on and read about from newspaper articles, we can read on the site of the international organisation, so, among other things, that part of this arrangement is the privatisation of Galenika in 2009, the privatisation of Telecom and Aerodrome in 2010, so that the privatisation of Elektroprivreda Serbia is in 2011. It is also a commitment, if the revenues are not realised to the extent to which they are planned, and the governor says they will not be realised, that is, the VAT increase. So there's no need to divulge and guess something that's already written and something that's already known and clear. Of course, if the revenues are not realised to the extent to which they are intended, they will have to go to a reduction in salaries in all those areas where they are not reduced, as well as to reform the pension insurance system. There is no need to wait for the moment for something to happen, it is necessary for the state and the National Assembly to respond on time, to point out all the problems, and to have a serious debate about it. Who's right? Is the governor of the National Bank right, or is the government of the Republic of Serbia right and statistics, which clearly speak about trends and the seriousness of the situation in which we are? We pointed that out. I say - repeating is the mother of science and constantly needs to point to all these things. So, when the new rebalancing comes, let's not be surprised at what happens in September or October. The IMF director's board will meet on 11 May and there are many reasons why we as DSS support the urgent adoption of an agreement with the IMF and Serbia is in line with Iceland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Lithuania. In all these countries, as soon as this arrangement was signed, governments fell and new elections were called. Therefore, as soon as possible in an arrangement with the IMF.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-05-0.u19039	Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 50th item of the agenda – Proposal for a MEP OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT FOR this item of the agenda, you have received a proposal from the candidate of the High Council of Justice for an election member of the First Council of the High Court (number 119-1353/09 of 7 April 2009). You have also received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration on the examination of this proposal. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 163(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are 5 hours, and this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs, i.e. the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Group of MPs – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS Group of MPs – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Progress Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - 18 minutes; the MEP Group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Electoral Group New Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Dr Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak once, up to five minutes. Members' groups have not provided any specific information on authorised representatives, and I am opening a hearing on the proposal of the High Council of Justice candidate for the first term of the High Council of the Court of Justice in the order of the judges of the municipal courts. Does the rapporteur of the Justice and Administration Committee, MP Bosko Ristic, want a word? (No) He's not present. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, opinions were issued by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic, Mirko Munjic and Boris Aleksic. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Those MPs, in violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, have been punished by disfellowshipping the session and cannot receive a word. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? (No) Is there a word application in order? (No) I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, the application for a word in writing, with the order of the Members of Parliament, could have been submitted by all parliamentary groups, and since they did not, or on the lists of parliamentary groups with statements, have not been declared for the word, and I ask before the search is concluded, whether the Presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, or someone who did not exercise his right under Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? (No) I am concluding a search on the proposal for an election member of the First Chamber of the Supreme Council of the Judges of the Municipal Judges. After we have conducted the search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the proposal for an election member of the First Chamber of the High Council of the Judges of the Municipal Courts. We thus exhausted the agenda of the fourth session of the regular session. Since we have completed the debate on all items of the agenda of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Session, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic will then inform you of the exact date, that is, the day and time of the day of the vote on all agenda points of the 4th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Thank you.
